ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	Dear Members, Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 40th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that the following Members will not be able to attend today's meeting: colleague Anton Anderlič, Dr Marko Pavliha, colleague Franz Pukšič, colleague Rudolf Petan from 16:00 onward, colleague Cyril Testen from 14:00 onward and colleague Jožef Jerovšek. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 22. POINT OF THE DAY ORDER AND OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION RIGHTS LEGISLATION AND DISABILITIES OF THE EX-military SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCES. We're dealing with it as a matter of fact. We have 58 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Miran Ptrč. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and persons with disabilities proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, colleague Stanislav Brenčič, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 38th regular session 4. 6. Consider the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr. Miran Ptrč for consideration and adoption to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. A representative of the proposers and representatives of the Government and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the administrative system and the legislative and technical aspects. In its opinion, it recalls that the term "partly widow's pension" of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, referred to in the new second paragraph of Article 5, does not apply, although it goes on a substantive basis, and therefore proposes the application of a nominal definition such as the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. No amendments were submitted to the draft law within the time limit. The representative of the Government said that the Government disagreed with the proposal of the law and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the Government justified its refusal by explaining that it was necessary to derive from the legal nature of the pension and disability insurance system, which guaranteed rights only on condition that contributions were paid for those rights. This is a rule, but it can be remedial, so a system-wide solution is possible. However, this is a substantive decision that cannot be made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The discussion of the members of the Committee referred only to Article 1 of the bill. Most of the debaters considered that it was discriminatory behaviour of the Government, and the fact is that this is a problem of a small number of people, mostly women, who should not be neglected. However, it should be pointed out that this is actually a very small amount of financial resources, and therefore it seems incomprehensible to them that the Government, when dealing with changes to pension legislation to address this issue, considered that the rights of widows to former military insurers should be regulated in the law on pension and disability insurance of former military insurers. However, the view was also expressed that it was not possible to favour only one category of persons, as there was still a number of others in a significantly worse situation. Following the final vote on Article 1 which was not adopted, the Committee decided on a proposal for a decision that the law was not a suitable basis for further consideration under Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure and thus adopted and forwarded the decision to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the proposed law. Comrade Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Madam Secretary of State, Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Members and Members who have signed the bill ask you once again to consider whether there are really any valid substantive reasons why about 100 Slovenian pensioners should not be granted the right to a partial widow's pension simply because their deceased spouses were insured under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of former military insurers. It's maybe a hundred potential beneficiaries. The total budget obligation of Slovenia would increase by some 10 000 euros annually and the necessary resources have never been assessed as a question by either the Government or the Members. The question was and remains: Do we have the political will to resolve this issue? In order to save him, we first proposed to amend section 123 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The government considered that the change in the legal system was not appropriate and rejected. It considered that the Law on Retirement and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers should be amended. We have complied with these requirements of the Government and have now tabled additions to this law. However, according to the content of the Government, the proposal is not appropriate again. To our great surprise, we have found that this time it is not an important legal system to regulate the government, but it is finally a matter of content. In its opinion of 29 May, the government argues that widow's pensions after former military insurers are such a proposal that cannot be recognised because these insurers did not pay contributions to the Slovenian pension fund. There's two things to say about that. First: this is not entirely true, because they are military insurers up to 1. 1. 1973 They paid contributions in the Republic of Slovenia and many widows, who tell us their position and their injustices, stress that their late men paid contributions in the Republic of Slovenia until retirement, all the years to retirement and that they obtained rights based on the working age they paid for in Slovenia. Many, however, have been granted rights based on the majority age. And second, which is equally important: the rights of disability and pension insurance are indeed determined by the State and, as a rule, on the basis of the contributions paid, and, as has already been said, exceptions, we all know that. It certainly applies to state pensions that do not have paid contributions, and certainly also apply to pensions under certain specific rules, to the correction of the injustices of victims of war violence, and so on, as we do not contest. It's just that it's not possible to say that one thing is true and the other principle is true. The question is therefore neither material nor legal-systemic. It is only a question of our common relationship with a really small group of widows who are deprived of opportunities recognised by our legislation to other widows in the Republic of Slovenia. There is no way they can understand why there must be an exception and why all possible excuses are sought for them in the Government and for some government parties, so that their right to a widow's pension is not recognised. They are Slovenian citizens, they earned their personal pension by working and paying contributions in Slovenia, and a few euros with their already relatively low pension would make life easier for them, which most do not provide. And above all, these widows want the pension insurance of their deceased husbands not to be the reason why they have no right to receive pensions. So that the fact that they were military insurers would not be the only political reason that prevents them from benefiting from a widow’s pension. Because there is no substantive and material law-makers, we therefore expect a re-examination and a decision against the proposal for a decision of the home labour body so that the law can only be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you very much. He also gives the word to the representative of the Government to present his position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The applicable Pension and Disability Insurance Act of the widow or widower after the deceased who was insured under this law in the event that he decides to enjoy his own pension also recognises the right to work on a widow’s pension. This constitutes an exception to the principle of pension law, which provides that a person cannot benefit from two or more pensions at the same time, since in the case of a widower or a widower who chooses instead of a widowed pension to enjoy his own pension, two rights under the same pension and disability scheme are considered to have been realized. Thus, part of the widow's pension is recognised as an insurance allowance for two rights. The Government notes that in explaining the reasons for non-recognition, the right to the work of widow's pension to widows or widowers after former military insurers must be based on the legal nature of the pension and disability insurance system, which guarantees the rights, as stated, only on condition that contributions have been paid for these rights. Where contributions have not been paid, the person shall not be entitled to the rights under this scheme, which shall be financed by the so-called Pay-as-you-go method, after which one generation shall contribute to another generation. Thus, from the general system of widows or widowers whose deceased has been involved in insurance in the same system, there is also a part of the widow’s pension resulting from double payment in addition to his own pension. As a result of the fact that the insurance of former military insurers and other employees during the period of the common country was not uniformly regulated and that two separate systems concerning discriminatory treatment of these insurers after former military insurers cannot be spoken of as different legal arrangements stem from the specific system. The introduction of the right to work on a widow's pension after the PPIZ has met the requirements to grant greater rights to those beneficiaries who would otherwise have been entitled to both rights by paying contributions for at least two rights guaranteed under the same scheme. The government further explains that the eligibility of widows or widowers to work on widow's pensions after former military insurers cannot be interpreted in terms of the apparent comparison of two different schemes covering the same risks. Therefore, the Government does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, all those who follow us and all those who are present today. When I listened to Mrs State Secretary's words, I was actually thinking, and I have to say, I don't know where to start. I will remind you, according to the Penal Code in force in the Republic of Slovenia, it is a crime to confuse someone with lies or false promises. At the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the New Law on Retirement and Disability Insurance, where we wanted to help a very small percentage of people in our country. These are those mainly women who are placed in an unequal position, including from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As amendments to the Basic Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance were adopted in 2005, these women's widows, widows of former military insurers were released from our legislation and today they are not allowed to receive up to 15% of the social adjustment. It is only a social correction because their pensions based on the past work are so low that they do not allow for decent life and survival. The government then said at the meeting: No, this solution does not "match" in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, because their men were entitled to pensions under the second law, under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of former military insurers. This was the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the time. Let me quote him, the government says, "that the correct placement of the change is possible only in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of former military insurers." At that time, the majority of the government voted against the opposition and the billers because they followed the government's view. The proposaler, the SD Group of Members, prepared a solution, followed the Government's view. We have a solution on the bench today. This inequality, discriminatoryness, injustice will be corrected in the Law on the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, for women, not many. But the Government, Madam Secretary of State, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, today says: No. Despite the fact that a month ago, she was deceiving the applicants with lies and referring them to a solution within the framework of the second law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not actually have the floor for this kind of government work. I got a letter a few days ago. I believe you got it on your bench, too. Under this letter are women who ask the government to correct the injustice that has been done to them. It's just, not a new right, for only 15% of the social adjustment due to shamefully low pensions. Under this letter are signed by Danica, Slavica, Mira and so on. 13 women, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who are placed in an unequal position. And you know, then the government is proud that in January it adopted a social package that made life easier for a large number of pensioners. Then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proud to accept the dragan supplement, although discriminatory to disabled people. Just the ones that would be most eligible for the Draganj allowance. That's what the government is proud of, the success story. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please reconsider, on behalf of you, and I will mention the hundreds of widows who warn and ask for help because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia released them from the basic law in 2005 and took the right to 15% of the social adjustment. In the Lipa Group, we will not support or support the proposal for a decision of the parent working committee, which is negative, because it is fair and good.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Koleg Bojan Homan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we join the opinion of the Home Working Committee and the Government's opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Commitments is not suitable for further consideration. We had a broad debate on the working body, and the opinion was that the law was not appropriate, as was the opinion of the Government. We believe that there are still many problems in Slovenia that are not solved if I just give an example of farm pensions, which are also extremely low and would have earned a higher price. We feel that everything is not as bad as it was shown before my appearance by the interlocutor. The government is not afraid, the government is working. In short, we join the view that the law is not appropriate and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ambassador Majda Potrate will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the opening presentation of the bill, the leader of the Group of Social Democrats listed a number of legal and substantive reasons why the Group of Members of the Social Democrats again decided to try to convince most Members and Members to support the draft law governing the rights of a small group of widows, because the previous proposal of the Law on Hair had lost support in the vote and this gave us the hope that this law would be backed up and regulated by a matter that we believe in the parliamentary group to show all the signs of discriminatory treatment of a group of citizens and could also give any citizen in that country, because it was the first attempt to amend Article 123 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was adopted in 1999, to regulate what the law brought bad, when it began to separate a widow and family pension for those individual pensioners, which was decided by 15 per cent of the pensioners. In particular, I would like to point out that, in the case of the hearing at the home work body, where the largest parliamentary group has helped to form an opinion or has led to a rejection of this law, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly said, I now quote from the magnetogram: "The Government is based on its position mainly on the reasons that no contributions have been paid for one part. As has already been said today, it is a rule. The rule is pay, contributions and then certain rights are measured. But it is possible to deviate from this rule. But this is the substantive decision of you Members and a Member to judge whether such correction is necessary." And why do we think Members and Members of the Social Democrats that such correction is necessary? Because we believe that the task of every official and official in this country is to alert and try to exercise this right when it discovers that a group is in violation of a right guaranteeing equality before the law. And for a few more than a hundred persons who could exercise the right to work on a widow's pension, we believe that such discriminatory conduct has been established. If the Government boasts of what it has achieved in the context of last year's 'year of equal opportunity', if the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has adopted specific programmes within the Slovenian Presidency to the European Union, which are going towards the realization of the principle of equal treatment, then we expect the Government to give its opinion, however, to the coalition MEPs and Members, that this violation of some equality will be the law we propose to adopt. Why this hope that may again prove to be an empty hope, but it is hope. Because, I stress, the Government itself, or on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, advised the former law's proponents where the provisions should be corrected and we have now tabled a proposal to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of the former military insurers, which was adopted one year earlier and thus has been terminologically adopted and otherwise unable to comply with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 1999. Now's the chance. And Members and Members of the Social Democrats appeal to everyone in the National Assembly to reject this proposal for a decision adopted by the mother's working body and thereby to allow for the correction of the injustice to be done to widows by military insurers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by colleague Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Dear colleagues! President, Secretary of State! We have heard a lot about the history of the adoption of this law. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we also estimate that this history is instructive, full of deception, blind maneuvers, even delays, so that things will end in such a way that they cannot end. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the proposal of the law because it nevertheless expresses two essential issues that are considered values in us, namely humanity and solidarity. We didn't even care that much about anything else. In order to be able to correct the law in order to solve this problem, the government, of course, also indicated, but later she changed her mind. Recognition of the work of the widow's pension is already possible, of course, for a number of groups of widows, and certainly there would not be any problem here if some of these were admitted to widows, potentially to any widower. I've been listening to the government's explanation. Very complicated, very vague, hazy, except, of course, for the last statement, which says that he does not support this law. In the Liberal Democracy, we are opposed to being punished in some way for widows after military insurance because someone in the institution where their husbands were employed did not like it. She wasn't to me either. She wasn't very much to me, but I still don't think that's why innocent people need to be punished. I hope that the time of collective punishment is so far away that we should not learn it in history, but not reintroduce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Good afternoon! The proposal for a new law submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrč proposes that widows or widowers, after the death of former military insured, be granted the right to choose between their own widow's pension or during the enjoyment of their own old age or invalid pension with the right to work on a widow's pension. It should be pointed out that in the Republic of Slovenia, the status and rights of the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers are regulated by a special law. On the other hand, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act regulates the rights of the second round of insured persons. In particular, we would like to point out that the basic rule of pension insurance provides for the acquisition by insured persons of certain rights on the basis of the payment of contributions. Active military personnel, however, paid contributions to a special fund in Belgrade from which they also received pensions. Even after the independence when the pension payments for these military persons were taken over by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, he did not draw on the funds paid to the fund by Slovenian insured persons who were employed in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Military insurers are therefore included in a system which, by means of appropriate law, provides military insurers with adequate pensions. In the New Slovenia Group, we are of the opinion that we cannot talk about the fact that in the payment of pensions, military insurers are in any way discriminated against, as their status is considered properly cared for. Therefore, we do not support the amendment of the law and join in the decision of the parent labour body that the proposal of the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by colleague Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. With the Novela of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 2005, we gave all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia the right, regardless of how high their pension is, to work on a widow's pension, if this is more favourable to them than taking 70% of the pension per partner. With the planned amendment to Article 123, we have denied this right only to the widows of former military insurers. That is why I myself have been a signatory to the draft law in the first attempt to correct this discriminatory attitude. It is necessary to overcome this unequal treatment of citizens and citizens before the law. I'm sorry we didn't make it. The government got away with a good deal of wisdom when we tied the foundation to the right legal basis, which I was a little fond of in the birth of the first draft of the law. But look at him - The government has now changed its view of this issue quickly, after being satisfied in another matter, and has erred unbelievably in such a way that something else is not justified. And that, too, is pure conjecture. In the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, we gave our citizens the right to decide on 70% of the pension of that insured person who did not pay in our ZPIZ. We gave them this right under this law. However, we do not give her this little right under this law, but if this is more favourable to them than 70% of the pension after the former military insured, she could use 15% of the pension. It's just a hoax. It is true, however, that the former military insurance law was born by another coalition, which had a little more sense of social and equal presence of citizens among themselves. So, I'm sad that the government is acting in this case and some kind of the biggest government party will say, "Ah, these few voters are not even interesting to us. It's our principle that matters. These are not ours, and that is why we do not allow this into the system of equal treatment."222222 This is not correct. It is also not right with the praise we were all given at the emergency "Tajkuno meeting" when we said: "But now is the time for equal treatment of people, citizens, citizens before the law." This is a practical representation of this equal treatment. Of course, I will be happy to urge the Group of Members to fully support the law, rejecting the proposal for a decision voted by the majority on the home labour body. Also because I firmly believe that the state of Slovenia is deepening into some sort of socially difficult situation that is not written at the hands of modern democracies in Europe. After all, this comes from two incomplete speeches by the two presidents on the occasion of the Statehood Day. In any case, I am sad that we cannot be so wise that, although a handful of people who do not represent any financial burden at all for the budget give us the right to be equal citizens. But no, because these aren't ours, this can't happen. This is not right, coming from as young and as desirable a democracy as Slovenia has. With joy, I will support the law, reject the decision of my mother's labour force, and I hope that I will also address my colleagues in the parliamentary group unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Zares, will be presented by Ambassador Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, rare, rare, Secretary of State who sends you to the National Assembly when you have to blush and lie the most. In fact, the situation is very bizarre, embarrassing and sometimes it seems, or it seems, that we are not in Parliament, but on the playground. Because the process that has been going on with this law is literally insane. First, in 2005, you throw something out of a marriage and you take away some of the rights that were granted. When this withdrawal is rectified in another law, you say that it would be okay, but that it is wrong from a legal and formal point of view, it is right to correct another law when the applicants go or go to a new law and follow something, a legal lesson, and then one thing is no longer right. And it doesn't even apply at once. Who do you think you are?Oh, my God! Of course, we need to look elsewhere, a respected ruling coalition. It is easier to read newspapers and look into laptops than to listen and face this situation. It's not true, but it's literally. You have no arguments and which is a representative of the largest coalition partner, when she presented her position on this law, today said: "Even farmers are sick". But, "The government is doing well, it's not afraid." That's what we heard today in this marriage. The government is not proud, but the government is doing well. How? Who cares if he throws a law in the trash that eliminates discrimination? And that's where the discrimination happened. I don't know if you don't like widows because they weren't married to the right people they'd like to cross now, this burden of the Yugoslav People's Army or the "national army". Surely, in the Group of Members, we do not have any problems with this law, we think that it solves the problem of being wronged if it does not. Not harshly or gently, I say that it is not fair for this injustice to remain open, that it would be funny today, or that it would be rejected today because of following the instructions given by the Government or the legal position of the Law on Retirement and Disability Insurance, which it had recently given. In short, when the homework was done, when it was also said that it was not what the Government was trying to fix today, if it was not right because they were not paying. That's not what this is about. You don't have the will to do good. The government builds lighthouses, works for people in favour - but by rejecting such solutions, which are correct, eliminating irregularities that come into the legal situation and reject discrimination, it is pointless to refer to the good work of the Government. That's a bad plowing. True, there are not many of these people, nor are there a lot of money, but a very large stain will be if you support the decision and reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franz Žnidaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Our Group of Members will, of course, be happy to support this bill. In doing so, I would like to express my regret that our representative was not on the committee at the time the decision was taken. But later I realized that being there wouldn't help, because there would be an equal number of votes. However, the decision of the parent working body was adopted by means of a vote and there is no reflection of the necessary amendment of the law. The affected widows were thrown out of the general law - there their right was written before and now the government in the first opinion, in the proposed solution, stood in the position that this correction was not proposed in the real law. Now that it is proposed in the right law, the Government is eluded, probably one of the reasons why the Minister is present in the consideration of this proposal, in order to say directly that he is making fun of Parliament and that he is manipulating his own views. In doing so, I do not want to blame the Secretary of State, who probably expresses the opinion of someone else and must express it as such or think about whether or not she will still occupy the position she holds or not. I am so sorry that today the Government is showing up with imaginary arguments against such a solution even in the part where it says that rights under a law are due to contributions made, that is absolutely not true. We have a number of rights under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act for which nothing is paid, such as pensions of deserving artists, writers, poets and so on, many have paid nothing, but they do not receive such a small pension and we do not mind if they are truly deserving. It is also a national pension without a single lump sum of contributions paid and so on. So these arguments are made up. There's another problem. The authorities are aware that it is a small number of people who themselves will not be able to defend their right or the lost right in an corrective manner by means of demonstrations or by some broader resistance of civil society. This is similar to the fact that, as a result of the amendment of the Social Transfers Act, the coordination of social transfers last year lost a higher allowance for an annual allowance of more than 16,000 pensioners, and this year according to data from the Pension and Disability Insurance Office of 11,400. I have calculated that the total savings are 3 million 300 and several euros only from this freeze. At the same time, the government is saying that many others are in a worse situation, many others are in a worse position, but for those it has adopted the Social Transfers Act, which makes this situation even worse for them in the long term, because inflation can fall for more than five, ten years, remain at the same nominal level because they will not get a cent more if inflation is not positive. In other words, the Government knows that many are in a bad position, but decisions and proposals and laws coming from the Government in solutions are acting in the opposite direction from the necessary direction, that is to say correction of the position of those who are in a difficult material position. And this is about a few 10 victims, who need to continue, in a sense, unjustly challenge the right to not 15% of the spouse's pension, but 15% of the 70% possible widow's pension, and not admit 15% of that or 15% of the average if it was higher than the average pension in this country. In short, I would like to say that here I am surprised at the coalition partners, two of course, SDS and NSI, who are strictly following a governmental argument that is wrong, which is inhuman, which is immoral, which is morally absolutely controversial and I hope that a number of them will change their mind and finally support the solution that is proposed. We'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 32nd item of the agenda. By that time, I am also breaking this agenda item. And we're moving on to 23. Period - it's a proposal for a law on defence of a bill on an end-of-life allowance. Treatment is under urgent procedure: and we have 5 hours and 30 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. With us is State Secretary Romana Tomc by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear Members and Members. The government is working in various ways to improve the socio-economic position of its citizens. This proposal, which we are sending to the National Assembly today, will improve the situation of more than 250,000 Slovenian pensioners. By adopting this proposal, we propose a special allowance for pensions to be paid in August. The allowance will be paid at three different levels, i.e. pensioners who receive between 450 and 500 euros will receive an additional 80 euros. Pensioners who receive a pension between 403 and 450 euros will receive an additional 100 euros and those who receive less than 403 euros will receive a maximum amount of 150 euros. In addition to the fact that the beneficiaries of this supplement will be all pensioners who receive an old age who receive a family pension receiving a widow's pension, the beneficiaries will also be those who receive a disability pension. In addition, those who receive a pension under international agreements will be entitled. So also those who receive a pension from abroad. The beneficiaries will also be those who receive a national pension and also those who have been insured after the so-called farmer insurance, so the beneficiaries will also be farmers. Let me stress that all pensioners who have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia are entitled to this because the Government, through this proposal, wants to improve the socio-economic situation of pensioners in Slovenia who have been affected by the price hikes that have occurred in Slovenia over the past half year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law, however, considered the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to be the parent working body. This time too, the chairman of the committee, colleague Stanislav Brenčič, will submit a report to the committee. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for this law was considered at the 22nd emergency meeting, on 11 June. Representatives of the proposed State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Mrs Romano Tomc, representatives of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, the Association of Pensioners' Associations and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and commented on the provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed text. The comments of the Legislative and Legal Service are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the four coalition groups. Amendments were tabled to the bill within the deadline of business, as was said, by the four coalition members, the Social Democrats' Group, the Zares Group, the Lipa Group and Ambassador Vila Rezman. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said in his opening statement that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were taken into account in the amendments of the four groups. In the discussion on individual articles, some discussers focused on questions about the proposed amount of a single pension allowance for possible beneficiaries of a single pension allowance, intended not only for pensioners but also for employees and unemployed persons, as well as the possibility of extraordinary harmonisation of pensions and transfers under Article 150b of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act for 2% in August 2008. In their opinion, the proposed law also destroys all relations provided for by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act when it comes to beneficiaries of insurance rights. The view was also expressed that the proposed measure was welcome but too late, as it would not significantly improve the material situation of pensioners. The benefits of the law thus submitted are not so obvious to all low-income beneficiaries. On the other hand, the discussers who supported the proposed legal solutions pointed out, among the reasons, in particular the mitigation of the situation of the lowest-retirement population affected by high-inflation effects. The proposed law, as one of the accompanying other legislative proposals, which represents a whole of measures to combat and mitigate inflationary effects, as an intervention measure at least partially contributes to facilitating the situation of the most affected pensioners, not only by encouraging food, but also by increasing the sensitivity of energy sources. Having regard to the legislative and legal opinion, the Committee adopted, in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to the amendment of the four groups of Members, the amendment to the amendment to Article 2. The Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 4 and did not adopt the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors to Articles 1 and 6. The amendments of the Zares Group have become irrelevant. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted everything. Everything that has been adopted on the home labour body has been incorporated into the law's complementary proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	Thank you very much again for your word. In a single country, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, there are problems of small people, and I will say, especially the growing numbers of people in the social perimeter are interesting only on special occasions, as is the case with someone else, or only when the tragic consequences of the poor functioning of the rule of law or the social state occur. The fact is, we are on the verge of a social legal crisis. And the fact is that the autumn parliamentary elections are approaching as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia strives to obtain an additional political point at all times. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact is also that the government is responsible for poverty in the country, its policy. The structural changes taken and directed by the Government alone and only by the Government, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are responsible. This same government wrote in explanation of the draft law on the single pension supplement of the so-called Danish supplement: In order to maintain the standard of living, the Government proposes that this category of the population be provided with additional funds in the form of a one-time pension allowance." I ask myself, or point out, that the pension is a deserved right and as such should be enough for people to live a decent life. If the government cannot afford its policy, it is unable to provide a decent life for those who have earned this right, then the government is truly weak, rotted from within and needs to be replaced. Two, three months ago, Prime Minister Janez Janša said: "No, there is no poverty in our country, the pensioners live well. Pensioners have an average pension of 1,500 euros." These were the words of the Prime Minister in this Parliamentary Chamber. Today, we are witnessing the fact that half of all pensioners will be entitled to the meal allowance. How little they can bear the words of the President of the Government for a short time! Slovenia is not a success story. Slovenia today faces poverty, poor living conditions. The last polytbarometer survey also made it clear that 60% of Slovenes and Slovenes in our country live worse than they did in the previous period; that among the most endangered are the elderly, pensioners, especially those who live alone in rented apartments. The government, and I will say thank God, although too late, has come with a law that will almost give all pensioners the right to a single payment in a certain amount, depending on their level of pension. At the same time, however, I must point out that not everyone who has paid the pension and disability insurance bill on the list will be entitled to this allowance. And if the Secretary of State, like the Minister of Labour, claims that the disability is the same as the disability benefit, then I must say that those responsible for the Ministry's policy do not know the facts. Disability is indeed an addition to the pension and is governed by code 03, and compensation from disability insurance is the only right, the only source of income for a disabled person who has a disability category. He is disabled for part-time work, in short, and has the right to a minimum amount. And these people are letting go of this marriage! These people, led under code 09, will not get the right to a Dranjan supplement because of their disability, because they are unable to do so. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to work and these people only have pensions of 200 euros, respected colleagues and colleagues! [[...]] Therefore, please listen and support any well-meaning amendment in the discussion below.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	Your Honor! Good-bye, everybody! The government and this coalition pay particular attention to vulnerable groups, including pensioners, who have contributed to the pension fund in their active time and have created today's successful Slovenia. As we know, the previous government introduced a new way of coordinating pensions, which it then changed once again in 2000. The reconciliation of pensions under the law at that time would be significantly behind wages. One of the major pre-election commitments of the current government was to change the way pensions are coordinated by increasing them in line with wage increases, and it has done so. The reconciliation of pensions is so much more favourable for pensioners. Due to last year's inflation, and even more so to the extraordinary increase in food prices created and made possible in Slovenia by the monopolies created before the government and this coalition, and most felt by the recipients of the lowest pensions, the Government introduced a single pension supplement law into the parliamentary procedure. The purpose of the law is to further improve the material and social situation of low-income users, who, under the provisions of this law, are considered to be pensions equal to or lower than EUR 500. The proposed law provides for the payment of a single allowance to be received by pensioners together with a August pension. Additional beneficiaries are those who have a permanent residence in Slovenia, including recipients of farm pensions and others. The proposed law provides for the payment of a single supplement at three different levels. The maximum amount, which is 150 euros, will be paid to beneficiaries of pensions equal to or lower than EUR 403.63. These are 154 902 and this means a good EUR 23.2 million. A single pension allowance of EUR 100 will be paid to pensioners equal to or lower than EUR 450 and above EUR 403.63. These beneficiaries are 54 000 821 and will require a poor EUR 5.5 million. Those whose pension exceeds EUR 450 and is not higher than EUR 500 will be paid a single pension allowance of EUR 80. These beneficiaries are 43019, which will require 3.4 million euros. Together, more than 252 000 pensioners will be needed to implement the law. In the Group of Members, we will support the draft law on the single pension allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	Thank you. Procedural? Comrade Šteba, can we wait until the end of the explanation of the parliamentary groups? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, please correct the statement in Ambassador Alenka Jeraj's announcement that he is a member of the SD Group of Members. This is the correctness of the magnetogram of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	I'm sorry. I didn't understand. I'm the one who predicted it as SD? Believe me, there was a mistake. So Member Alenka Jeraj is a member of the SDS Group and has also presented the position of the SDS Group. Satisfied? Thanks for the heads-up. Now the position of the SD Group will be presented by counterpart Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Calm Ptrč, leader of the Group of Social Democrats. I know, and I believe that Mrs Jeraieva would not want to be in my place, and I don't want to be in hers either. In this respect, we feel the same way once. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the Government's proposal. It believes that the minimum that the Government has prepared for a certain category of pensioners and pensioners must be accepted, even though it works and acts improperly towards the entire pension generation. First of all, it makes it impossible for types of rights to be coordinated in a way that ensures a fair relationship - I am thinking mainly of the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, where pensioners have been excluded from the system of coordination, but nevertheless the types of rights enjoyed by pensioners have not been included in this exclusion and it has been that a year and a half many citizens and citizens have not received harmonised social transfers. And second. The government has not been prepared, and we stress the Social Democrats in particular, to take into account the large differences that have occurred in real terms in the pensions of all pensioners and pensioners compared to net salaries due to the changed tax system. The Government refers to the revised system of harmonisation of Article 150 of the Law. Fine, fine, if everything he claims were true, it would even be commendable. However, it is not true, and we have official data from the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, which show that average salaries decrease over all the years compared to pensions and that they have declined since 2004 when the harmonisation or amendment of the law in the 150th Article on the method of coordination was adopted. In 2003, 64.5% of the pension was paid on average. In 2004, average pensions were only 63.7% of the average wage. In 2007, because of the steady decline, pensions were only 61.3% of the average wage. Where is this government, which hopes to state publicly that, since the change in the system of pension and disability coordination under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the situation of pensioners has not deteriorated further? Where? Whether he hopes to lie to citizens and citizens or can't read the percentages officially published by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, or whether he thinks that citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, are so stupid that because the Government and its President say so, they will suddenly believe it. That's not true! The situation has deteriorated. And this time, when we find out, it would be an opportunity to put an end to this amendment by means of a bill and this deterioration. The government isn't ready to do this. It is only ready to do so for those who receive up to EUR 500. For the person who gets 501, the euro is not ready to give him even the 80 euros for the next period until the end of the year. In doing so, it is probably right to say that this difference will not only result in a single consequence. And that even the correction where the day will be will be truly only unique. From the mode of coordination, pensioners and pensioners will receive so much lower pensions in all the years to come. And this government, for the record, took the difference between the circus and 2%. She took all those over 500 euros and would never pay them back, and only one piece had been taken from those up to 500 euros. That is why I think that the law must be supported, but far from fulfilling those promises made by the Government, it is only a new deceiving of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	Dear colleagues, distinguished Vice-President, Secretary of State! Of course, the precious supplement needs to be supported. That's perfectly clear, and he probably won't be here, in the National Assembly, who wouldn't do that. We will also support it in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, but, of course, with bitterness. In fact, it does bring the law to pensioners with the lowest pensions a one-off allowance in August, according to the month before the start of the electoral campaign. This is about 250,000 pensioners with pensions below 500 euros, and this country is expected to cost between 30 million and 40 million euros. So far, of course, everything is fine and well. But with bitterness, for the law also brings new injustices, as it is unscrupulously written. I don't know how many pensioners now, but I'm sure for all those who have a pension there between 499 euros and 581 euros. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy, we have drafted an amendment that would mitigate, flatten and suggest linearly that all who do not have €580 of pension pay a difference of up to €580, from their pension to €580, and thus block this hole and, let's say, I will now say, to all those who do not have €501. Once again we have a disproportion, and whenever such cascading things are regulated, there is a disproportion; for thousands of years now, but this government obviously doesn't want to see it, doesn't want to understand it, doesn't want to calculate it and wants to hear it from people only well. That's what we heard in this one. I don't see why this is happening, but let me tell you from this place that it's actually just a patch on a large wound, a very small patch on a large wound. In September, in October, in November, in December, this supplement will not be, pensions will not be any better, but inflation will still be, so the big question is what will be covered by this. For such handball actions, in principle, we are not in the Liberal Democracy and probably not in any other party, but it is true that the pre-election period has some anti-natural legality. Some more things could be said, and other parliamentary groups have tabled amendments, which, in some ways, put citizens and citizens who have a pension of less than €500, irrespective of the source, in an equal position, and we will also support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	Thank you very much. However, colleague Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, like virtually all Europe and the United States, is facing inflation, with increasing prices of living needs, energy and food. These global trends have the greatest impact on the low-income population, and we need to pay particular attention to them. I am convinced that pensioners whose monthly pension does not exceed EUR 500 are having a hard time breaking through the month. In recent months, the country has taken virtually all the measures it can take to mitigate the consequences of global and Slovenian inflation trends. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has reduced public spending, increased children's allowance, tax burdened citizens with the lowest income and could even list. The state has decided to help alleviate the material difficulties of pensioners as well. The proposed law also introduces a single pension allowance, which will be granted to all recipients of old age, invalidity, widow's or family's pensions, as well as to recipients of state farm pensions under the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers. Three different amounts will be paid according to the amount of the monthly pension. These amounts will be 80 or 100 or 150 euros. The money will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. A lot of people say it's a pre-election move by a government that's trying to defuse inflation. In New Slovenia, however, we are pleased and proud to have a government, more specifically the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance, listening to the problems of citizens with the lowest income and a rapid response to global inflation trends. For some, caring for weaker ones is only a pre-election activity, and for New Slovenia this is the normal work of the Government, which must and can take care of its citizens. Even though this would be a pre-election move, we would like more of those who go for the good of the people. In the New Slovenia Group, we are confident that this supplement will at least improve the material position of about 250,000 pensioners to whom it will be paid and contribute to at least some improvement. Let me repeat: pensioners with permanent residence in Slovenia will be entitled to payment, and the supplement will not be charged with taxes or contributions, nor will it be counted in the price to obtain a protective allowance. We'll be happy to support the marriage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Thank you again for your word, Mr Vice President. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a single pension supplement, although it is conceptually viewed as an example of a poor candidate's approach. The truth is, in this case, a voter's allowance, which should encourage low-income recipients to trust this creation to create universal prosperity, or that a large proportion of the beneficiaries of this supplement should immediately forget the generosity of the Government, which they received through the adoption of a law on the coordination of social transfers, on the basis of which almost two years' pension benefits did not increase despite the widespread growth of expensiveness, not by a cent. And it is fair that, on the basis of this proposal, the law in the form of a single pension allowance is intended for them from the State budget at least what the State has saved on account of such a way of harmonising transfers which form an integral part of the pension and disability insurance system. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not approve of the simplified approach to the allocation of this supplement, as set out in Article 3 of the bill, and we consider it the other way around, as alleged by the bill's proponents, that the approach to this bill is consistent with the pension system, as it is framed by the law on pension insurance, because it does not. To illustrate this, let me state the reality offered by such an approach. Someone who has completed a full-time work term of 40 years and therefore unfortunately receives a fairly low pension - 502 euros - is not entitled to this data. The second, which has only completed 21 years of service and for these completed years receives a solid pension of EUR 495, is eligible for this supplement and at the annual level, its total pension income will be angrily higher than that of the full 40 years of work. In addition, retired partners living in a common household may have both low pensions, and often the pensioner’s partner has a high or highest pension benefit. It would be far more equitable for us, even because the funds allocated to the pension supplement are public budget funds collected primarily from citizens' taxes, to bind the pension allowance to a certain household income limit. In any event, it is not in the honour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to use, in the age of information and computer technology, such a simplified and firm way of increasing the limit for obtaining the right to a pension supplement. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, however, we are pleased that, for at least once, the committee I run has been able to shoulder such moral responsibility that it has exceeded the Government's narrow orientation and selfishness and has also enshrined in Article 1 the rights of those imaginary groups, as derived from the law on social security for Slovenian citizens who receive pensions from other countries, former republics of the SFRJ, and also from the law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers, which we have not been able to understand before. The recipients of the supplement will certainly be pleased and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are confident that this unexpected income will come to many people in any way. That is why, with bitter taste, we will support the proposal of the law. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will already be able to judge this action properly when they decide on their better tomorrow, tomorrow without media-supported power games at their expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mate Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. In the Group of Members, we will really support the bill, although we are also assessing that there are some shortcomings that could be addressed with at least a little good will. One of these shortcomings is the question of fairness, because the fact that many who are in a very difficult situation among pensioners will be entitled to a smaller supplement for different reasons than those in a slightly better situation. Another point that we would like to point out explicitly is the fact that in the Group of Members we are really committed to calling the law an inflationary supplement or inflationary compensation and covering all layers. In short, besides the pensioners, we are also unemployed, because we are now in a situation where, for example, someone who is employed and has a low salary, such as a worker in Mura, who has 400 euros in salary, will not get anything, and is in a very difficult situation. It would be right to follow the example of some other countries, not to believe, even after the liberal United States, where, during the economic crisis, they wanted to revive the economy and help those most affected by the crisis, they gave all households, up to a certain amount of income, one-off aid between $300 and $1200, with households with multiple children receiving an additional $300 single financial assistance from each child. In short, financial assistance has been given to all who are in a difficult situation, regardless of status, regardless of whether they are retired, employed, unemployed; in short, which is also meaningful, because we want to help everyone and inflation does not choose between layers, it not only hits someone who has a certain status, but all who have relatively low incomes are affected equally. And it should be borne in mind that those with low incomes feel much more the effects of inflation, because the characteristic of Slovenian inflation, which has moved over the last period between six and seven percent, is that it is mainly generated by higher food prices, which increased by almost 25% in last year. Those with the lowest income, however, devote the largest proportion of their income to food and other living goods, so that the fact that these effects of inflation are the most felt. That is why it would be right for everyone, including those with very low salaries, to receive this inflationary compensation, to go to work and not be able to secure some normal existence from those incomes. For this reason, in the Group of Members, we have also prepared appropriate amendments so that employees, including those in the free professions, who are unemployed and, of course, have not lost their jobs on their own account, and these people are all in a relatively difficult situation. So it's only right that we don't forget them either. As I said in the Group of Members, we support the proposal of the law, but we have prepared amendments to cover all layers that are in a very difficult position in terms of low income. If the purpose of the law is to help those most affected by inflation, then it would be logical to include everything, but not of course to simply release some. That is why, as I have said, in the Group of Members, we support the bill, but we expect the amendments that have been tabled to receive adequate support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franz Žnidaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague. Our Group of Members will, of course, without any major difficulties support a single allowance for pensioners at a time of costly, high inflation and deterioration of their material position in our country. Of course, our Group agrees with the State Secretary's statement that the Government is trying to improve the difficult material situation of its citizens. This, of course, creates a major problem because he is doing his best in a bad way. Indeed, it does not take into account poorly paid workers, does not take social supporters into account, does not take into account those who are unemployed and must survive with less than €400, where there is a border. The problem is also that it sets sharp limits that create unequal rights between those that exceed one cent. Of course, the problem is that as many as 26.400 pensioners will not be better off because the government, by the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers, has picked up a higher annual allowance and where the difference is about as much as they will now receive with a single payment and will be on the same one as if nothing happened. There will still be a whole range of others at the edge of the poverty with which they are drowning, past those that I have already counted, who must also survive with substantially less than €500. And it is not insignificant to point out that even those with 500 euros and one cents may be a few euros over, are not citizens who are in a good material position. Those too have problems, so the amendment, which offers a solution so as not to go too far but to take into account successfully the difference in income, which reaches up to EUR 580, so that this amendment should be supported and corrected. According to the Ministry of Finance, the government has saved 34.700,000 euro in the social transfers law. Now, of course, he generously returns 32 million in the pre-election period and several euros as a pre-election candy, at the expense of which all recipients should forget the permanent deterioration of their material position through the fall of pensions in the whole system compared to salaries. We are confident that pensioners will be able to judge in elections that they need those who want to incorporate systemic solutions into pension and disability insurance in the next term in order to stop the drop in average pensions compared to the average wage of at least 60% where we have almost arrived. For if this does not happen, then this process will go on to the detriment of all pensioners, which is unacceptable, and in this sense more than a month before the elections will have to be distributed to the pensioners, and they will have to take care of the long-term way of paying their pensions so that the pensioners will live their lives earned and their contributions worth living for their old years. We are counting on the DeSUS Group that together we will have so much power to support some amendments that would improve this bill to the extent that it is necessary not to be so stupid if I can say very simply, even though this government has prepared it, where we are also part of it. Even more, this law was prepared in agreement with our Minister of Defence because we contributed one vote to the committee for the referendum to be held. We have made this difficult decision for the benefit of the pensioners and that this law is before us and that is why we support it, but not because we would be so confident that it is a good way to resolve the issue of poverty in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Ambassador Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Honorable representatives of the government! Personally, I can't stand the principle of you starving one day, and then you give him a piece of dry and moldy bread, and you expect him to thank you, and he'll magnify you for the rest of your life. Secondly, I personally cannot bear the claim that someone is giving something to someone because pure logic speaks if the pension is the fruit of the past work, where all of us from personal income pay a certain amount every year, all 40 years somewhere - I think it's our money and our contribution. I don't think so, I'm sure! And I will give another comparison, in Slovenian language, a unique, school case of ambiguity, in this case it is unique that it will be paid once. But we sometimes tell someone that he's unique, too, that he's unrepeatable. In this case, I find it very sad that this is so, because colleagues and colleagues, inflation is not unrepeatable, it is not just this year. At the very least, I am sure that this law could be a law on a single pension allowance, but that it is lacking, I am 100% reliable, one article which would state that a single pension allowance is granted each month in August, if inflation exceeds 3.8% per year. If Europe is already setting countries the level of inflation that can be achieved and punished, if it exceeds it, then it should be one of the penal forms of any government, so that there will be no misunderstandings, any government, that it will take all measures, not politically, but economically, professionally, to take all necessary measures, in the short and long term, to curb inflation. Since we can always talk about inflation, and we are not guilty of anything ourselves, the price of energy is to blame. When the price of energy doesn't go up, it's all gonna be the other way around. It's just not our fault. Of course, it is not in this hall that would say no to the proposal of this law. Of course he's not here! We will also support this law in the Slovenian National Party. However, I wonder if anyone has at least listened to the proposal that such a law - namely, the single pension supplement law, with the addition that it will be paid in August each year, if inflation exceeds, because, last but not least, if we look at it, it is clearly defined in Article 1 that this is an exceptional single measure that helps to mitigate the effects of inflation. The inflation was last year, it's this year, it's going to be a year or two, unfortunately, it's going to be very high. And we would be happy to take this influence into account. In addition, I would like to stress that we are in the pension system for an intergenerational agreement, which means that that generation that is active contributes to the other generation that is passive. And thank God, if we, our generation speak, live and healthy, we may receive yet another pension. And that's the one that's gonna roll in the circles of numbers that are written in this law today. But does anyone think of theirs, your friends, your children? How and what will be the pension system then? Today, with this bill, we are starting a debate on a number of shortcomings that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They're threatening this society. [[...]] And it would be good if this law on a single pension supplement was just the basis for rapid follow-up in the field of all legislation, both in the pension work and in the part where we are talking about social threats. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Single Pension Allowance Act and hope that it will be a magnetic record, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] its content has helped others to continue their work. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	Thank you very much. And we are done with the presentations on the views of the groups. We will move on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The review of the amendments is dated 24. 6. We'll meet with three members. First, I will put to the debate Article 2 and the two amendments, subsequently Article 3 and the three amendments, and finally Article 4. With each article and with each amendment, I will open a procedure for applying to the debate. As stated in the debate, I am putting forward Article 2 and the first amendment, the proposaler - the Lipa Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. We have two reported discussers. The first one gets the word of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. In his presentation, the representative of Nova Slovenije said they were proud to have a Minister of Finance and a Minister of Labour. I'll tell you if they're rightfully proud. The tax reform carried out by the Minister of Finance has rewarded the richest. It has prevented the normal resolution of housing problems, stopped development incentives in the economy and introduced anti-constitutional funding for municipalities. However, she tried to patch up budget revenues by creating taxes on virtual people. Worse still, according to current information, the situation will remain unchanged after the proposed budget rebalancing, as it is still not anti-inflationary. Taking into account all the negative effects of government privatisation, which has made Slovenia's society even more divulged, we can say with complete certainty that the recovery of the consequences left by this government by Janez Janša will be long and difficult. The problems are even greater because the Government is not developing appropriate structural macroeconomic policies to deal with economic problems. This is the achievement of the Minister for Finance, the Minister of New Slovenia, to whom this country, citizens and citizens can be truly proud or proud. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will then link or tell you how closely these two ministries are connected. The Transfer Coordination Act. New Slovenia is headed by the Ministry of Labour. The transfer coordination law in 2007 did not give people the right to valorisation, although we had the highest inflation in 2007. But these are the people who receive social corrective social assistance from the state as the only source of income. These are people who also receive cash social assistance, good 200 euros. Does that guarantee social security? These people lost their right of coordination in 2007. A protective allowance - yes, tens of thousands of pensioners lost their right to a protective allowance under the Transfer Coordination Act, a law drawn up by the Ministry of New Slovenia. You gave them that right again in 2008. Yes, but because of this law on the coordination of transfers, the distinguished Secretary of State or representatives of New Slovenia, more than 16 thousand people, pensioners, have lost the right to a higher annual allowance. The higher annual allowance is EUR 382,97. Because of your marriage, these people got $214.75. You're saving on social security. These are the achievements of New Slovenia. And if I bring the two ministries together now, Nova Slovenija has a hand over both ministries, and I focus on people who are disabled, who are led by PPIZ under code 09. These are the people who receive a partial pension. Part pension amounts to 195.59 euros as the only source of income. The person lost his job because of his illness, but since he cannot survive with this money, she sought a suitable job with half the minimum wage because she can only work part - time. And her new job or income per month from this new service amounts to 200 euros. Together, this person receives less than €400. But you know what the achievements of these two ministries are? That this person, who together has less than EUR 400 per month of income, has to pay EUR 22.49 from his pension from his personal income tax. He has to pay taxes every month. And after the new income reform, the new income scale also falls into the taxation system and, on the basis of the income income decision, which is less than €400 per month in 2007, the country had to pay its income back to 30 euros. These are achievements, respected colleagues and colleagues. And to return to the amendment, which is very much related to the New Slovenia policy and the achievements I have been talking about; people, these are the people I am talking about, under your law, do not have the right to a one-time dragan or pension supplement, because they receive a partial pension. Although a partial pension is the only source of income of EUR 200, you cannot claim that this amount of money is sufficient for a decent month to survive. These people are the most socially endangered! And you don't give these people the right to get a so-called dragan supplement. You gave these people the right to coordinate, you gave these people the only chance to run for that low annual allowance. That's the kind of message you sent them around. And to these people today, you also take the right to a one-time Dragan allowance, which is a social adjustment, to help those pensioners who have lower pensions than any standard or censorship that would be sufficient for as much normal life. It's not people's fault to get sick. And if because of their illness, not by their own fault, they are excluded from the process of employment, actively creating income for their lives, then it is right to help such people. You appealed to the kindness of the government, who listened to people who couldn't survive on their own. But at the same time, you're missing this category of people from the state aid system. It's just a one-time supplement, one-time state aid! I ask you and beg, distinguished Secretary of State and all representatives, in particular coalitions - support an amendment that is well-intentioned, an amendment that tries to help and integrate into this state aid system also people who are disabled, who receive a partial pension, a compensation from disability insurance. Once again, because the minister did not know in the last television show, she simply did not know that disability was not the same as the compensation from disability insurance - and this is a disgrace. If you don't know, Madam Secretary of State, if the drafters of your marriage don't know who you're missing on purpose, then let them learn, give them a chance, we're all learning. Give the opportunity to realize that there are also people who cannot help themselves. By the way, I believe that you were informed, because the letter was also directed at the President of the Government, and the letter also went to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. SLS, SD, LDS, SNS, Zares - Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Even the media was informed, the Union of Free Trade Unions and so on. People are asking you. Do not leave them deliberately in a poor social situation. These are people who can't help themselves. And it is good that we have a bill on the table that will help people with expensiveness to include people, such as people with disabilities or those who are led under code 09, who receive a partial pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Very well greeted, including representatives of the Government or representative of the Government. It was said to be a pre-election law. Of course, because all laws are pre-election. This is difficult to discuss because everyone is in the pre-election period. It is important whether the law is reasonable, whether it is substantiated, what its objective is and how it achieves these objectives. I believe it is a good law, but it is a measure that tries to mitigate the consequences of inflation, especially for those with the lowest pension benefits. But I would also like to discuss this other amendment. This disposable supplement is good [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	About the first amendment, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	You put the first and the second in the debate, Article 2. First and second amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	Article 2, the first amendment, I specifically warned you, but continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Thus, the annual allowance is of such a nature that it belongs to everyone, whether they are insured for a narrower or for a wider scope of rights. This one-off recreational allowance, which is, in fact, an integral part of the pension law, is not justified by those who are insured for a higher level of insurance. This supplement is therefore more appropriate, more appropriate and targeted for those most affected by the problem of inflation in Slovenia. With regard to state pensions, I also agree that the recipients are also those, just in the previous law, we have discussed that there are still a number of categories under the pension law, which should certainly receive our concerns. However, there are certainly a number of those who have extremely high incomes - not on wages, employment, but on a number of others who communicate and exceed the amounts of those who truly deserve it, and this should be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	Thank you very much. So we're on the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. However, the State Secretary shall be involved in the debate. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to clarify that the Government knows exactly who is involved among the beneficiaries of this special allowance, and it is fully aware that those recipients who receive a disability pension are also in a difficult position and therefore the beneficiaries of the disability pension are also included in the recipients of this supplement. Of course, we separate when and in which case the content of the disability pension is concerned, when and in which case the disability pension is concerned, and when the disability pension is partial. In fact, these three terms are similar, but their content is significantly different. Thus, the disability is compensated for a physical disability received by someone who can then be completely normal in a regular working relationship. In fact, according to its content, compensation or partial disability pension has been compensated for lost income. The beneficiary of a partial disability pension is the person who has been recognised by the disabled Commission as part of a third category disabled person who is no longer able to work in his place of employment where he has previously been employed, so he is rehabilitated or reassigned to another position or may remain in the same place of employment at the time of training, but works only for half-time. For this half-time, which remains in the working relationship, of course, he receives a salary. Since we considered that those who were supposed to be entitled to this supplement could no longer participate actively in the labour market, they had already left this labour market and could no longer be included in it, those recipients who receive part of the salary and part of the disability pension, which is only called a pension, and in fact, it is a compensation for lost income, are not excused by our proposal to send to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Thank you, too. And I'm opening up a re-entry circuit. Please. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, we are under Article 2 and the first amendment. Okay, I'll try to explain it about the way the first speaker explained her amendment. Much has been said about this law, including Article 2, on the content of Article 2, and the Secretary of State has now given an explanation. There was a lot of positive, but there was a lot of negative. I don't personally understand why. But however, if it is necessary to define from this angle, also fine. I'd like to mention that there's a rumor that this is a pre-election gift. However, I should also be allowed to explain this point concerning Article 2 why I support the basic text without amendments. If there is a government, then it is this government that has had a distinct obedience to the pensioners. In 2005, this was the first serious law adopted by the Government, and there was a lot of coordination between pensions and gross wages. This corrected the injustice of the previous government in 2000 when much media support was used to say that pensioners would have more fair coordination, but it was the other way around. And now, at the beginning of the term, this injustice was rectified. And so now to say, if the government is giving the pensioners anything else, that this is a pre-election gift, it is in this case, in the case of this government, that it is completely out of the vines in a twisted and unserious way. I have therefore mentioned that, at the beginning of this mandate, the government has made better coordination, more equitable coordination of pensions with gross salaries, than one of the first serious measures. And by doing so, the government has also shown a great social sense. And with regard to this sociality, the Eurostat table or statistical review shows that only in the Netherlands there is a lower risk of poverty than in Slovenia. Of course, this does not mean that we could not be better. So we can't be the first. It doesn't say anything. But we can't do that overnight. This government has taken a big step in this regard. And don't say they're pre-election gifts or some pre-election candy. What was that in 2000? What kind of candy was it that the government then took away from the pensioners the better conditions for coordination? So let's take a look at the whole thing. If it is said that this government has to worry about a decent life, I agree with it, and I support it, so I will also support that basic text, without this amendment, because I think that the government, not just by doing so, is helping these people with the lowest income. But the basic system solution was introduced in 2005 immediately at the beginning of the mandate and corrected the injustice of the previous government in 2000 when it systematically deprived pensioners of better coordination of pensions. Now, systemically, this government has put it back. If you're saying that this government is bad because it's in system order in 2005, and now it's giving something else, yes, what was it like in 2000 when it was systematically taken away? Yeah, that one had to be bad! At the time, with media support, you spoke about how the pensions would be better and more coordinated. I remember here the then party representative who was supposed to represent the interests of the pensioners when he got so angry that we were afraid of what would happen to him if that system was good. That's what's been going on. I can read you a magnetogram if you like. This government is fixing those mistakes. That is why I will support the basic text, and I will not support these amendments, because I think they really go in the direction they should not go. But I will also advocate that more be done for these people and that Slovenia becomes the first, not the second, in Europe, as regards the risk of poverty. Now Slovenia is second in line with the level of risk of poverty, it is said that conditions are the best. I am in favour of Slovenia becoming the first, not the second, that we are in front of the Netherlands and that the Netherlands is the second and we are the first in Europe. I therefore support the basic text of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Barbara Žgijner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Well, the ministry will also slowly admit that it has drafted a law on a selective basis. The fact is, I will look at or read the instructions of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which clearly state that even the partial pension, i.e. the pension I was talking about, for people who have the disability category and who are led by STIZ, receive a pension refund under code 09. The dose of a partial pension is subject to the same rules as the dose of an old pension. So, on some level, we're comparing people. At other levels of people we share, and these are people who have a disability category, who are not really able to do 100% of their job full-time. Only part - time work can be done if it is obtained, for it is necessary to know that these are usually older people, women just before retirement who do not get another job. Even if they find a second job because of their ability to do so, this second part-time job brings only half-time income, half-time income from the minimum wage is minimized to a level that does not allow normal life. And from that minimum, you even taxed these people. They have to pay their income tax. You've even taxed these people. They even have to pay their income back. On the other hand, Madam Secretary of State, you are following my debate with a smile on your face, these are things that are not funny, this reality is cruel to the people who are facing it. And you've divided these people, you've divided them into annual allowances, you've sent them home notices that they only have the right to a lower annual allowance, even though their income is shamefully low, and that a large majority of these people have no other job, because the labour market is such that it promotes only and only competitiveness, that employers today demand not 100 percent, but 120 percent. These people are simply not able to do this, so the vast majority of these people are without other employment and have only compensation from the disability insurance paid by ZPIZ, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. I'm asking you why these people don't have the right to a one-time drug supplement. After all, because of their low incomes, due to their low pension, they made up for their pension under the poverty line. That's what I'm asking you. Why do these people with disabilities not have the right to an allowance? Why do you take that right away from them? Think again. We have tabled an amendment to correct Article 2 of your law. You have clearly written down, irrespective of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the beneficiaries of a partial and half-pension under the STIZ shall not be entitled to payment of a single pension allowance under the provisions of this Act. It's a social adjustment, it's a state aid. I'm calling you again. Listen, not to me, listen to the people who ask you to simply not live with the income they have.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me just say that, not just me, but the entire DeSUS Group will support not only this first amendment, but all the amendments that are ready and are in the process of reviewing the amendments, because everyone is improving the law. In the DeSUS Group, we are thrilled to see that several more benevolences for pensioners are now in this pre-election period, which some would like to deny, but we believe that it would be necessary for all who live poorly and who are discriminated against or excluded by this law. To this, our joy, shared with others, which allow for a few better September for a large number of pensioners, has fallen the stain that some are trying to eliminate with the amendments. I myself have proposed some amendments in the previous process. None of these were accepted, and I hope to say that they were trying to remedy this flaw, which is called pre-election, but that was not possible. The very time that this will be paid speaks of the indisputable right to think that this is a pre-election law, for we are convinced that the Government or the proposer would prefer to pay for these dradnian supplements on electoral Sunday, if possible the postman would have brought everyone home before seven o’clock, so that he would not forget when he went to the polls, who and what he had given him. And it's not that it's been given. The point is that this should have been realized in last year for all those affected by inflation. While we are pleased that the law will be adopted, we are pleased that the proposaler has taken into account our concerns that this pre-eminent gift would be paid to pensioners themselves from the PPIZ, as we are pleased that Minister Bajuk has kept his word in this House and has sought other funds by reallocation within the budget. What I am thinking about what the real intentions of the proposer are, and what I will try to say is that I will quote the justification set out in the proposal for this law. There, the applicant writes that he takes into account, in particular, the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and responsibility of the State, in such a way as to forget some. And then, in the next paragraph, it states that this law ensures the realization of all these principles and their consequences and, most notably, the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. Since when is discriminating power equal to reciprocity and solidarity, which we have not learned in college.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	Thank you very much. However, Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the amendments to Article 2 of the Law, which seek to extend the range of beneficiaries, including those who have a partial pension, the Group of Ambassadors is indeed proposing to all citizens of Slovenia, in a kind of liberal America, contrary to the basic approach incorporated into the law itself. The beneficiaries of this one-off supplement are those whose only source of life is pension and have no other opportunity to generate income on the market in one way or another, in a formal, formal way, of course. This principle is taken into account here, and I think we should stick to it consistently, otherwise due to balance and fairness we should then, of course, extend the circle of beneficiaries, perhaps even in a style proposed in some way by the Zares Group. The reason for this one-off supplement, which I believe is not due to expensiveness as such, but because of disproportionately high prices in Slovenia, specifically in Slovenia, food prices, is said to be the basic necessities of life, in fact only food, which in Slovenia is significantly higher due to high margins and the lack of competition in the market for this part of the products. If we compare these rises in food prices in developed Western countries and Slovenia, we see that there is a big imbalance here. The main reason is that large trading chains, which also have a chain of food production, also partly production, are simply raising basic necessities of life, food, raw materials, enormously raising the prices of final products in stores. If the margin is 50, 60% and is used all the time, it is absolutely unacceptable. In Slovenia it has not yet happened, as in France, where the E ́Leclerc trading chain has eliminated all suppliers who have disproportionately auctioned or raised food prices on the side of suppliers, suppliers and suppliers. We know that the price of food and energy on a global scale has been underestimated. But such high elevations in Slovenia are unfortunately caused mainly by the lack of competition on this segment or even cartel negotiation. Managerial buy-ins in such companies should probably also be financed. The approach that some people want in some way to market, of course in a pre-election sense, and to spread the circle of beneficiaries, to be even more generous, is a pre-election move. I agree with this one-off supplement, but it is difficult to assess the consequences of such an extension of generosity to the state budget. Only these supplements, which are now in this bill, amount to €32 million in one-off payments to all these beneficiaries. Somewhere up to a maximum of 150 euros. These are huge numbers. And this should be borne in mind in this benevolence of some who, with a view to pre-eminent likeness and benevolence, have also proposed it. These people, who, at least some of these, were in power at the time, with truly high inflations, have never, at any rate, corrected anything. Even the reconciliation of pensions was degressive, decreasing in terms of gross personal income growth. This is what the current government has fundamentally fixed and balanced. Gentlemen who suggest that a one-time allowance be granted to all employees and their children, the Group of Members could indeed do so when they had power. Nothing like that has been proposed. There really wasn't a party at the time, but the actors in the party really were, and they were very powerful actors. It's within another client. It can be transformed into another party; in Zares or Lipo or whatever and continue the same policy, the same approach should be taken if they have a government, and now, before the elections, it is essential to promise a significantly different, fairer policy and true policy. I will not confirm such amendments. I will not vote for them. I think that the round of beneficiaries to this one-off supplement is appropriate and fair among those who have the only source of pension survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Thank you very much. As I have followed, there is still a debate on the amendment to Article 2, so I would like to ask if we stick to this topic. And since I've seen two more hands [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[..]] Procedurally, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, it is necessary to determine whether he has put the President of both amendments to the debate. Those of us who have respected the President's announcement have not even applied because the announcement was that the debate was about the first amendment, but it is about the whole law and the second amendment in the first place. Now, interpret as chairman, whether I should sign up now, because I would like to discuss the second amendment, or not, or whether you are leading by treating us in accordance with your intention to follow the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	When I occupied this city, I was told that we were discussing the amendment to Article 2 of the first amendment to Article 2, if I was more precise, of the Lip Group. That is why I will not change my decision before the President. And I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the first amendment to Article 2? It's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	We've got four reported discussers. The first one has the word of a colleague, Bojan Homan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. Look, wishes are one thing, options are another. The government has agreed between wishes and options and has drawn up a law covering this pension supplement one broad range of people. I think this law is optimal because it's a possibility. Of course, I have bigger wishes myself, not to say that not everyone would be justified, but someone else, but there is so much money, so much goes into the budget and this is possible right now. I believe that the proposed law is good, and I ask my opposition colleagues if they are so principled, because it is the principle itself that if they have proposed that the marriage is bad, then they should not support it, but not say, "We will support it, better something than nothing". I don't think that's a pre-election candy. It's a reality. You're telling yourself how much inflation is, how many people are on the roads, how many people die on the streets every day, how many people are driving them off the truck, how many people are in the country. I don't think so. The government has listened to the opposition's wishes, has proposed a law to provide a supplement here, people would get paid one-off aid if inflation were to reduce this, but if things move forward, and then action will be taken as it does. I believe that the law is good and I will be happy to support it without any proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Comrade Homan, the amendments are a purely classic procedure. Each member has the right to improve the law, and at this point we are in the process of doing so. However, the text is by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you. The law that we have before us speaks of a single pension allowance which is intended for pensioners who themselves are no longer able to work actively to generate these incomes, so they are entitled to this pension allowance. The beneficiaries are all beneficiaries of old, disabled, widowed or family pensions, recipients of state and farm pensions, and in the past this has been omitted in many cases, as well as users, former military supporters. But I stopped by because, even on a good proposal, a person can't hear anything other than that it's an electoral candy. I am particularly disturbed by the fact that this law is intended for pensioners and indeed for those who have the lowest income, and this mockery literally by DeSUS, who says that it would be best for the Government to share this on electoral Sunday, while at the same time literally urging the speaker to elect them because they only know what the pensioners need. On the one hand, literally mocking and comparing these 150 or 80 to 150 euros for 250,000 pensioners is an electoral bonbon and, on the other hand, this is the anger of the amendment's proponents, why not give to those who are either employed or unemployed, and workers and so on. However, it has to be said that something has been given to workers, one such candy in recent years, in the last year, everything that is done is an electoral candy, and I think it was amended tax legislation. [[....]] They're talking and they're bothering me, so please, if you can calm them down for the president. And that's when the income withdrawals went down for those with the lowest wages. This was also done for the workers at the time, and even then we heard why not for the pensioners, and it is appropriate to do so. But I believe there is still much work to be done in this area. It is a shame, however, because I say, a good proposal for a law to be amended in such a way as to interpret it in such a way that it is only one electoral promise and an electoral candy, and I do not think that this is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna give the replica to anyone, but I'm gonna open up another application circuit. Because you know the rules of procedure as well as I do, and you know I could name you by name. My colleague didn't do it. She'll be in charge of mine, regardless of your explanation. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	Regardless of the electoral candy, respected colleagues and colleagues, you leave out of the law people who belong to the quota of pensioners or people who draw from the same cash register, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. These are people who receive compensation from disability insurance under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is the only source of income, and have invested and paid for 15 and 20 years in the pension fund. They are, therefore, beneficiaries of pension benefits, the only source of income under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. And only those people who are not able to work with low incomes, 200 euros in pensions, some of these people, yes, also working for a minimum wage, half the minimum wage, their income on average does not exceed 300 euros. And you let people like that go. These are people who because of their illness are no longer able to actively generate their income with work, have a disability category and are half disabled. You leave these people out, although they go into the same quota, they belong in the same quota, under the same law, today you don't give them that right. With the amendment, we're trying to eliminate this injustice that you're causing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Let me start by saying that I will support the law that we are considering. I will do the same in the vote on the amendment tabled. But that does require a few arguments. First, support the law. As early as August 2007, I gave an initiative to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to think about the Danish supplement as a result of high inflation. At that time, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs quickly came to me and told me how my initiative was actually completely stupid, inappropriate, because everything in this country is so arranged that no one suffers from inflation. I'll skip what's been going on, but look. The purpose of this law, which we are now talking about, is defined as follows: "The adoption of this law will further improve the material and social situation of low-income users..." etc. You know, that's first-class cynicism. To say that with the addition of EUR 80, 100 or 150 for the whole year, this supplement will further improve the material and social situation of low-retirement beneficiaries, this is cynicism, because it will not even replace all that low-retirement beneficiaries lost with inflation if someone went to calculate it. It is therefore necessary to say that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should consider, however, what it says in these justifications, because it allows us to consider, in fact, such a bill, which will bring something to some people, as a pre-election manoeuvre, because, excuse me, we cannot say another thing if the government has moved forward, today we are on June 26, 2008, after one year of identification of what is going on. I will not polymise with Mr Štebet, who wants to put us in the principles of liberal America, because we know what presidential candidates say to America about the social sense of US law and regulation, both pension, health and any other system. Nor will I argue with Mr Petan, who again refers to how we are statistically well placed in Slovenia in the number of those below the poverty threshold. But you know, I'm going to say that the expert who's been monitoring statistics for years and years has reminded me of my satisfaction at not falling behind men's salaries as much as elsewhere in Europe, that statistics are only so strangely presented, because the overall information is that the difference there is about 10% or below 10%, and she has done the calculation by individual educational groups and in that there is the lowest difference after education between women and men 13.30%. But they also come in at 20%, up to almost 25%. How from when you collect the statistics below 10%, I don't know. Therefore, let me not take statistics on how many people live below the poverty threshold in Slovenia as dry gold. In the case of poverty, another moment is also very important, beyond those detected by statistics. And since we are in the law that is supposed to further improve the material and social situation of low-retirement beneficiaries, and according to the Secretary of State, this should ensure that the solution is systemic, but I cannot help but point out how the applicant has forgotten and again missed a category of low-retirement beneficiaries. This again proves that when they ensure that a solution is systemic, however, it is necessary to examine everything from A to Z. What we have also considered at the previous point shows how things offered as systemic, as complete, can later prove to be in practice as having a hole in them, that they are a departure from this and that they are discriminatory. I will therefore support the proposal because, regardless of the terminology that the Secretary of State has previously stated, it should be at least so consistent in its interpretations as to hold back those arguments which she has already stated. It's from the same cash register. It is also a category of those who, with some work for half, improve their social status and do not forget the category that is not only the Slovenian category, this is the category of poor employees. And if half of them are from a partial or half of the pension after the ZPIZ, why should not these users also be considered to have the right to a Draganj allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	Comrade Petan, I had to ask my coworker. But you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Because my esteemed colleague, Pate, has appointed me in relation to my disclosure of Eurostat's data that these are statistics. Of course, the statistics collected within the framework of the European Union and the data that come in there are being processed. But it's something else. Of course, statistics are statistics, because we know that statistics just make a cut of everything and then they try to somehow pass on to individuals. But this does not apply only to Slovenia. This section was not only made for Slovenia, it also applies to all the other countries with which we were compared. This also applies to the Netherlands, which has achieved a better result as regards the risk of poverty. They had the same procedure for them, for us, for Italy, which has achieved a significantly worse result. And there is a significantly higher risk of poverty in Italy than in Slovenia. Therefore, it is not now time to say that statistics are such, but in certain areas it is different. Of course you do. Statistics are this, apply to all Europe and apply the same methods to all. And Slovenia is here in second place as the smallest level of risk of poverty in Europe. That's right, and thank God that's right, be content! Not now will everyone be unhappy, not now will everyone be unhappy, because Slovenia has such a favourable position in the European Union. I'm happy, but even if we're, I don't know, in third place, because we share third place, that could be good too, except we're not in the end. But some of you are all unhappy, and all of you are emilemying about how to find an individual who has a worse condition. And that's not good. But that's the way it is. And the fact is that we are so high in the European Union and we have a small level of risk of poverty towards other European Union countries that are more developed than we are. And that's what I was talking about and nothing else. And this data is true, this data applies to the European Union and all were subject to the same criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Thank you very much. And I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Thank you very much again for your word. I would like to go back to the very content of this amendment, which is proposed for the second article of the first amendment, and I would like to explain what this amendment would mean. If we read it, it says that the text is added "part and half users of the pension after the ZPIZ." Let me explain to you what a partial pension means, or half a pension. In my previous implementation, of course, because the content of the discussions was such, I focused on the interpretation of a partial disability pension. This amendment, however, speaks of a partial pension or half of a pension. Part of the pension is eligible for a person who, at the time that he has already fulfilled the conditions for retirement, decides not to retire fully, but to continue for half of his working time in the working relationship and for the rest of his pension. It's a part-retirement user. While the beneficiary of half the pension is complicated, the deadlines are complex, however, the one who has already decided to retire after meeting the conditions for retirement has already decided to retire, but has changed over time and decided to reenter the labour market and work for half-time. And that's the one who gets half the pension. By knowing that it is those beneficiaries who, when meeting their retirement conditions, have consciously decided to work on their own.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	Thank you. I'm opening up a re-circuit circuit. Please. We have six additional panellists. The first one has the word of Ambassador Majda Potrate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you. This reinterpretation of the Secretary of State further strengthens me in support of the amendment. If we listen to the government in our strategy on the demographic movements of Slovenia - I have recently also read about what the population movement will be like in Europe by 2060 - it is a reflection on how to accelerate decisions to involve older people in the labour market and to release those forms that pensioners or those who have fulfilled the conditions for retirement, but also return to the labour market, to encourage them to do so. If this is a system law, if this is so that, in all cases, enormous inflation affecting the standard of living of people can be expected to mitigate the negative effects a little bit, then it is also necessary for this category of people who, despite retirement, are happy to do so, because, in view of our situation as it is, it is very fortunate that someone who has already retired has been able to find a job, that is why it is necessary to ensure that the part for which he has renounced the pension is paid, but for that part that remains as a pension, he has the same rights as everyone else. Yeah, why should I lose that right? I don't understand how we understand in this country, if you're in power, equality before marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Thank you very much. However, Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the distinguished Madam Secretary with a colleague, a respected colleague and colleagues! After two explanations from the Madam Secretary, I fully understand that this amendment proposed by Lipa is totally unnecessary and does not solve what is the basic purpose of the law: to allow an addition to those who are solely recipients of the pension. Here in the amendment, it is proposed that those who do not have a pension only source receive this supplement, but also have an additional resource from a working relationship of whatever kind it is. And that's not the purpose of this law, then we should basically change, in my opinion, the meaning of the law. Of course, I am surprised that today we are witnessing to a law that gives pensioners something extra, after all that we have heard in the past, that our pension system will fall apart, that there will be no money for pensions. True, this supplement comes from the state budget. I know that. However, I wonder why such scepticism is up to all the proposals that are, after all, positive, whether it is before the elections for one month or on the day of the elections, when it would probably be even better in the opinion of some colleagues here. In the mouth of the opposition there is a constant hatred and some evidence of how the government treats that lower group of people or pensioners with low pensions. However, look, I myself have witnessed as a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, when we, in fact, do not know how many requests after I do not know how many calls, after not knowing how many threatened in this mandate to repeat, in this mandate we have adopted the Law on Social Security for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to pensions from the republics of the former Yugoslavia that they have been deprived of an allowance for assistance and service and for an annual allowance. We have accepted this in this mandate, despite the fact that the past governments have been very socially oriented and that pensioners have also taken a pension or two, as I recall. Gentlemen, it is a pre-election time. Demagogies are more than too much here. I agree with that. But let's tell Bob the beans and tell him what's good and what's not good. But not everything the government proposes, all that's positive, wants to get to some minimum of negligentness. I suggest we do what my colleague has already suggested. Those who disagree with this simply vote against this law. Why not? If you have so many comments, so many non-systemic solutions that there is a law, vote against, and then we'll see what happens. And I advocate that somehow let's be as honest and admit what's good and criticize what's bad. And it is true that, in this mandate, we are the first things we have fixed in this National Assembly, we are the pension laws. Of course, in our best faith, we did something good to correct past mistakes. In this hope. And if it was later that coordination was not entirely in the sense of what we were talking about here at the time, it was still time for these things to be corrected. In the next item, we will consider another proposal where we can actually find that the change in tax legislation has led to a change or unequal harmonisation of pensions. However, let's say that this is so much and so much and let's get the matter back to the right level, in particular because in 2007 coordination with salaries is perfectly correct and in accordance with the law. But not to speak with each other, let us propose this and coordinate the matter and move on. Most of all, I object to the fact that with some locksmiths, I do not know what we want to change legislation. This, in my view, is indeed a very non-systemic approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Thank you, Comrade Veršnik, and so do you. Do not deny either Members' groups or Members the right to propose individual amendments. At the moment, it is an amendment; in other words, it is a proposal to amend a certain article of the law. And we cannot deny this right to Members and Members at the end of our term of office. I see two procedural proposals, not just yours. The text is by the Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam President. if the colleague represented the position of the government coalition, then I suggest that all Members who wish to participate constructively in the drafting of a law may even improve it, go home and take the practice of the government coalition and return to the vote because you will write us from the government how to vote. Otherwise, it seems to me that such underestimation of the Member's mandate, we know what the Rules of Procedure say, we know what the Constitution says, we know what the rights and duties of Members are, even though some of them are probably not aware of, is then completely unnecessary. It's our duty to change the law. Any opinion or attempt to bring the law into a better form, regardless of what anyone thinks, what is better and what is worse, is the primary duty of this Parliament and every Member. But what you have found in four years is this government coalition virus, and you only come to vote, but this is your problem, and it is not to blend in with all the other Members we want and who are trying to make legislation right and good for the people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	I think it's more justice than duty. Comrade Versnik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	Yes, Mr Vice President, I do not know under which article you have the right or the duty to comment on my statements. You have the duty to hold the meeting, but I do not object to Mr Zagorec's procedural opinion. While your opinion is that it is not Mr President who usually does not. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. The President has the right and duty to direct the meeting or to chair the meeting of the National Assembly, and I will continue to do so in the future. Member Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The rise in food prices, especially food and energy prices, is felt by all. And even more so are those with the lowest income. Among them are pensioners. I am convinced that Members and the government are deeply aware that a large number of pensioners live in difficult socio-economic conditions. And such a proposal that we have on the table is somehow trying to alleviate this tribulation. Pensioners have the right to a pension. That's clear. No one's going to deny it. However, the basis for the pension stems from a longer period, even from the previous system. And we know that the salaries in the previous system were low, that contributions were also appropriate, in many companies workers gave up higher salaries at the expense of the company's better position. And as a result, there are also low pensions. However, we must recognise that, at the beginning of the mandate, this government has made efforts to repair the pension system by setting up the reconciliation of pensions twice a year and is much more balanced. However, I cannot help but say that Mrs Tavševa, a fellow Member, has a special point right in New Slovenia. She mentioned the Minister of Finance, mentioned the Ministry of Labour. I am proud to have our Minister right in finance and in the field of work. These are two difficult sources. The Minister of Finance not only deals with pensioners but has broad responsibilities and is limited to the state budget. For the Ministry of Labour, however, we know that it is a large user of the budget and that, among other things, it cares that we are a social state. I know, Mrs Tavševa, that when you are Minister, perhaps the Minister of Labour may also be able to allocate funds differently. You like to wave with checkers, but every right is limited. And when we decide on certain rights, we put a limit somewhere. He's always coming, you might say, to injustice. Some are hurt, but we can't go on without it. Therefore, I think that a one-off supplement, which we also call a dragan supplement, is not a systemic solution, but it is a one-off aid that will only allow pensioners any improvement. I agree, I support this proposal, but I do not agree with the amendment tabled by the Lipa Group because I believe that the Government has complied with certain conditions and has set a limit. I agree that she did this with all her commitment. However, I would like next time to see workers who also have lower personal income of EUR 500 per month, and some others. However, I am convinced that it is not possible for all at once to provide certain supplements, but I believe that many would only in some way, or for a short period of time, lead to improvements in everyday care and life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Fellow Zupanov only for a short time; people have the right, the right to a decent life. And this is not just about a wish that is limited on the other hand with possibilities. It's a need, a need to help people who can't and can't survive from month to month. And the government law, which we have heard, has come to our aid because the government has listened to the opposition's wishes, this government law leaves aside a category of people who are led by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act under code 09. These are people who, because of their illness, cannot be actively involved in the labour market and compete in the labour market, but receive compensation from disability insurance, from the same Mawha as Zpiz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you. The word is given by Ambassador Willy Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	A little earlier, a member of the largest parliamentary group, who supported the amendment, urged us to vote against the law. Probably so that this largest parliamentary group could falsely attribute the greatest credit to the pensioners. But of course we will not fall for such appeals. As I do not think it is right to attribute too much credit to the reconciliation of pensions with salaries, because they forget to say that the DesSUS Group first had to threaten twice that it does not want to participate in a coalition that has no intention of realizing what we have written in the Coalition Treaty. And even today it is not about realizing what the coalition treaty says. So it's not about consistent coordination. The impression that some are talking about a pre-election candy is justified. It's really not a pre-election candy. It's a whole bunch of pre-election candy! It started in January - I will not list everything because there is not much time - and it continues now. In particular, two coalition parties, NSIs and SDS, continue to mine DeSUS's proposal to coordinate transfers in order to replace them with some other proposals to be signed themselves. It is also clear from the fact that the law on coordination of transfers had to be deleted first, that our minister could negotiate a dradnjan allowance so that the Prime Minister could agree that the referendum would be held. So, one pre-election colloquial colloquial. For this reason, some of us insist on some amendments that can still be corrected in this process.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Thank you. The word is given by Ambassador Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, a social worker commented on matters, the situation surrounding the problem of poverty survival, and mentioned, among other things, that the unique financial assistance that happened or would happen would enable many, such as the fact that the lady would buy her glasses, so that she could then read the daily newspaper with the first glasses. Now I'm going to add mine, or a free newspaper, for which the state pays directly from the state budget about a million euros a month or a government party or a major government party - a million euros a month for political propaganda in recent months until the elections! And these amendments that are before us, I don't think, weigh as much as this propaganda, along with many others that we are witnessing to in this country. The problem that lies ahead of us and that some are satisfied is that they are sitting in a parliamentary seat somewhere else, and it is not worth laughing at and smiling at. And all the amendments that are, are also trying to abuse the pre-election law to actually get those who are in trouble to get something more. There may not be as much as this and other pre-election propaganda from the state budget, indirectly from the state budget. Today we are 26.6., I have before me this law dealing with single financial assistance, the dradnian supplement, and we do not have before us the 2004 law, which probably made some mistakes and then that government paid for those mistakes, and this current government may have profited a few seats. Where we've been for four years, that's the story we're talking about! Why would those who have problems with a few hundred euros a month not get such and different assistance in the situations I and some others are talking about? These amendments cannot be separated from each other. The Chairman can do whatever he wants. And where were we four years to help these people? Dr. Beast made it clear: "We have several projects to pre-election with which we will win." This is one of these projects that is supposed to help SDS in the elections. It's not nice to be a finance minister in any government, not even a minister. And that's why the biggest client didn't want to have a finance minister, and she gave it to the party that won't get anything with it. These are also the results of public opinion research. And I don't envy you, Minister of Finance. Maybe even personally he's not as bad as he's having problems. And it is difficult for him to find these few 10 million euros when others drive them to Russia in a number of ways, by the way. And we all look around, and we all know, and nothing happens. And if it had happened that the competent authorities would have intervened in due time, they would have covered this money in its entirety - what the law requires, not just the amendments that are here on the table. I will be among those who will support every amendment, aware that they will not be accepted, or none, or at least some. Maybe one of them won't go into the system. Maybe later the colleagues will explain what's going on, and they'll convince us. I'm sorry about the demagogies, but that's the way it is. We are now three months before the elections, the law is here, and if the ruling party wants to abuse this law for the elections, let's add another writer to help these people at least. And there's more to this election. And it would be nice for Members to vote for at least some amendments, so that at least those people living on the threshold of poverty would gain something. And maybe another one. Inevitably we read the articles of Stanislav Kovac, Tomšič and others that there is no poverty and that they are lazy. I ask you kindly, a shame for these people who allow themselves to do something like this - these are, in general, the professors of the so-called Jambrek Faculty - to allow themselves to do something like this if we go back to my introduction in case of what one such addition or an increase in pensions in any way in the minimum amount. It is true that this is huge in the law of large numbers at the end, but on the other hand we see how one is playing with millions of euros and smaller numbers, with smaller zeros they no longer know in this country. And in the end. Excusing poverty only at the price of food is a simple deceiving, even in a significant proportion. Last year's harvest was followed by a strong increase in grain prices, which had a significant impact on the price of bread. Far from being a percentage that would affect inflation or the price of bread and the cost of living, it was then misused in the chain, but this did not fully affect inflation and the cost of living of the worst people in the country. The food industry, and perhaps abuse and trade, were somewhat irritated. What store? Who is the biggest merchant in this country - the best neighbor! Who runs the best neighbor - the biggest government party! What she did - nothing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Thank you very much. To begin with, I have, of course, learned another surprise or truth about which our President of the National Assembly is so fond to speak, even today. We have come so far that some SDS Members and also New Slovenia have warned us not to speak at all. Members of this National Assembly! Let us be quieter because something is good and something saving, sacred and let us decide against it. Of course, it's a manner, it's a policy of the early 50s that I don't agree to. That is all they need to say is that the Slovenian People's Party, Ambassador Brenčič, voted against this once-good law. That's all they need to get me on the wall. This is a policy that some of us have survived and those that we have survived have taken, because the new time is coming, for the good, we are in previous governments, as the Slovenian People's Party have also cooperated responsibly and much more constructively than we are now. And on the basis of the great wisdom that Prime Minister Drnovšek at the time, we have adopted those poor governments, a pension reform that was not easy, which was rigorous, and today some wonder how we were even able to do so. Today, this saving government, of which I, as a Member, cannot even look up, even to the voice, is unable to do so even in my dreams. Therefore, it seems foolish to me that I should not, on the basis of the Government's proposal, discuss and assess from these experiences that the proposal for this law is weak and bad. And I don't give up on it, even to all those who will benefit from this pension income, because it's an election allowance, but it's an allowance based on a bad, two-fold bad marriage. Why? These are public funds, the funds we're going to distribute. These are not pension funds. And say, now you know what, only those beneficiaries of pensions under 500 euros are those citizens and citizens who can't afford anything else in life with their own will, with their own work than just this receipt. Let's take a look on the other side. Those which are based on the law on unemployment insurance. In this status they must do nothing by law, my dears, to do nothing further. What's their receipt? The beneficiaries of the minimum wage, which is worth EUR 420, are mainly from the real sector segment, which is practically the only net contributor to the state budget. The wall, the leather industry, where they don't even get wages anymore, everything's fine. But the country is generous, because they are in a working relationship, they will already survive in the situation we are in. But you shouldn't have told me anything about that. Therefore, the issue of the first amendment is worth a realistic assessment, I argue that on the basis of this classification some are entitled to enter as beneficiaries of this supplement. However, on the question of the second amendment, it is clear, of course, that the drafters are changing the concept of the law. And given that this law is fueled by public funds, by funds pooling in the state budget, especially from taxes, such a change in the concept is not only fairer, it is imperative that we stop boasting about what we are for a social state, solidarity and justice. This is a purely ordinary floscule. And I think it's stupid that you shouldn't talk about it. If anyone is entitled to a Draganj allowance which should be a dragan supplement, whether it is a starting point in terms of the ability of public finances to do so or not, as the amendment sets out, but it is conceptually much more genuine, fairer and also solidarityable. It is completely contrary, as the proposalr advocates, to his concept and even binds him to a system of pension-disability insurance that is literally contrary to the system. I don't know what to say. In the first place, if we are genuine and have a genuine attitude towards the truth and a genuine attitude towards the social justice of the country, for which the Government must take the lead, in the first place the Government and here the National Assembly is only the one who follows in the additional protection of the weaker within our society as such, it would be worth listening to these amendments. However, if the issue of the country's capacity to go through the state budget is thus threatened, it is, in other readings, to continue to consider the law with ease or appropriate entry for the amendment of the concept so laid down. But the truth is different. This government, which has oh and oh to do in this pension mandate, has made pensioners, the ones with the lowest benefits, literally dead cuts. I have warned in my proposal for a law on the coordination of social transfers that it is absurd for us to go to coordinate the basis for eight additional pension and disability benefits, as proposed. I argued that all pension benefits, which also receive additional rights from the PPIZ, would go back and that was what happened. And the "grow" of funds currently released by the state budget is these funds, whether we admit it or not. It is fair and even expected and desirable for a serious government to admit a mistake at some point, as well as to make a critical decision, and to try to correct it for the benefit of citizens and citizens. On the other hand, what some expect is that Member Brenčič will not look at the table, he will not even look up, let alone out of his behaviour and beliefs, to discuss some of the proposed matter. I'll discuss it! The two amendments are both extremely appropriate and necessary if we are a genuine institution such as the National Assembly. And with such a product as the Government has presented to us, the Government does not deserve another as little earrings and let it repair its product. This is the only fair and correct thing to do if we have Members in this country still have some pride and moral inspiration, with all the speeches that confirm it all, the situation as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Thank you. I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article? Yeah, I'm opening the application. Mr. Barovich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All the amendments, these two and the others, have content. This content points to something. We know well that the amendments will not be accepted. But those of us who say yes to the amendment will thus draw attention to the content of this amendment and point out that there are other people who need help. In fact, I don't know if anyone has said it today, but I have examined five times whether it is possible in the country of the Republic of Slovenia with 2 million people living with 250,000 pensioners under 500 euros. If we add only 250,000 more who live the same way under a certain edge, but who are still employed or other categories, we come to a quarter of the Slovenian population to live so poorly. This country is not poor. But I'm a little freaked out because it's not a small number, it's 250,000 people. So by confirming the contents of the amendments, we will warn, I stress again, here I will not burden the governments, the next that will rule that there are still problems in this country, and at the end then I promise not to call again. So we will support all the amendments - I said why - today we are talking about a bill on a single pension allowance. We are talking for five hours and we are talking about the fate of 250,000 pensioners, the sums for the whole year 150, 100 and 80. There is another category of people who also have a one-off supplement, but we have never adopted a law, and we never discuss it. This one - time supplement is given to them nicely each year, and they are not entirely poor and yet do nothing useful. These are members and members of the various Supervisory Boards and Committees who receive one-off add-ons for their presence at the meetings of the Supervisory Boards and Supervisory Boards and for them to freeze where they do not see or cannot see what is happening. But we don't talk about it, we don't discuss it, it's in itself reasonable, and remember, 32 million euros is distributed by the top thousand members of the Supervisory Boards and the Supervisory Boards, not 250,000! And here we are discussing, politicizing and arguing for 32 million euros for 250,000 people for five hours, and there we are silent. Every year, gentlemen in the Supervisory Boards gather, cash 10, 20, 30,000 euros in their pockets for the week and go. But we've done it quietly right. They say they deserve it. Why is that? However, we cannot say yes here and improve the addition of the EUR 4 million from the referendum. Because there were fewer women and gentlemen in the referendum than there were those we are talking about. Fewer people attended the referendum, such as pensioners living below 500 euros! And instead of giving that money and giving it to these social layers that we're going to figure out, because if we figure out here, we're going to figure out how many of these poor layers there are, and we're going to solve the issue. By amending the amendment, we will draw attention to these remaining problems. Otherwise, I'm going to make another great proposal, and I'm going to put it again; let's call people living on the edge of poverty in the supervisory councils and supervisory committees. They'll at least get some kind of supplement. It will be quiet anyway, like those who are now cashing 10,000 euros and more.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representative and representative of the government welcome. So all these amendments, which aren't hard to understand, have one common point between the first and the last. This is if the government has decided to open a state treasury and give this one-off allowance to pensioners with pensions of less than €500, then let us give the opposition something; let us propose something more. So, nothing new in this National Assembly. Every time the government came up with a bill setting out a right, even more was proposed, and since the elections are coming up, it is a very fine topic for our debate, let's say more. This is done by all these amendments, including these two to Article 2. I must immediately say that I will not support them, these amendments, because, in fact, the Government has created a proposal based on the real budget options, which we Members, of course, want to upgrade in their own accord. This is not only by members of the opposition, but also by surprise by fellow members of the government coalition. And I strongly disagree, colleague Brenčič, with someone from New Slovenia telling you not to speak. You may say this, but it is not appropriate for one member to say that another member group told him not to speak! Let's have some fun! There's a place to talk! You speak as much as you want, but the reality in this country is what it is. And I'll tell you, in 1990, when the Berlin Wall fell, the relationship between the East German brand and the West German brand was 1:7. So seven times better standards were in Western Germany, and the country that was in the same country was divided in 1945; only one was run by communists and the other was not led by communists. And the whole east block was cremated because of this, all the Eastern European countries, because they were led by Communists who could not rule or destroy tactics; and they were fortunate enough. That's why this story about socialism, the tax-free system, has collapsed. It fell like a house of cards, a story built on sand, and came a little stronger storm and it completely collapsed. And we, ladies and gentlemen, cannot make up for this in a few years, we cannot. With us farmers, there was no way that they could pay their pension bills, they could not pay, and others would know by which year they did not. Today, of course, this country has decided to grant them a pension for farmers, and we have a system where what we cannot guarantee from the PSI is provided from the state budget. And since the number of unemployed is decreasing, as more and more people are employed and paid in the PPIZ cash register, it is possible to save so much and so much in the budget. That is why the balance needed from the pension budget has also decreased. And our TV POP TV reported to the Slovenian public: "In the National Assembly, the most difficult was carried out by pensioners because the National Assembly reduced pensions by €35 million." This is a pure lie, and if the president of the National Assembly speaks about the truth, then the truth would be something other than what was in the report. And I'm gonna lie to this lie, as long as I have this option, I'll always stop because you can't tell a lie like a lie. And it is true that for the first time since we have a independent Slovenia, but since we had a saving Yugoslavia, some of you have been very committed to creating a surplus in the state treasury for the first time, despite the fact that taxes have begun to decline. And if not, you don't agree that they've gone down, he's definitely going down and he's going to go off with the next year's salary tax. And if the country gets less through the taxes in the cash register, then of course it cannot create on the other side of everything because some would like and what some would like to show as their'reg' work, that this is some of your proposal and that you are very much for social and that you are very worried about poverty and so on. Of course, poverty is present because all countries are dealing with it; but that Slovenia would be as unsocial a country as some of you want to talk, and that is simply not true. I can tell you from some other angles. We have 230 social housing units in our local community. I don't know how many of them there are in Slovenia, how many people live in social housing, I don't know how many people don't pay for kindergarten or those 10%, not more than 20 of the price. Children get a child's allowance, we drive them to school for free. If they're from socially endangered families, they have free lunch. In high school, we introduced a funding system for student diet. How our health system works is a lot worse in which other country is worse than us when you can get this and that on the guide and medicines for free and so on. When we put all this together, ladies and gentlemen, and look at all this, then we can actually understand that we are a social state and that we are trying to create the best opportunities for our citizens and citizens. All of this needs to be looked at. I welcome this decision that one part of the budget will go for this pensioner allowance. And I can tell you that our farmers are pensioners who have been used to working hard for a little money all their lives, too. And if there are any options, it will be possible to repair or at least accept in the coming years the pension to be aligned with net salaries, which is what pensioners are now working on. But they always, we all know, aligned themselves with gross wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Comrade Sok, I know you're here a little later, but Comrade Veršnik was the one who said the MPs weren't supposed to talk when the government suggested something good. So much for information. Whenever I've heard the story of the pre-election candy, the pre-election candy, I can also call it pre-election charity. And the fundamental question that we have to ask ourselves, Members of Parliament, is why it is necessary to give pre-election charity to someone. Why have we not created a situation under this government in four years that would lead to the fact that pre-election charity should not be given to people? And why is it that we give preeminent charity only to a certain segment of people? Perhaps because of the elections, perhaps the government coalition is also recruiting DeSUS voters; but this is only a rhetorical question. I wonder what the difference between getting 300 euros through a pension or getting 300 euros through a salary is, you always have 300 euros, regardless of prices. You spend the same amount in the store, if you get over pay, you have to feed, probably, another mouth. For example, one Mrs Jožica from Paloma gets 420 euros, and she has two more mouths to feed. Why doesn't she get it if the government has already decided to share pre-election charity? Because of the prices I've heard, not because of inflation, because of prices! And the second question I ask myself is: who caused or whether the Government was unable to regulate these prices within four years? Then it's a bad government! Then we have one big problem in our country, which is called the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and has to be replaced if it has not been able to do so. As far as the first amendment is concerned. You know, as much as we spent on the referendum - and at the same time, my colleagues in the coalition, I sincerely congratulate you for having succeeded, you have gathered 10% of the people, wonderfully - you would have spent less money if you had included the people in the first amendment! We would spend less money on the state treasury than we gave for ties when Slovenia chaired the European Union to feed those people who are defined by the first amendment. These are comparisons. Why can't you tell people like that? And when you say that this law is not pre-election stew or candy - well, no one believes you! It's like I said, the whistle turns chocolate, and the sales of Milka in the country are going to go up. No one believes you! Be honest once, and people will believe you, perhaps even give you another voice. And let them know that the referendum has cost more than the national cash register of the people we add in Article 1 of Lipe in the first amendment of Lipe. Don't talk nonsense, please! Not to mention that this is now a big move by the Government, which did not happen in 2005 - no, it happened in 2008; it did not happen in 2006, 2007 when prices went crazy in this country, when everything went wrong, it did not happen then - no, it happened today or it will happen today, it will be paid just before the elections, but we know why. And if your vote is worth 70 euros, give it to everyone in this country who needs it, not just a certain segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-worker! This is amazing, for man will expect today's debate to be at least a little bit in this empty atmosphere, because yesterday was the greatest public holiday. But we are already able to produce even if the lowest blows are necessary, and we are already able to embarrass the country and make fun of the presidency and so on. But, God help me, that's just the way it is in this country. And more - I'm sorry, I have to say this here, but it's not about the amendment. How can I be a calm and satisfied citizen today, but when I find out an hour ago that a newspaper house criticises the author of the publication of a card on the day of statehood on the website of a magazine and the editor writes to the author: never do this again! Ladies and gentlemen, "quo vadis", Youth and Monitor Magazine. I have always praised her from a professional point of view as a computer scientist that we have such editors, ladies and gentlemen, I do not care that we celebrated our birthday yesterday. It is therefore prohibited to publish on the website a greeting card on the day of Statehood. This is amazing and I checked, none of the Youth editors is a member of New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party. Looks like we're going to be celebrating our senior year in this country not at 18, maybe 21 years old. However, I am pleased that, despite everything in Slovenia, intergenerational dialogue is relatively good. And I am sure that the active generation will always be able to listen within their means to those who created this country when they were active and are now retired and in the so-called third life period. It is necessary to pay very close attention to these people who have actually done much of this Slovenia, and we can be proud of that. I do not own this law as a coalition member, but I will gladly vote for it. These 32 million euros or how much financial effects are or will be a financial outflow from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for our pensioners, this is not what we have created here, in part already, 90 of us. This was created by Slovenians and Slovenians, employees. And it is good that the Government has found that, if there were no possibility, certainly this law would not be - that, under the possibility, once again, yes - change, at least with the eyes of the Members, as far as I am listening to the debate. But you know, some 80 euros means a lot. We've just had a heart attack, we've had inflation, it's happening in Europe, it's happening in a world that's certainly something negative for humanity. The only thing I think is positive is that we will remember our grandmothers who taught us how to respect bread: if a piece of bread falls on your floor, pick it up and kiss it. In recent years, let’s face it, we have not respected this bread. The European Union does not, however, have rules to impose on Member States the uniform regulation of a single annual allowance for recipients of minimum pensions. However, this practice, annual in Portugal, was in Hungary in 2002, is in Italy and I do not know if they have elections every year in these countries. Maybe they're a little more common in Italy. The country has committed itself to mitigating the negative effects of inflation this year by adopting legislation in this house of around €150 million. Now, if it's change - I don't know, like who's targeting these things. But once again, this has been created by citizens and citizens of this country. Nobody else! And thank God that we are doing well in this regard, and I will say once again, thank God that we have such a good, economic growth, which is actually twice the average of the European Union, and that this shows that we will be able to get close at least for a time if we do not reach the most developed European countries, but we know that we are behind for about 50 years. We know that. What I said about the 150 million is not fiction. This came through income relief, through an increase in family allowances, children’s allowances, etc. So it's not an invention. I do not mean to mention, as Madam Honourable colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who I must say here, is wasting his normal demagogy and his truthfulness in the footnotes, proving by misleading the entire Slovenian public, the National Assembly, with the two promised bills that she sent to the Prime Minister; the Prime Minister says she is still waiting for those two positions to be obtained at that time, and I have asked you to send them to me. You said you would, and you still haven't come. I have no reason not to believe the Prime Minister. So it seems that in this country probably the only Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš is the only perfect person. The 1st Amendment to Article 2 has been studied in the Group of Members and we have decided that our support will unfortunately not be received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you very much. If anyone, then no doubt you, Comrade Horvath, should know that lying is a sin and that is a sin. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As unfair as you've come to me and consequently to the people who participated in the poverty warning action, it's so unfair that I can say only - shame is easy for you! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Stab, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, I've already discussed these two additions to Article 2. Again, I am speaking for some interpretations of the debaters before me. First of all, I would like to say that I object to both complements. First, for a simple reason, since the beneficiaries of this one-off allowance should also be those who have reached the age pension conditions, this retirement pension has been partially or semi-retired and have gone to work in the real sector or perhaps there is a member of such a category. I believe that the fairest and fairest criterion is who is entitled to this supplement. The government's proposal is all those whose only source is the pension. Even more controversial, the proposal was complemented by the Zares Group, which simply stated that it extended the beneficiaries of such an allowance to all employees, while, of course, receiving such or different pensions, comparing it with the Bush government's measure, which sought to boost economic growth, the readers - to increase consumption. Typical American action, of course, depending on what people will do with that money. This depends on either greater competitiveness of the economy or economic growth. In Slovenia, inflation has been at a low level of 20% over the last four years. Remember when even deflation was a negative inflation? Inflation is measured in ratios, comparisons on an annual level or on monthly levels and, of course, forgets how it has moved over the years. But the fact is that inflation was less than 20% and the average age pension increased by 21% in the last four years. That's real data. And those of us who are a little older and lived in the '70s, '80s, we know that monthly inflation or a drop in value, I think at the time, the dinar was about 20 to 30 a month in the ranking of 20%. And we rushed and speculated and hunted the stamps so that we didn't lose the value of the money we earned in the dinars. But let's just leave it. Today it does not matter what we have achieved in these seventeen years of the independent state of Slovenia. It doesn't matter what the government did. It is important that this kindness is tried in every way without an assessment of how much it costs - in this case, taxpayers. For this one-off allowance, which is intended for all those who live solely on pensions, this one-off allowance comes from the state budget. I don't think anyone here has tried to restrict anyone's speech rights. In fact, we are all discussing other aspects of these two amendments to Article 2 and no one has tried to take a word from anyone, as the president of the Committee on Social Affairs, the family, took it from me when I discussed this same law and simply took it away from me. But it's okay. The point is, the debate is ongoing, of course everyone can express themselves at any other time. I agree that it is also necessary to be critical of the Government's proposals and to discuss them freely, which is why this Parliament is. But it may be very interesting and strange to me, too, that something that has been agreed between the partners and confirmed by the Government is then tried to reject in its entirety. Permissive of course, and it is welcome to discuss this. Because the government isn't that last actor. But at least in some way we should try to understand the approach and the way in which this problem has been resolved by the Government, which we have also agreed on and discussed by the coalition partners. It is always possible to give more, to be more likeable, to be more selective. But given the high rise in food prices, especially in Slovenia, I must say that this increase is significantly higher than in other comparable countries with which Slovenia is compared and whose average national income is reaching. We have almost 90% of the EU average already reached. The rate of poverty in Slovenia, measured by Eurostat, not by anyone, Europe according to its methodology, is second only to Slovenia from the least degree of poverty, which is the criterion of not reaching 70% of the average income in one country. Thus, I think that this supplement is due to the enormous increase in food prices in Slovenia, which is not due to the prices of basic food products, but because of all other aspects, the lack of competition on this part of the market in Slovenia, where foreign trade chains actually do not help much with a variety of discounts, is simply the right approach and is intended only for those who have achieved all the conditions for a pension and do not give up this pension in a way that generates income also through work, business participation and labour on the market. I will not complement these two, and I hope that we will continue the debate quickly to the others until this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Šteba, I am glad that I will not have to take your word as Chairman in the working body. However, if you remain in Parliament, I am sure that there will be many other presidents of the working body, if you act as you do in this mandate, on the basis of the conduct of the meeting under the rules of procedure. And I'm glad I won't take it from you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I will support both amendments to Article 2. Whether I will discuss Article 3 or not, I do not know, so now I will also say that I will support the amendments to Articles 3 and 4. Not because, dear colleagues and colleagues, they firmly believe that each one of them is completely imaginative, but because I firmly believe that they are conceived at least as far as the law is concerned. And today, from your debate, which I am very pleased to learn, I hope to say, the facts, because at the end of the day you and your fellow Members spoke about these. First, the debate between SDS Members and DeSUS made it clear that it is one of the purposes of the debate and the law to which to credit the problem of pensioners. Whether only the SDS or DeSUS, given that the proposal for a law is the result of an agreement reached by the President of DeSUS and the Minister of Defence with the President of the Government at the expense of another law or referendum, which was later announced to the SDS Member by vote or vote. Please don't tell me I'm not telling the truth. You told your colleagues at this session here today. It's possible, is it very moral, or is it very nice, another question. The second thing Mr. Veršnik told me, at least. He didn't take my word, but he said, "Why are you putting amendments, vote against." But that's what he said, and he wanted to say that he wanted to give us the opportunity to have us or that the President of the Government in eight years' time a statement from the vote about some completely different thing pulled out and read, who voted for what, who didn't, and that we would be able to believe that you are guilty of some condition that exists then or today. I do not think this is good, and this is the next reason why I am very happy to have this debate and for which I will support the amendments. Perhaps we will come to realize from the amendments that are not ideal, that marriage is not good and that it is possible and needs to be corrected. I believe that many of the amendments that were tabled to the committee were not accepted, but were subsequently supplemented, but wanted to show something else. It was desirable to show that if we opted for the exclusive right of pensioners, it would be possible to find better solutions to ensure greater fairness of this arrangement - and this ladder was rejected. It has been shown that if we are talking about pensioners and we recognize that, in the difference between net salary and pension increases, there is a difference - and statistically no one can "dispute" her, the one who is statistically "disputing" her, but who is not telling the truth - then it would be right if we wanted to eliminate this anomaly so as to systematically incorporate it into the law, but not fix it as a one-off benefit, because this one-off benefit will have some minimal solution for the next few months, but it will reduce the base for all the following years. And some of us felt that this was wrong and that the government should think about it. Others have also pointed out, including today, that it is necessary to consider whether pensioners are the only category that deserves to be settled on these issues, or whether some categories of employees who receive salaries even lower, even though we have increased the minimum wage for a small amount, have the right to receive this. All of this is worth talking about and I will therefore support each of the amendments to open up an opportunity for the government to consider this bill. For I think it is imperative that we know something else today: these changes and this law is coming to pass, regardless of how much the SDS and DeSUS debate is, but it is because the government has made unacceptable decisions itself. Among them is certainly the most important law on the coordination of social transfers, because we all objected to it, at least from the opposition, and because it will probably not be possible to say that we did not want to and that we have already warned about what will happen, and we were told: "Nothing will happen. It's a fair solution." It was not fair, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it meant a significant reduction in social transfers for a large circle of people. Not for pensioners, for pensioners, but for certain pension and disability benefits as well. The second was all the warnings we gave, and colleague Majda Potrat warned them a year ago and more that we are still in a situation in which inflation is high, where inflation threatens the social situation of certain groups, where food prices and basic living needs are particularly rising, and the government has ignored those with the lowest income. Even more, she has ironied all these comments - and in this way I also understand the debate between our colleague Žgajner and the President of the Government; the emphasis was on whether an individual can really live with minimum amounts of pensions, benefits, wages and the like, but not in who has officially received or not, can also be a little invented or metaphorically said, and who is willing to think about it. For the government must think about the system, not what someone is willing to give out of his honesty or broadheartedness. Respect for everyone who gives generosity to someone, but if he is the President of the Government, he must also think and care for a systemic solution. That's why I don't accept what was said today. Today, let us give what is proposed to address the current situation, but if inflation continues, we will once again give that duty another time. No, the government is responsible for regulating the system. And to regulate the system, ladies and gentlemen, this law, which is now proposed, means harm, not any solution. Therefore, think about the additions, because otherwise we will all vote in favour of this law, but everyone knows why we vote for it to correct everything that this government has proposed, a year or half or two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u114	It's still an interest, so I'm reopening the application. Mr. Veršnik, you have not been summoned. Please report to the debate. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u115	Thank you. I've already discussed Article 2. But since the debate was only about the first amendment, I am now calling for the second amendment. I would like to point out that it is also possible to talk about citizens’ feelings as family feelings. And there's a black sheep in every family, if that's what we're talking about. But if we want to be a family, then we need to make sure that all members of this community have roughly the same options. And what I reiterate is that such an adopted law, which deals only with a single Danish pension allowance, does not solve a bad situation for many others, which can be classified either as poor employees or as recipients of social transfers or as insurance rights under the Unemployment Insurance Act, the recipients of the unemployment benefit. Therefore, consideration should be given to those whose income is still significantly lower than some who receive truly low pensions. I am particularly concerned about this category of people because it must be counted that they are probably also in that age period where other family members are bound. If it is employees, then it can certainly be affected by their family members. And this morning, I listened to individuals’ comments about whether or not the children would be able to go on vacation. And the proportion of those who won't be able to go on vacation is one third of the respondents. If this is a representative sample, however, this is a high percentage of those who live in such a way that they cannot fill their earned free time in such a way as to prepare well for active work or schooling in the second part of the year. The question is whether public finances are able to endure what colleagues from the Zares Group propose. But I'm sorry, then I don't understand all the complications we're hearing here, that we have a budget surplus, how well we're doing and everything else. What Eurostat intends to do depends on what the state sends as information. And there have already been some findings for a country that is not well informed, I think that Portugal and Greece have ever been caught up in not sending relevant data. And what some institutions are also pointing out in our country might happen for some things also in Slovenia among those who do not send exactly the most accurate and reliable data. But these are things that you should ask someone else about, what about the beautiful image of this country. But it was said that we won't be the greatest, we won't be the strongest, but we can be the best. I'm not going to investigate the authority now. But if we want to be the best, then we can't judge the solution and the legal solutions after what was once in another system, but we have to ask ourselves if the current solutions are such that this is the way we want to go, and the goal that we want to achieve with such solutions is really attainable. And I say that this law is certainly not on the way to the best because it is not socially sensitive. We have adopted in the National Assembly in this mandate some very restrictive laws that speak of the category of sensitive citizens and citizens, those who, I think, are vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens, we have always called on them to do their duties first and then to ask about their rights. Yes, let the state also consider whether the duties of all citizens and citizens have been done in the same way. Not only to the Slovenes and Slovenes, I'm stressing in particular. The state budget is also supported by those who are not Slovenian nationalities, as well as those who are not resident in that country, but who are coming to work in Slovenia and allowing us to gain something into the state budget by doing the work they are doing. And I would expect proposals from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to follow these principles of justice, equality and solidarity to the full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will in any way support both amendments to Article 2. I must say that the interpretation of the Secretary of State, when it comes to a partial or a half pension, is true in what she said, and the problem in this law is that those who receive a partial pension from Germany or America may receive 5,000 euros, but for that part of the pension they receive from our system, they will receive this Dragan supplement. I and in this sense, this excuse, when it comes to our people, those who have a partial pension here, fraud or non-reality, is unrealistic arguments and therefore I reject them. With regard to the initial purpose of the law, it was stated that this precious allowance would be given to pensioners from the pension register. And if that were the case, then I understand, it would be understandable that we insist on getting the Dragan Supplement only to the pensioners. Since then, when we have agreed that this will come from the taxpayer's money, it is not fair for only poor pensioners to receive this allowance, which is what we all agree on, but we should also think of other poor people, who are about as many. I mean all employees with less than €500 net income, I mean social supporters, those who are unemployed, have benefits and so on. And we simply do not want to admit these to those who are materially threatened. So by the State no, i.e. the executive branch of power, rather than by the two coalition parties, who insist on a poor resolution of the proposed law. And in this sense, the obvious to us who are attacking this are ugly and unfounded. As regards the funds themselves, I have already mentioned in my first recital that savings at the expense of the social transfers law are even slightly higher than that amount, so the state gives nothing but returns, but again only to some, from this savings what it took last year with the freezing. As for the readings to me when I was talking about candy. Yes, but where were you last year, gentlemen, when the auctions came and it was the inflationary loss of those who, for example, had EUR 400 at least EUR 50 per month to raise food? I'm not that smart, the economists have calculated that. In order to encourage food, these people were deprived of at least EUR 50 per month each month, which means that this supplement will only be covered for three months for last year. All this year's loss of inflation is a hole in which no one will be able to help themselves with this supplement. Of course, we support that. As regards the foreign practice mentioned. Of course, there is also foreign practice in dragnet supplements, but not such that only some poor people get it. But they saw who hath the least, and set the border, and all of them shall have it. Everybody. Not just the chosen ones, like the pensioners, but the rest of them in the country. In America, I'm going to say one thing, fail. It was thought that this would trigger economic growth, and in fact this Dragan supplement was invited by people to cover debts mainly on the account of these debts on the account of apartments, to buy real estate and so on. As for the backlog of pensions, when everyone was talking about how we reconcile them with wages. That's just not true. Those who say that they have not read the law do not know what the coalition contract says that did not come true as recorded there. And that's why they're telling the truth and deceiving people. We have been there, and yet we admit that they do not comply with the salaries, which is why we also support those amendments that are trying to correct this failure of our joint work in this area with 2%. The credit for this law will come from everyone because they will all support it. It is due to the fact that he will be weak and will not take account of all the poor, but from the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Madam Secretary of State and honourable Members. I truly regret hearing today's debate on this, in my opinion important, the law, where it is possible to detect many unjustified criticisms, instigations, demagogies and also deceptions to the public. I think that this should not be the goal of any of us, and I also believe that this law will be supported by all of us, and also thanks to the fact that our pensioners with the lowest pensions will only receive the so-called Dragan Supplement, it is the credit of the Government and also the National Assembly and not only the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. I don't think any of the members of this party have ever been credited with this. The obvious fact that this is a pre-election candy, which is what we can expect at that time, and for any law, such laws have been passed in the past in the National Assembly, which has been for the benefit of citizens and citizens, would characterise it as a pre-election candy. If we list only this year's laws: raising children's documents, free or subsidised diocese diet, a higher allowance for the socially disadvantaged, and we could even list it, all of this could be read or attributed to us as pre-election candy. But such laws were also in the year before last, the year before last, always when the matter was regulated systematically in some area. And we can ask ourselves how much Slovenia is a social state. If we are working on a comparison with more developed European countries than we are, we can peacefully and with all arguments ensure that we are at the very top of social security and a very large part of gross social product devoted to social transfers or to this area. However, each country can be as social as it creates. We cannot share or devote anything to social beneficiaries if we fail to do so or more than create it. That is why the level or absolute value is increasing all the time, as is the increase in economic growth, as is the increase in gross social product. And this has been the goal all the time and also the actual actions of this government, this coalition, or I can say the National Assembly. Today, with these two amendments to this Article, you are somehow proposing that the Dragan Supplement should also be intended for all those with low wages. That's what I'm for. Surely it would be for this if we could also provide these funds, or we might ask ourselves where to take them. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I agree, but, Mr. Juban, if we look 17 years ago at how many such laws there were for the dradnian supplement, all those things that were, but also those were higher inflations, the poorer standard of people was, today to talk about the low standard, I think that if we compare it back, it is, in my opinion, unjustifiable. [[...]] I agree, we want it to be higher, but I think we will achieve it every year. You say we have low wages in Slovenia. They are, I believe they're too low, they'd all want to have higher ones, but they can't do that overnight. Let's make a smaller comparison. In 1990, I still have this information in my memory, it was the average salary or pay of an employee with secondary education in some medium-sized company 500 German marks, if we translate it into euro, it is 250 euros. Today, the salary is almost €900 on average, which means it is 3.5 times higher. And if we translate it, say, either to buy some real estate or cars or entertainment electronics or anything, we see that the real standard in Slovenia has risen strongly. And it'll go forward. And the backlog of Slovenian wages, including the lowest, has not yet reached Europeans, but it is lower and I believe that in some years we will also reach the same level in Slovenia. To accuse the government or the state, but above all here the government's findings that it is responsible for all the smallest wages that workers get. I believe that we all want these salaries to be higher, but unfortunately the Government, and not us as legislators, does not directly influence this, because in a market economy where both the labour market and the competitiveness of all that it is, it provides such wages as they are. I believe that good employers will strive to make their employees pay more and more, given their impact, and this will benefit everyone. However, no one can claim or deceive that the Government, as well as we, by amending legislation in an indirect way, have actually contributed to the fact that net wages may also be higher. We have created better conditions for both the employer and those who have set up new companies, especially smaller ones. With many tax incentives, we are reducing, in a short time, this tax will actually be completely abolished, a tax on wages. It's a matter of this government, this mandate. And if employers no longer have to pay this tax, transfer it to the state or transform it into higher net wages, they could have higher wages without the employer actually needing any more costs to raise wages. Some employers believe that they do, some unfortunately do not, but here I think that for the long-term benefit of all, it is also necessary to work in this direction. I am sure that this law is now the right move, but not the right one, but that it is in fact the capacity of the country and the situation in Slovenia as well as in Europe, in terms of the incentives primarily for food to truly grant this supplement to our pensioners with the lowest pensions. Finally, the pensioners are the category of people who are somehow also the most powerless to create any additional sources of earnings, because given their probably less ability to work and also operate in the labour market, for the vast majority of them the only source of income is the pension. That is why this solution is certainly the right one. I think it will be in the interests of all those who will receive and I will support this law, and the amendments themselves, I think, such as they have been tabled in this article, would be pointless and even unnecessary to support them, and I do not intend to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to replicate to Mr Potsch, who has made two statements about me. First of all, I didn't take his word. Indeed, I did not take it from him or anyone else. It doesn't occur to me to take a word from anyone in this building in the National Assembly. It's pure nonsense. The second thing he said was that I asked them to vote against it. That's true, but given what's said about this marriage. That is to say, if I were so extremely dissatisfied, I would simply express this dissatisfaction by voting against it. And I think that's perfectly legitimate. And all that's different is deception, unfortunately, whatever. Thanks again. But there's something else I'd like to point out. Here we talk a lot about things that aren't exact, that are baseless in the data. There's a lot of talk about these pensions. I have here specific data for the average pension with a protective allowance in 2008, April, and specific data, 2004, March. Granted, they're not the same for months, but despite all that, the data is interesting. In March, the average age pension was €492, this April of the month, and it is indeed a month later, and it is €580. This is an index or increase of 18%. Also, the disability pension was EUR 398 in 2004, and this April was 463, 46. This is specific information. Another possibility is the lowest pension, which was € 143 in March 2004, this April € 173.13 or 21% more. These are the data from the Zpiz they publish on a regular basis. And let me put it this way: inflation, total inflation, March 2004 to this year is 16.5. These are official statistics, and I ask that we have these and talk about them, not something in mind. These are the actual figures in the Zpiz message and the actual information in the Statistical Office's communication on inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Potch, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u123	Thank you very much to Mr Veršnik for taking up my discussion with two additions in concrete terms. The first is, Mr Veršnik; anyone who is not satisfied with the law can either vote against or submit an amendment. I objected to your claim that we should vote against it. We have tabled amendments. And second. In the course of your debate, I have warned you that absolute data is not comparable to my debate. I asked you to tell me in the meantime how much more net wages went up during this time and then find that pensions were lagging behind, and that's what I said. And you didn't throw that away in your own debate because you didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Just as I said several times in other laws that can be classified as pre-election candy, I am not disturbed. I don't mind if the government and the coalition now come with some laws that they like, which are mainly due to the accumulation of political points if the laws are such that they help someone. Thus, of course, I have also supported the law on financing food in schools, and this law will also, of course, help pensioners. It will help those most in need. Of course, it saddens me that the marriage only came now. Why didn't he come here years ago? Why didn't he come when they adopted, say, the law when the media law was passed? At the beginning of the term of office, of course, those worse laws, and now those that can bring you points. But as a matter of fact, I don't mind, it's no problem at all, far from it. It saddens me why this has not been done before, so that the consequences of high inflation, which affect the lowest beneficiaries, can already be compensated. And not only high inflation, but above all the structure of this inflation is important. The structure of this inflation, which represents a very large proportion of basic living needs. So these matters, which are most affected, represent the largest proportion of the family budget. That is why I will be much more supportive of the amendments that have been tabled in order for this social correction to take place in the most fair manner possible and in the best interests of those who are most in need. Of course, I would be happy if the LDS would get the support of the amendment, as I estimate that this very most equitable difference is summed up and is also intended for those who will receive it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, we are not talking about average wages, nor about the highest wages, nor about the appropriate ones, but we are talking about the structure of beneficiaries who are among the lowest paid or supported, and the question is how to survive with the monthly income they receive. On average, it's an old saying that it's "segedin" that contains cabbage and meat. And that doesn't mean anything. And now we're not dealing with "segedin" today, but we're dealing with the lowest-paid problem. Once again, I came by because there is a political deal on the day, where there seems to be nothing in the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Finance, but this is a deal between two government parties: DeSUS and SDS. We recall the vote of the call for a decision to call for a referendum on the provinces where DeSUS reacted as it did and allowed us to launch 4 million euros for a referendum that gave us no response. And that's why the Prime Minister had to agree to the law before us. Now, here's the credit, if there wasn't a referendum, the pensioners wouldn't get anything. And here boasting about credit is useless. As far as I'm concerned and those amendments that are ahead of us, because that's the whole point, it would be good if we supported any or any combination of them. It would be the wisest thing to do, but there is no such common sense in this house, I regret to say that the proponents would consider a variant that would receive sufficient support in the National Assembly and that the basic proposal before us would correct the amendment of the law in a way that would actually bring something to the people who are in distress. I'll say one more thing. However, the solutions that are in the amendments are likely to depend largely on how many of us will be seated in this hall at that time. And even those who table amendments may occasionally be irresponsible about the vote. And if today's presence is too small, it may be that some amendments will receive support, which will be good for the beneficiaries, but it would not be good if no amendments were supported. I will support everything, of course, in the desire to make at least some of this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, any amendment submitted by someone must have some impact assessment, especially financial in this case. It is interesting, however, that if you look at the debate on this Article 2 and the Complements, all the time I am here, there is no one here to discuss the second amendment, which greatly broadens the range of beneficiaries to a single supplement, the representative of the Zares Group was only here when he represented the position of the Group of Members. But there's no one here for a single moment in time and debate. It seems that their proposal is not even open to them. I must say that the debate on this second amendment of the Group of Members did not, at least in my opinion, come across some broad support in terms of a positive debate. It is true, however, that those who propose extending the beneficiaries simply did not reject this amendment. The enlargement of beneficiaries is also disputed in the First Amendment of the Lip Group, which has also been here for more than half an hour to defend this proposal. Tell me whether it is fair that someone who has reached the conditions for a retirement pension also has one, and decides not to receive part of this pension because he probably estimates that he will earn more on the market with his work and professional activity. I agree, however, that the debate on who else might be a beneficiary, even in the context of these amendments, is welcome, but the matter should be realistically proposed and also assessed, with all the consequences. I am afraid, and I will say again what was taken from me by the committee because the chairman of the committee disagreed with the debate. I am a very correct Member, I am properly debating, I am not falling into words and so on, but tell me, I will be very plastic, how will someone who will borrow a billion euros to become the owner of the company, how will this money get back to repay the debt to the banks. Now, let's put aside the fact that the bank may be failing and all its savers, the natural persons. Probably through a large part of ownership in one of the important or largest trading chains in Slovenia, it will have to generate extra profit with margins. That's one piece of the medal. Therefore, among other things, the price of food in Slovenia will be due to non-existent real competition, as other trading chains only follow this because they are increasing their profits on the market. This is one side of the medal and is probably one of the important reasons if you compare the rise in food prices in comparable European countries and in Slovenia. There's a 60.70% difference from those tests. The second part of the medal, which is even more frightening to me, is that this billions of euros, in one way or another, should be made for the development of these companies, this company and its competitiveness, although it is not engaged in a competitive activity such as innovation and so on, is not a global player and will probably not, but will perhaps be a player in the Balkans, but will not invest in its development. Twice as much damage. I think there's enough explanation in this, and I'm not going to support these two for the above-mentioned reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u130	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? Yeah, I see another hand. Mr. Starman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. That's a nice hello to you all. I've heard a lot about sharing these pre-election candy now, but I have to point out one thing, it's hard to share candy if you can't make it or earn it. It's hard for a father to buy them for his children if they're not out of anything. I would like to say something that we have done in this period, and we have done something that makes it possible for these four years. In 2004, an average of 724,400 people in Slovenia were employed, and today, according to the latest data, 784,300 were employed. Sixty thousand new jobs have been created and have in fact responded during this period, pressures on all cash registers are therefore lower and allow the possibility of reducing deficits, or we have come into surplus in the state budget. In fact, they allow for some adjustments to certain things that have arisen due to the exceptional encouragement of food, especially not to talk about other matters. If we did not have this option, it would not have been possible - but it was mainly done when we actually provided conditions for the economy, the biggest part was the abolition of the tax on paid wages that burdened the economy, and many other things were done that conditions were in the economy and that the trend in employment began to be reversed, in economic growth. And I am very glad that we can argue in this way at home about whether we would give one tolar more or one euro more or less because there are conditions for this. They needed to be created, and this has actually been created during this period, and I hope that we will continue at this pace, regardless of who will rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u132	Thank you. More desire for a debate. I can see more hands. I'm opening the application. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. Mr. Brenčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Starman. But the basic basis for a progressive economic growth to begin in one period and thus for employment to increase is entry into the European Union. Implementation of a whole type of legislation that has given rise to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. This is a fundamental mission to start economic growth with rapid growth. Thoroughly. That economist who's been serious on the market for 20, 40 years, they've confirmed 100 an hour. But we've achieved this in the previous term, so you won't just be too pompous.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u135	Your Honor! I will not support these amendments. I will not support the marriage with great joy. But I would like to say the following because I have very little time left to discuss. I simply cannot understand what most members of the opposition say here today that this law is pre-election. You know, respected pensioners and pensioners, they don't care if this law is pre-emptive or not. They're interested in getting that money. And that's the key, and that's what this law gives them. And that is why the Government has proposed such a law and why we the Members who have decided to support this law will support it here today, and we will allow these people, the pensioners, to come to this money, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that their lives will be better, better and better. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u137	Dear President! Appreciation of my colleague and colleagues! I think we need to think about, and this very precisely, the second amendment, because it does apply what we like to proclaim in Slovenia: equality before the law, equality in decisions. This is a one-off bonus. In this case, only for pensions. And if we stay at it, this marriage is unfair. Guilty of this work to all those who live in the same way or even worse do not have any status. So he's tied to the status. But she's not going to pay this pension money, but she's going out of the money of all taxpayers, according to the budget. All taxpayers, it is also said, will not be entitled to this gift by those employees who have allocated part of their income to this gift. See if that's fair. It's not about anything else. The other thing is how that money got in the way. After all, if we look at what has been saved in pensions, the legislation in the last two years is more than what will now be possible. The state kind of took it, calculated its manipulative costs, and now it's going to return it as a gift. It's a delusion. This is a lie, this is what our president of the National Assembly talked about two days ago in this hall, at a festive session: deception. And it's a delusion if I take something from you and then give it back to you, and I say it's a gift. There's something else you should say. It doesn't bother me that it's before the elections. I'd rather see that before inflation really started hitting, but data, such as inflation from 2004 to today, are not what usually compares purchasing power, but we're talking about something else. It is necessary to look at what really happened at that time for the €492 and what is happening today for €580. That's how long people are left, what they can afford. It's not just bread and two days old bread, as Andrei of Styria says, it's something else. Modern society requires people to meet other needs, not just food, drink, sleep, and reproduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u139	Now I promise you one last time. Following the calculation of the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, the State has no surplus in the budget but a deficit. The methodology for the statistics of the unemployed is now different from four years ago. And the way of recording and reporting is different, by admitting that today the unemployed are fewer, but still too many. For each individual, unemployment is a serious matter. In the end, the State of Slovenia has only one cash register. I think something like that Sok has said before. And behind Dars, behind the pension fund, behind many others and behind this law is the state budget and no one else. Which is why I've come to my attention, but now it's just that there's not one or the other, and every once in a while one comes, who doesn't know what's going on, and he says something, and he can say anything, but he doesn't know what's going on in this room. We have found in the course of the debate, we have heard, we have experienced that this law is the result of a deal for the provincial referendum, where we have launched 4 million on the basis that the other party can get the law for the dragan supplement. And it would be wise, if this had already happened, good that it had happened, that with the amendments this marriage would have been somewhat corrected, that in fact those most threatened would have at least gotten something clever with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u140	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u141	Thank you. Since, in particular, those who are subsequently involved in the debate on the two amendments to Article 2 are eager to help themselves with statistics, I will say, as it is also possible to think about things: 2.2 euros per citizen for a non-necessary referendum, or 28 euros per participant, which is less than we have raised the minimum wage with one of the laws adopted recently. I can agree with my colleague Starman that it is necessary to create, and then to share. But in this same country, we boast of economic growth, and everyone knows that wages are lagging behind in productivity growth. And as a social democrat, I have yet another important point to make. Yes, it is important to create, but the social state is measured by how income created is distributed. And here as much as it does for priorities that are important for assessing whether a country is social or not - we should talk about this. And what I am saying is that the second amendment is, indeed, possible without the appropriate financial effects, and does not indicate how much public funding should be given to implement this amendment, but from the point of view of the State's responsibility towards all citizens and citizens and from the point of view of justice, solidarity and equal treatment before the law is significantly better than the proposed law as a whole. This does not mean that I do not agree with the fact that the recipients of low pensions, let's say 80, 100 or 150 euros of an annual supplement, but I am talking about that in addition the Dragan Supplement should get a lot more in this country because those below 500; this limit is set; pensions are still very large. Remember all those workers who told you how much they earn in Mura for full employment. I can tell you that we're winning because before, someone was talking about the checkers and reading the books and the demagogies. As President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I get a number of written roles from citizens and citizens who are suing for unsustainable situations in which they live and say: "Let me help.".. How can a petition commission, a state-level committee that does not have these powers, help people? Yeah, it's normal to at least, if a proposal is already being made, to say the same, even though you have a number of concerns. But what bothers me in these stories is that since January we have been adopting laws that are non-systemic, which pressure Members and Members on the social sense, because we know that they will improve the situation at least in some segment, but when we ask ourselves how bad they bring on that positive, there is another question. And don't mind. When we discussed this recently about the opposition proposal for a law on subsidised primary school diet, because we were very few at the time in the Chamber, go read the magnetogram on how they justified the rejection of this law by Members and Members from coalition parties. And a very interesting story will come together, no. At the time, however, concerns about systemicity, public finances and what was very large, and at the time, the state has handled matters well and everything can be regulated under existing legislation. It's as if for a student diet, if we wanted to, we wouldn't be able to regulate it under existing legislation. But you know, these are the things we want to see, that we see or we don't see. It would be good to quote data on employment growth in order to say whether that data on employment growth really means new jobs. No one knows in which sectors new jobs have been created that we do not have enough workers and workers in Slovenia for these new jobs. Go take a look. According to each industry, the highest level of employment growth is in construction. That there is a lot of credit in construction, it is also true and much more could be said at the expense of this, because it is not only enough to shake one statistical data out of the hand, but also the methodology by which the data was obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u142	Thank you. Is it still an interest? I can see a few more hands. Check-in is on. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I would not have answered if Mrs Potrat hadn't said one sentence, which I think is very important, and I agree with you completely, Your Honor. It is very important how income is divided. It's really important. And I would suggest that your former member, Mr Schrot, who stepped out of your party because he knew that what he did would be discovered and that, as a client, he would cause you harm if you advised him to return what the workers had created there together. We in New Slovenia have proposed that this debate in Parliament should be taken away from them, if possible. We're still sure that's possible. And if they took away what they didn't earn with their hands, in fact, what you're proposing with these amendments could be increased and upgraded and even more divided. Only those people who have put some common assets in their wallets have to return it to this society, and let's solve a lot of these problems. So just tell him to bring it back. But as for the referendum you all mention and say it wasn't necessary. Of course it wasn't necessary. Also, if your client had not changed his mind and opposed what you once proposed, this referendum would not have been and these resources from the state budget would not have to be given for the referendum. That's the truth, and you have to say it the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u144	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u145	Thank you. I don't know Mr. Boscow personally, so I won't be able to give him any advice. Even the state of his membership is a matter I don't know. I don't know how long he's been a member and why he got out, because I can't explain the personal behavior of individuals as well as some others who obviously know everything. It is true, however, that the denationalization has returned property to many people, who are not even known how it came to be. However, as far as I follow the stories of the newspaper, the legal opinion of one day is that it cannot yet be imposed on me or that it does not give me the right to condemn someone immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u147	Thank you very much. A few things were said that motivated me to call again. In the meantime, the messages of the pensioners and the pensioners who are watching us, and one of them was also that the pensioner was humiliated because of this debate, because how we celebrate, how we celebrate and work with people who certainly do not deserve it, who were good while they were paying, even though because they had small wages, they paid little in cash, they live so hard now. But now it's often forgotten about them. What's this all about? I would like to point out that, even if the amendments we are talking about and for which we stand will not be adopted, many will be deprived and will deprive many of those who are most needed and entitled to the amendment. We've also heard of the sufficiency that it's the power to share candy when they're created. Yes, we know how this situation took place in the state budget. We've all been alerted to that. So far, highways have been built by funding from the budget. Now they're funded by loans. But this difference, how much we have saved, how much surplus has been generated, is not a total surplus of the budget. No, it's been spent on other things, it's been spent on everything else than what we're talking about today. And that's the truth. Of course, it is nice that the success story ended with the entry into the European Union, which has allowed so many and so many new jobs. I am just afraid that it has really concluded that these inertias will run out and that the success story will not continue, but that the relationship between employees and pensioners will continue to turn worse and the pension will be even lower. Earlier, it had been said about unemployment and statistics, how this is done in the new way. Before the unemployed, there is now so much less because those who are not employed have been deleted from the list of unemployed. They didn't become employees, the number of unemployed didn't go down because they'd hired you. But because you take them under a new heading unemployed, but they still don't work, they still don't contribute to the development of the country and they still don't contribute to pensions. And that's why I'm going to question how this surplus has come about, which is so much talk, and why that money that we got from the loans that someone is going to have to pay back, I'm sure that this government already understands that this will not be her concern, so of course also with the laws of work, but that this money is not more usefully used and is not intended for social, but especially for development. In development, that is to say, those new cities, but not in accounting, the accounting reclassification of the unemployed, which would ensure that the pension and all other cash flows in the budget will be filled more quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u148	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. Thank you. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u149	Mr. President, thank you very much. Just one sentence, given what Mrs. Potter once said to me. Look, comparing the beneficiaries of the denationalisation process with the rich from Forum 21 is kind of rude. This has nothing to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I just heard manipulation of the number of unemployed. On purpose, I said the number of employees in the Republic of Slovenia on average in 2004 was 724,400 and the latest data in Umarje was 784,300. This means 29,900 is more employees today than it was four years ago. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That's it. [[...]] I wasn't talking about the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u152	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Not a debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? Only Mr. Slavinac raised his hand. Here you go, Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u153	Thank you. It's not that much of a debate. I really want to talk because I was obviously misunderstood. I didn't trouble new jobs, even though we know what they are. We've imported the labour force. We've imported the labour force, the one that's behind it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We can say "whisperers" as well, yes. [[...]] So we imported a labor force for unsolicited jobs that our people don't want to take over. That's why I was talking about unemployment. I didn't bother with any new jobs at all. I was just afraid that there would be a success story with the entry into the European Union, and my colleague warned us that there were so many new jobs in particular and also due to the free movement of labour, capital and, in general, all of the ratings that we received when we entered the European Union, I was afraid that this story would now always end and point out that the unemployed are not so much less. It is not less than statistics show us, but they are only otherwise published and as long as there are so many unemployed jobs, which are objectively very few contributors to the cash register because of the unsolicited jobs mainly imported by the labour force, we cannot count on the issue to be resolved in general, and we will always have to put out fires for such fire-fighting actions as the dradnian supplements. I would really like to create such conditions in which there will be no need for dragnet supplements, but all those who, of course, are not all, but all those who have paid in the pension fund so much and so many years during their working time, in exchange for this pension will be able to receive such a pension that they will survive in one decent way. This is what I was talking about and, of course, I want a lot more jobs, but not the kind of jobs I was talking about. But those who are truly quality, quality and who will employ our people, our unemployed and, of course, who will also be able to motivate the unemployed to seek employment. However, as is often the case, employment offers are avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u154	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 2? Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u155	I'd just fix it. I said 29.959 to 59,900 earlier, there are more employees than there were four years ago. 59,900. I said 29 earlier, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u156	Thank you. I see there's no K2 left? [[....]] Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u157	I apologize, but I would not have answered because I had very much to discuss and justify on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and at first I didn't think it would make sense for me to even make a call because I believe that whoever was convinced at the time was backing the matter. Those who opposed her at the time will evidently be today, but still. These amendments are mainly about actually trying to cover those who are in the same position in some way. And I have repeatedly pointed out that someone who has 400 euros in pension or 400 euros in salary is in the same difficult position. And it would be logical for social policy measures to apply to them to the same extent. And I don't understand why it doesn't. Indeed, of course, no one says that those who have EUR 400 pension are not entitled to an inflationary allowance, on the contrary, of course. The very solution to these supplements could be even more just. I fear that some of the pensioners will also be disappointed when they realize that this distribution is actually not fair, although computer programs and information today would allow everyone to get exactly the proportional share that belongs to him in terms of the amount of the pension. The other thing is, of course, that we have completely forgotten the others, as I said, especially those workers with very low salaries, in which we all now pretend in some way that there is no problem there. Of course, there's a big problem. And the measures presented by the Government for this category were in no way an inflationary compensation. They were only a substitute for a changed way of harmonising social transfers. In fact, let us all remember, this is probably a good thing that the government has changed the way in which social transfers are coordinated in the middle of the mandate so that the whole range of socially endangered layers has been much worse because transfers have only been aligned once a year with the level of inflation. With such high inflation, which we witnessed after the introduction of the euro, we also believe that due to insufficiently coordinated economic policy, some layers felt this very strongly. And those various increases in child supplements and the like were only partially compensated for what was previously taken from them. But we still have no answers, given the recent inflationary pressures we are witnessing, what about employees with very low salaries, where there is actually a very big problem. And even after these special reliefs were introduced through the tax system, a whole range of bad solutions emerged because, when inflation was so high, it suddenly happened that those with minimum wages immediately fell into the middle income class and were no longer entitled to these special benefits and so on. In short, social policy has become completely opaque. And what I regret in some way is that we have not received the same social measures through this marriage package that we are presenting today, but we have made sure that people with the same income are also given equal social measures. But you have not followed this and because of this I think this black mark on this law is also the intention of the Group of Ambassadors indeed to correct it. I must say that it was with great satisfaction that both in the SLS Group and in DeSUS, which supported the coalition party on the amendment committee, and there was a debate, at least I had this feeling, especially this one, the superpartner or she was trying to follow the professional arguments, but, unfortunately, today will obviously be again in the vote and the result is already known. That's why I didn't want to come to the phone either, but I think, given that there's been a lot of comments, it's only right that I gave a couple of explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u158	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] You want a word? Here you go, Secretary of State, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me re-engage in this debate, given that I believe that a debate has been taking place for quite some time on the issue of justice. What's fair? What would be the circle of beneficiaries that would guarantee full justice in this system? We are talking about two new categories, those who are employed and receive low wages, salaries less than 500 euros and those who are unemployed who receive monetary compensation. It is therefore fair that, following the proposed amendment, only the 15,000 unemployed who receive monetary compensation would benefit from the proposed amendment, or perhaps it would be fairer to have all 62,000 unemployed, if they are even in a worse position. With regard to the recipients of the minimum wage. True, they are in an economically poor situation, but the government here has very limited options for action. And why are these options so limited? This is because by direct intervention at the level of the minimum wage, it undermines the relationship between workers and employers. It engages in social dialogue in a bipartite agreement on wage levels between employers and trade unions that determine themselves. By increasing the minimum wage, they could be achieved by fully degrading the payment systems that are otherwise in place in companies. In many cases, it is now considered that this amount of minimum wage, which is now, reaches so high that it reaches, say, fourth grade. That's how the wage ratios are broken. The government intervenes in this area as much as it considers appropriate or as much as its legal powers. This means that it proposes to raise the minimum wage in accordance with the law, which we did this year or last year, and this year we have even proposed in cooperation with and with the consent of the social partners. We have proposed a one-time promotion, which has been adopted. At a recent meeting of the Socio-Economic Council, the Government also presented possible changes to tax reform or tax legislation that would also solve the problem of recipients of minimum wages, insofar as this would increase by a certain percentage in August and in so far as these recipients would receive such regress in order to move these beneficiaries to minimum wage in other income classes. Otherwise, since I am speaking, I would still take this opportunity and I reiterate that the Government is very well aware of the poor situation of pensioners and is not underestimating this in any way. Otherwise, I would not propose this amendment or this law, which is now proposed, to these measures. I would also not propose a Protection Supplement Act at the beginning of the year. So, the government is taking this issue very seriously. Nevertheless, I would still point to something - pensions are growing realistically. Pensions have grown real since 2000. Exceptionally, they fell by 0.5% in 2003, and have grown since then. They are particularly growing after 2005, when, as has been mentioned here many times before, this government has proposed different reconciliation of pensions with salaries. Such coordination, as proposed by this amendment, means that the situation where 10,3, 10,1 % of gross domestic product was earmarked for pensions in 2007 will result in this share by 2050, with unchanged legislation, if taken hypothetically, being 16,7. If the change in 2005 did not occur, this percentage would be 13 in 2050, which means that if we look from the point of view or with the eyes of the pensioner, the state or pension of the pensioner is significantly improved. That's exactly what I'm talking about. With regard to the relationship between net salaries and net pensions, let me add this. Indeed, this relationship has changed due to the planned burden, the tax burden on wages. This tax relief sought to stimulate active income from the labour relationship. However, this relationship has not only been broken down for this reason but has been undermined since 2000 onwards, because it is the result of a conscious decision to reduce the replacement ratio between salaries and pensions with the aim and objective of ensuring not only adequate pensions but also the long-term sustainability of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u160	Thank you. There is still interest after the debate, and I am opening a recommission for discussion on Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article. Mr. Run, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u161	Thank you very much. One formal proposal first. I think it would be more correct to replace at least the first and second amendments to Article 3. The second amendment is far more distant from the first one and I agree that if the first amendment were accepted, then the second amendment would be out of the question. I'm not sure about the reverse ratio. Because the first amendment concerns up to EUR 580, ours concerns all pensions. This is a proposal that I think has been corrected. Second. I think it is right to point out that we are discussing the situation in which pensioners and others who are either employed in a working relationship or unemployed or recipients of certain social transfers have also come into existence with the government's policy. We can talk about how objective economic movements and conditions in Europe, in the world, the price of oil, food and more have helped. I'm not saying no. But also with government policy. And our comments go in the direction that the Government has responded late, so that it can do something before that, to take some measures that have helped to make the situation worse for the socially disadvantaged, we are talking about social transfers and their coordination. And now all the excuses can't go in the direction of a great policy, but they have to say, we're correcting what we did wrong. And I am pleased that Madam Secretary of State for the first time on the part of the Government, for the first time on the part of the Government, because Mr President spoke differently. He did not speak the truth, but you are the first to say by the Government that the situation of pensioners has indeed deteriorated by the fact that they went nominally net wages up, due to tax reform. And in this fact, there has been a greater gap and greater differences than there would have been otherwise. The replacement rate is the policy that we decided upon when we passed the law, many still object to it today, and I was among those who were very intense at the time, Mr Brenčič, really involved in the preparation of the pension law. We have accepted this as one of the solutions and it gives us positive and good results in my opinion. But this has nothing to do with reducing into the account of the revised tax policy that has reduced net wages. My colleagues asked me earlier, or you admit that we've always talked about gross wages - yes, I can admit that. However, this change in tax policy has changed the situation of pensioners, and we can say by the Government that this does not concern us, it has really changed, only so the pensioners will get about 2% less this year, not only this year, but from this year until we correct these bases. But you can say, yes, we agree, it's put the pensioners in a new position and we're ready to talk about it. You are not prepared to do this, and in this is the weakness of this government, which cannot boast that the problem of pensioners has been adequately solved. However, we have already said on the working body, and we have already said today, but Mr Lahovnik has not yet been in the Chamber to support all the amendments and that so far some amendments have been tabled, which have been fairer than even the full amount of the replacement rates, is said not by the separation scale, but by the connecting scale and that it would be right to include not only pensioners, but others who are particularly affected.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Tomc, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I would only point out that I was talking about improving the situation of pensioners not about deterioration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I am not impressed by the State Secretary's interpretation of a more fair or less equitable approach. The approach you have taken is the path of least effort, unfortunately with all the technology given you by the modern information computer achievement. Is it fair, we are talking about public funds from the state budget, that the pensioner, €495, gets an allowance from public funds and his partner has a pension of €1,000, their total pension income is €1495, but he gets an allowance? Two partners, mostly with minimum wages, such as the textile industry and so on, both of whom have a pension of €500 or €510, do not get anything. Is it fair for someone to get 15 or 20 years of work in our ZPIZ allowance and the rest of the pension receives from the German ZPIZ, from Swedish, French, his total pension income is strong over EUR 1000, and we as a state give him a benefit because the remuneration from ZPIZ is less than EUR 500, the supplement? That's not fair. I am talking about public funds, the State budget funds collected primarily from taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u167	Thank you very much. In a way, I was surprised by the fact that the representative of the Government, the Deputy Minister of Justice, had said two things. First of all, that Mr Brenčič has absolutely kept what he has already said before me, namely, if it is fair that someone, say, who has 510 euros in pension and if you have a marriage mate, have a total of 1,000 euros if you want, even though he is an individual, has little over 500 euros, he gets virtually nothing, because he is obviously a rich pensioner on your scale and you say, "He is not affected by inflation." Although if you look at how much a basket of living goods costs, you will see that it also hit someone with 500 and a little more euros of pension. It's actually a very low pension. So talking about some of the righteousness here is very risky. But the other thing that is even more difficult for me to understand is: By what logic can you say that someone who has 390 euros in wages that he had or 410 euros in wages is not entitled to inflationary compensation because it would undermine wage imbalances? This isn't about some extra salary. This is an inflationary compensation whereby the state wants to improve the social situation of those lowest-income recipients and does not interfere at all with wage relations. If that logic were true, then the same logic would apply to pensions, and they would say that it changes pension relationships. And that's where they're going to be, because someone who's a little over 500 euros, they're going to feel somehow disadvantaged and they're going to say, "What am I, from the state and from God, forgotten as if this inflation hadn't hurt me?" And you can find even a number of other cases, and I didn't want to do that today, but we also talked about this on the committee before Mr Potrč came, that, say, the wealth situation of pensioners is very different. And you have a situation today that someone will have just over 500 euros, and I don't know what kind of property or even property, and this country will deny him this inflationary compensation. Someone else, though, who has, I don't know, a small amount of statistically lower pension, but he may have a lot of property, but this is a particular question where I took up the Government's argument, where it was said, without having no data on property, this is no more fair for those who are most at risk with little wealth, with low income, to get much more. But those who have a lot of wealth are relatively less. Okay, I said, really, this may be a problem, and I accepted this argument. But I didn't accept that argument and I won't. By some logic, someone with 400 euros in wages is not entitled to this inflationary compensation. Because even as I said earlier in the introduction, even in the United States, which is considered a neoliberal country and I don't know what else, they have put in place a package to promote economic growth and inflation benefits due to high inflation. With this social package they targeted all social groups, not only on, I don't know, on the unemployed, not only on the employees, not only on the pensioners, but on all those who, given income in the same situation and below a certain level of income, were all entitled to some package, of course those with the lowest incomes most, those with a little higher income slightly less, those in the middle class and higher, and they were not at all entitled to this aid. But if I think about it, then I still don't understand why this alliance fell apart. If you're talking about justice in this government, then it would be a just system if you were to ensure alliance. Just like the proposed amendment, where the logic was to replace the difference of up to EUR 575. And someone who has 300 euros - gets 275 euros in supplements, someone who has 450 relatively less and so on. This would be fairer, and so you have made this step-by-step system that will make this story repeat itself, than all transfers that have censorship. Where someone who exceeds some price for a pair of euros is no longer entitled to a grant or immediately receives a minor grant for kindergarten, or is not immediately entitled to an aid and service allowance. In short, this case is actually being copied into this package right now. And given the information systems that we have at our disposal, we could solve this very elegantly in terms of justice, but the government did not do it, and it was not the right will. Once again, I say, on the Committee's assessment, the debate was very correct, very substantive and everyone has tried to contribute in their own way, whether it is from a position or opposition, to actually get some fair inflationary compensation for those who are somehow the most affected by this inflation. Well, listening to the government wasn't enough. You have taken some suggestions into account; also colleague Potrč in the debate then pointed out a case and with great anguish we have achieved that there has been an additional group of people who would otherwise have fallen out. This was taken into account and all other constructive proposals were then not taken into account. Therefore, I am simply sorry that this did not happen, for then the solution would be more just and everyone would support it with a lighter heart. Thus now, for I say, we can support any solution that solves the situation of a particular group, but we regret that the situation of all those in the same bad situation is not being resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u168	Thank you. Anyone else? Since the debate is no longer under way, we are moving on to a debate on Article 3 and the three amendments to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 3 and the three amendments to this Article. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u169	Thank you very much. An amendment under number 1 would, in any event, lead to a much more appropriate and fair allocation of this aid. I have already said on the committee, I do not know if this vessel is such that we can fill it, but the system as such, assigning a difference between some remuneration and some limit is much more fair than a severe increase, which at some limit uncompromisingly excludes someone who is much more justified. Although I expected the government here to take a little deeper into seeing what financially represents such an approach. In order to be able to do so completely and with all the reliable data with which the PIZ practically has the capacity to do it immediately. Now the matter is a little late, given that the meeting is taking place, tomorrow is the last day of this session. However, I know that such an approach would be much more credible on the part of all recipients and also on the State budget which allocates public funds. Unfortunately, the situation is a little late now. I know that some kind of up in such a conceptual amendment to Article 3 is almost unattainable. Thank you very much. However, it would be much more credible for the state budget and for the recipients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u170	Thank you. Go ahead, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u171	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Our amendment came about mainly because we did not create new injustices. Of course, when we reviewed the law, we were very well aware that some things were not settled, in consultation with colleagues who had already submitted corrections at the time, we decided on this matter, which would result in new injustices, new injustices, new imbalances, and, in fact, new disputes, let us fix this by simply setting a ceiling beyond which it is not possible. We took the one that could also be calculated from the government proposal. This is five hundred plus eighty, says EUR 580 is the upper limit and then a very simple accounting operation, which is known to children in the first grade of primary school, and how much EUR 580 is to calculate the contribution that should be made from the state budget to individuals who do not reach EUR 580. We also discussed this on the committee. While there were some concerns that someone was simply receiving money from another address. This can also be arranged by calculating the share in the way it will now have to be calculated. I don't think it's too late for that to happen. In view of the fact that the representatives of the PIZ, which would of course have carried out all this process, have ensured that they are also able to do such things quickly enough. I think it would make sense to support this amendment. It is also because, after all, it does not change either the political will or the basic will of the Government in solving this problem or in this Draganj allowance or whatever it is called. Now, if, of course, the only thing that's causing this amendment not to support itself is stubbornness, then God help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. The gem supplement is intended for those who, of course, would improve their material position, which is bad. So it is those who, of course, are burdened by the costs of basic necessities of life. And the amendment that we have tabled here, in our view, is more appropriate in dealing with this principle, this fairness that you have spoken of, because it is impossible to imagine that this system proposed by this law will be more just if someone who has a pension of 403 euros will receive 150 euros of this surplus. However, those who will have 104 euros, i.e. the difference within one euro, will receive only EUR 100. I think that such an approach, where I would federally set the ceiling of the pension and this supplement together, would be more equitable, especially in the principle that we want to help those who are most socially at risk. Well, technically, I don't see any problems here that would require extra work. You have already specified the number of individuals in the group in the financial implications, so it is only necessary to change those numbers in individuals who are stepwise with you, but in this federal approach they would be federal. And it seems to me that in this way we would confirm what colleague Starman also said that today, as you say, as representatives of the government, conditions have been created for this to happen. And if these conditions are established, then I am sure that today it is only a matter of will or do it more correctly, more justly, or we will insist on this less proper step-by-step system. In the parliamentary group, when we proposed these amendments, we have been aware that we will help those who need this most, and I am convinced that such a principle and such an approach can also be acceptable to representatives of those coalition parties who do not yet accept these arguments or do not want to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u174	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 3? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] So I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 32nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 31. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AVENTIC EXPOSURE 150. Member of the Code on Mortgage and Disability Insurance. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by mag. Janez Petty Officer. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Stanislav Brenčič for further explanation of the Committee's proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act was considered at its 38th meeting, 4. 6. The proposer of mags participated in the meeting of the committee. Janez Drobnič, representatives of the Government with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs with Mrs Romano Tomc headed, and the representative of the Legal and Legal Service and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia with the Director-General of Mirano Papež. The Committee was given an opinion by the Government explaining the purpose of Article 150(1) of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and then giving its opinion on the issue raised by the applicant of the authentic interpretation. The Government considers that the legal formulation of Article 150 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance is clear and unequivocal and therefore does not require an authentic interpretation of Article 150(1). The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The legislative and legal service points out that the instrument of authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law, but can only relate to the interpretation of the legal provisions which have proved unclear in practice in the context of the content in question. With regard to the wording of the authentic interpretation itself, however, it points out that the proposed text is not acceptable, as it would constitute a substantive amendment to Article 150(1) of the ZPIZ, which cannot be implemented in the context of its authentic interpretation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also pointed out that their opinion, as well as the opinion of the Government, showed that there was no need for an authentic interpretation and that its proposed text was unacceptable. The representatives of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance explained that the institution must respect the law and have no discretion to reconcile pensions differently, as it is the basis for coordinating gross wage growth. Although the latest amendment to pension legislation has yielded positive results, there has also been a change in tax legislation and there has actually been a significant deterioration in the wage/retirement ratio. After the introductory part, the Committee went on to discuss whether the presented authentic explanation was necessary. Most of the debaters felt that the problem should be solved, as there was indeed a different coordination of pensions in relation to wage movements. In view of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that such an interpretation was not acceptable, they agreed that the matter could also be resolved, or only by the Government preparing a change of law following an urgent procedure. They called on the government to explain what it intends to do in this area because it is responsible for poverty in our country. On the basis of Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided to propose a decision for adoption to the National Assembly, which reads as follows: The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considers that the authentic interpretations of Article 150(1) of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance do not need to be adopted. In view of this, the Committee proposes that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it should not adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 150(1) of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u176	Thank you. I give my word to the proposer, mag. Janez Drobnič, to present the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u177	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I have tabled a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act because the Pension and Disability Insurance Board has changed the way pensions are valorised without changing the legal basis. As a result of this practice, pensioners lost 2% of their monthly pension, which would be known for all the years ahead. Pensioners are entitled to an additional 2% valorisation on the basis of the law and on the basis of this compulsory interpretation, as the average monthly salary after deduction of taxes and contributions was 7.9% higher in 2007 than in 2006 and the valorisation was 5.9% higher. With the decision on the harmonisation of pensions, PPIZ abandoned the practice of the period prior to 2006, which took into account the increase in gross wages in each reconciliation, by converting them to the average rate of taxes and contributions applicable during the period from which the average wage growth was taken into account. In fact, he was using net net technique. It does not explain that the methods of coordination have changed due to the amendment of tax legislation, specifically the Income Act. In no provision of the Income Act or any other tax provision, there are no provisions under which we should abandon the practice so far and implement a new method of coordination. As a result of the changed accounting practice of the institution, there have also been unjustified differences in the amount of pensions. In a better situation there are pensioners who are re-assessed in pensions and in a worse situation those pensioners who have retired in previous periods. Unjustifiable differences also arise between the recipients of high pensions and the lowest pensions, as no new rates of income are taken into account. The Institute could continue with the same mode of coordination as before 2006, in order to take account of the level of contributions and revenues as before. Since the institution failed to carry out this conversion, it violated the legislator's purpose in 2005 as it was stipulated that pensions were in fact coordinated in the same way as wages. No legal provision was subsequently adopted to modify that direction. Since the institution refers to Article 150 in justifying its conduct in coordination, in order to change this mode of coordination, the reason for adopting a mandatory interpretation is that there is no doubt about the method of coordination. However, ZPIZ is certainly not a legislative body that can adopt a way of coordinating pensions, which is the responsibility of the National Assembly. The opinion of the legislative service is not relevant, as it is the practice that shows exactly what has happened that there has been different coordination, although the legal standard has not changed, which means that the provision of the law is unclear. This means that a mandatory explanation must be adopted. On this basis, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the mandatory interpretation I have presented. This will valorize the pensioner by 2% and apply to all the years ahead, thereby repairing the damage that has been done. This is legal and given the increase in living costs, given inflation is justified and more than necessary. On this basis, I propose that the decision submitted by the competent home committee be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u178	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Romani Tomc, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. Minister-minister Drobnič wishes to clarify in the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance the meaning of the adopted and more than 2 years' implementation of the provisions of the law relating to the method of coordination of pensions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the proposal inappropriate because the proposed topic cannot be the subject of an authentic interpretation, but can only be the subject of a new amended legislation. At the same time, the Government notes that the present provision of Article 150, which provides that pensions are to be harmonised in view of the growth of the average monthly gross salary, is clear and, in the light of the rules of legal technique, appropriate and unequivocal. However, any confusion about the basis for the reconciliation of pensions has already been addressed in the legislative process when the government novel STIZ-1F was adopted in 2005, which changed the way pensions were coordinated with the aim of not lagging behind in wage growth. Article 150 provides for a clear and transparent way of coordinating pensions with salaries. The amendment cannot be the subject of an authentic interpretation which is intended only to clarify the legal norm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u180	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, more in terms of pre-election populism than in terms of some serious contribution to the interpretation of Article 150. The proposer proposes that the term average monthly salary, given the increase in the amount by which pensions are coordinated, be regarded as an amount that takes into account the movement of average gross wages, which is previously converted into net value, taking into account the average rate of taxes and contributions charged from salaries in the Republic of Slovenia. The provision of Article 150, paragraph 1, of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides for a way of coordinating pensions. Pensions shall be coordinated according to the growth of the average monthly salary paid to legal persons employed by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The existing system has been in place since 2005, when it has been specified in the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the term "pay" is understood to mean gross wages and the term "average monthly gross salary" has been deliberately abandoned due to the terminology of the legal text. In view of the above, it is not disputed that the institution must take into account statistics on the movement of average gross wages when deciding on the level of harmonisation of pensions within the prescribed period. However, the relationship between average net wages and net pensions is affected by the amendment of tax legislation. It is undeniable that the change in tax legislation in terms of lowering wage taxes constitutes an incentive to work. Non-conformity [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] they are shown in 2005 and 2006. [[...]] When amendments to the 2007 law were in place, the average gross salary paid increased by the same percentage as the average lower pension base by 5.9%. Certainly, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we find that the main reason for the differences in the harmonisation of pensions is a change in tax legislation, so it is not better to agree on a co-ordination percentage than to implement various legal "bravures" and to change a system that has barely lived well. For these reasons, we do not support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We know the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act that there are two issues. The first is the question of a substantive decision; the second is the question of formal solutions and options. What we have or have not completed is the decision, but the debate is that, on the previous law, where it is clear that the ruling coalition or the parties to the Janša Democrats and New Slovenia do not want to accept the fact that the situation of pensioners has deteriorated due to the change in the tax system in 2007. It worsened by 2% and that tracking the actual net salary would mean or should mean that pensions would increase by 2%. The government and the two biggest government parties do not want to accept this. And I think it's right for us to figure that out and say that. Whether it is possible to conclude from this that the pensioners are doing better or worse today, let each one find out who knows what the plus is, what the minus is. If it's a negative, it probably doesn't make the pensioners any better, but they're doing worse because they have 2% less pensions than they would have had. This is a substantive debate. I have to accept it. Like us, the ruling coalition, the government, the two largest government parties, we do not want to give the pensioners the right to say that because we do not have the means or because we do not want to. However, let this be said publicly and clearly. The second question is the question of formal reasons why it is not possible to adopt an authentic explanation. All those who claim that an authentic explanation must not mean an interpretation of the law, because it is used backwards and so on, you are formally right. However, I will tell you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, that you have the least right to claim this. At least you have the right to claim it because you use it in terms of how it suits you. For when it came to the mandatory authentic interpretation of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Legislative and Legal Service said exactly the same as it did this time that the proposed text of the authentic interpretation could not be adopted, since this would exceed the framework and possibilities included in the authentic interpretation. Mr. Mag. Miroslav Mozetič was then the Head of the Law Service, and he wrote in his opinion: "In view of the above, we estimate that an authentic explanation is not necessary because the law is sufficiently clear - it is not unclear. It obviously seeks to remedy certain difficulties in the operation of the Fund, but it is not due to a vague provision. In fact and legally, such an interpretation would constitute a change of law, which is not permissible by authentic interpretation." It was exactly the same, this time with the signature of Lord God Strlett, as it was said with regard to this authentic explanation. And what was the vote; in the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the authentic interpretation was voted against the opinion of the Law Service. They voted for it, which was at the 31st serious meeting, on 28 September, also the President of the French Cukati National Assembly, including Mr Grims also Mr Jožef Horvat, also Mr Jaka Presečnik and also Mr Tanko, and could list them. In short, all the righteous in this National Assembly, so I don't think it's possible to take a decision that's on the table today because it's formally incorrect, but because you just don't want to fix the situation and lose 2% by the pensioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Mr. Potts, you can go to your seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u185	Thank you very much. One courtesy and courtesy of the Honourable colleague and colleague! [[...]] Dear Chairman! We have before us the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It is also to the wish of all pensioners, as far as I understand those letters coming to the address of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as well as to my and the National Assembly, to change, but the basis from which the pension is calculated is said to go from gross to net. We are not in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for such handiwork. After all, the fact that we are demanding the rule of law is essentially determining us in some way and it tells us that, of course, one tool is used for one thing, another tool for another thing. The authentic interpretation is one of such tools, which cannot be for the law to be amended, to be supplemented or amended, so we have other options, particularly the proposal to amend the law, which, of course, could solve this matter in this direction. We also talked about this on the committee. In a way, the government was also invited to prepare this as soon as possible, if it made sense to her. Perhaps today too is an opportunity to hear from the Secretary of State whether this is being prepared or not. It is clear, however, that pensions need to be reconciled very soon, as these changes between salaries and pensions are mainly due to tax reform, so this is a complex matter which, of course, may not be known at first, but later. I am sure that the expert systems and diagnostic systems offered by modern technology and modern science also allow such things to be seen and predicted, but of course then acted, but of course they can also be experimented, which is a little older, not to say the outdated method. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service should also be taken into account. While I agree here with my colleagues from SD that the practice in this House has been different, I find such arguments very difficult to agree that when something is done wrong, then we have the right to do wrong and otherwise continue. This also destroys what we call democracy, what we call the rule of law, so I am against this authentic explanation, and very, very much for the matter to be settled as soon as possible and as soon as possible. But there's enough people in the Ministry and enough will in my opinion to make this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Allow me to speculate on the introduction. If the so-called Marble Income Act were still in force today, we would certainly not have this item on the agenda of the National Assembly. However, since this National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has adopted an income reform which has resulted in a higher net salary for the same gross wage, this proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act has emerged. The income reform we have adopted has improved the situation of employees, the situation of workers. It must be said that this income reform has not been supported by all the parliamentary groups, but I must not list these parliamentary groups and individuals here because this is the position of the Group. The proposer of the proposal for the acceptance of an authentic interpretation proposes that the term average monthly salary applied by Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act be interpreted as an amount taking into account the movement of average gross wages, which is pre-calculated to net value taking into account the average rate of taxes and contributions charged by the Republic of Slovenia. This would prevent the applicant from harmonising pensions less than the overall increase in the movement of average net wages. Both the opinion of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service is negative. According to the findings of both parties, the provision of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is clear and unequivocal. Pays are interpreted as gross wages. Therefore, like the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service in Nova Slovenije, we believe that an authentic interpretation is unnecessary, as acceptance would constitute a new way of coordinating pensions with the methodology, which should be subject to legal regulation. However, I hope to surprise you, fellow Members and colleagues, and also to cheer you up, that this coalition and this Government will do something for our pensioners by the end of their term of office, and for those who have existential difficulties due to global not only Slovenian, darlings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will take a proposal for a decision which the National Assembly has submitted to the Assembly for its reception by adopting a proposal for the adoption of a compulsory interpretation of Article 150(1) of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. In our view, the first paragraph of Article 150 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, in indispensable connection with Article 58 of the same Act, is written down in full and unequivocal terms, which is also based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has examined the proposal for the adoption of a compulsory interpretation very carefully. At least I, as chairman of the labour force responsible for this area, give particular emphasis to legislative opinions. Thus far, it has proved that the amendments made to the draft laws based on the legislative opinion in practice have always had a beneficial effect on the implementation of the law. The purpose or Institute of Compulsory Interpretation allows the legislator only to legally define the content of the legal provision within its original purpose, so that the implementation in practice is incontrovertible and clear. However, in our view, the proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 150(1) of the ZPIZ would be amended or supplemented by a clearly recorded article of the law, which should only be done on the basis of a proposal for a law amending it or supplementing it. As has already been said, the text of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be rejected as unnecessary. However, we are of the view that there will be a need for serious reflection within the new mandate on the question of the continued adequacy of pension coordination systems, including the fact that the prices of the most pressing needs of life, in particular food and energy, will continue to rise and that wages will continue to rise due to inflation control and the inflexibility of competition in the global markets. As it is said, we will support the proposal for a decision submitted by the mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u190	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u191	The Honorable President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague. With regard to the proposed authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, DeSUS Members weighed between the substantive idea of the proposal for an interpretation and the formal material conditions which the institution of authentic interpretation must fulfil in accordance with its purpose. We note that the application of the Institute of Authentic Interpretation in this particular case, in view of the clarity of Article 150 itself in relation to the introductory provisions, where the concept of wages is explained, even with regard to all accompanying materials in the legislative process, the creation of amendments and the completion of the current law or article in question, is not acceptable. The authentic interpretation is intended to interpret the content of the legal norm for the purpose of the legislator. The interpretation given in a specific case of authentic interpretation, however, does not explain the purpose of the legislator, who, according to our assessment, is sufficiently clearly defined, which is the primary and only function of the institute of authentic interpretation. This does not mean that DeSUS does not support the purpose or objective that the applicant seeks to achieve by adopting an authentic interpretation, namely the harmonisation of pensions, irrespective of gross growth, but given the growth of the net amount of the average monthly salary in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed idea of a different basis for the coordination of pensions makes sense with regard to increased net wage growth in view of the gross increase resulting from the amended income legislation. It has been shown that pensioners have actually been reduced to net wages in order to harmonise all these changes, resulting in an increase in the drop in pensions according to wage growth or a reduction in the comparable purchasing power of the retired population in relation to the active population. This also affects the deepening of the problem of poverty among this population group. We are also aware of the fact that the problem of coordination of pensions is broader than just the stated need to adjust coordination in view of the gap between net growth and gross wage amounts. It would therefore make sense to come up with, in addition to the proposed idea set out in this authentic interpretation, a slightly broader system of intervention into the existing pension system, which, for example, should go in the direction of establishing the valorisation coefficients that today change with the rule and can reach an average of the required number of years to calculate each replacement rate for the general public and beneficiaries. In our parliamentary group, we are seriously aware of the situation of Slovenian pensioners and pensioners and understand their findings at the expense of the current pension system. Of course, there is also a problem of contributions that do not result from such an increase in net wages in the design of coordination with net salaries. If the net salary is higher due to lower taxes, therefore there is no more contribution to the pension fund, and this is why it is also questionable from this point of view. In the future, we will also support all the systemic improvements that will in the long term bring about such needs of changing demographic trends, while at the same time providing a valuable position for every generation of pensioners and every individual in this category, with a stable, healthy and just pension system to be completed. Members of our Group are convinced that the proposal for an authentic explanation may also reflect the bad news of the former Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, given the previous attitude towards proposals for a solution to the reconciliation of pensions with wage growth, which is not the same as that set out in the Coalition Treaty. And since the purpose of this proposal is certainly positive on the basis of substantive pay, the right of all of us remains that this issue, despite not meeting all the formal conditions for admission, supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u193	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! I don't know if everything's true. This authentic explanation and all that has been taught is so well said that I don't even know if people would understand us if they were to explain it to them on the street right now. I'm not sure all we've heard is true. I will try very simply to ask and get an answer or I think you will confirm to me and the Slovenian National Party. By 2005, according to the data I have, it was the basis for the calculation of the net. If I don't have the right argument, someone can prove it. Then the Council of the ZPIZ Institute suddenly began to account gross, which would not have been entirely strange if the law that sets out was changed, i.e. according to my logic, the Pension Insurance Act. The law hasn't changed, the way it was calculated has changed. This is, for the first time, very strange. The world has made up its own mind. But what happened to the bottom of the barrel? It is true that what we have heard today is a change to the Income Act, where it turned out that someone was very clever. So the one who started instead of net calculation gross, and already knew what would happen after the adoption of the new income law. It's about to happen that someone's gonna screw up 2%. This is the truth, at least for me and colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. So around the bend, come and bring the matter to somewhere, so we're going to do a little "screw" thing. Once again, according to my logic, the Pension Insurance Act should be amended, thus defining a new method of calculation and then making the matter clear. And a second time. Why an authentic explanation? The very concept of authentic interpretation means that someone should explain something. And now tell me, ask a purely normal person, and the Slovenians are very smart people, if you say, "Rooms are coordinated according to the growth of the average monthly salary paid to legal persons by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, hold back, hereinafter referred to as "average wages". And now I'm very interested in asking what this average salary is, whether it's round or a monthly salary. Is it so hard to write in article 150 gross or net? Anything. I don't know either. The average salary is monthly. Where is the basis that clearly states that what is said in Article 150 is gross? Where? Show me that article where it'll write, and I'll say O. K., I apologize, Mr Drobnic is wrong and we will support the decision proposed by his mother's working body. That's not how we're gonna do it. Not in the Slovenian national side. In the Slovenian National Party we are in favour of such a request for an authentic explanation, because we think and we are almost certain, Mr Drobnic is right. He's right. Unless, of course, someone else proves that the Pension Insurance Act has changed, that the method of calculation has been gross all the time. He wasn't. That's not true. Someone made it up in the middle of something, by the way. But now we have seen it, and of course now everything is wrong, and now the authentic explanation is to blame because we have other instruments and blah blah blah. Of course we do. Only those other instruments must the Government change to help Zpiz to make the Book clear, because the law says that it is the basis for calculating gross, and so it cannot say because it does not. In the Slovenian National Party, we give the initiative right and we will oppose the negative conclusion that an authentic explanation is not necessary or we support the requirement for an authentic explanation, without, of course, hearing again as we heard in the first, any pre-election games. But if you don't believe me, go ask people.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Lipa will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u195	Nice greeting again, on my behalf, the third time today for this advocate! The Pension and Disability Insurance Board said that pensions would be aligned with gross salaries. But these are the people who, nothing to you, have raised 30% of the meeting. It's the same moss that makes the money. Why are such interpretations of legal provisions possible? Because the laws are written vaguely because the Pension and Disability Insurance Act does not contain a clear policy that would say that pensions must be aligned with net salaries. Therefore, the members of the Board of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance have said, we will choose the best option to save. Pensions will be aligned with gross salaries. I speak very plastically, but I'm not far from the truth. Pensions or pension ratio: wages have changed. The very drastic fall in pensions occurred in 2004 and 2005 after the mandate of this government, which today boasts about how very real pensions are aligned and growing with wages. That's not true, dear colleagues. From this chart, we see how very pensions fall in proportion to wages. This is also available in the annual report of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. If you allow me, because I believe that you have not all read this fat read, it is written down: "As a result of the effects of the amended tax legislation, between the movements of average gross wages and net wages, which until then did not materially give up, there has been a greater gap, which also affects the relationships achieved between pensions and salaries." Furthermore, in this report, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance notes: "The difference in average gross and net salary growth affects the ratio between average pensions and average salary, which were further and significantly reduced in 2007 when the average net salary increased in the previous year" So, the pension's gone down. "In order to prevent further and faster declines in the ratios between average pensions and salaries, the effects of the amended tax legislation would need to be mitigated by the tax legislation referred to by some government representatives at the previous point, in short "these negative effects of the amended tax legislation would need to be mitigated or eliminated by an appropriate change in the basis for the harmonisation of pensions." Anyone who claims that pensions today, in reality, are aligned with wages, net wages, or that they grow the same way that wages grow, is simply lying. The facts are different. Let me show you the graph one more time. Pensions in comparison to salaries fall due to the changed methodology of payroll, including the law adopted in 2005. Finally, this is also the important valorisation factor set by the Ministry of Finance each year in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour. And this valorisation factor, referred to in Article 47 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, is falling, every year is lower, respected colleagues and colleagues. And these are the facts that I hope to claim in this place, honestly and honestly, and I have evidence that the pension actually does not follow the growth of wages. This also makes pensioners the category of people in our country who are socially at risk. And if you want a solution for all those who are not acceptable to you by authentic explanation, which speaks of pensions having to be aligned with net salaries, let me tell you that the Lipa Group has tabled a new law on pension and disability insurance, where we clearly and loudly say that pensions must be aligned with net salaries. Once again, the pension is a well-deserved right and must, as such, be sufficient for a decent life without social adjustments. I hope that the words of New Slovenia, which say that we will experience before the elections, some miracle that this miracle will be in support of the proposal for a new law that we have tabled in the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 32nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 32. Dotko - This is a defensive proposal for a resolution on the National Health Care Plan 2008-2013 "pleasant users and performers of health services". I'd like to inform you that we have five hours and ten minutes for this item. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u197	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The resolution on the national health plan from 2008 to 2013 is a document that is needed in our area also because we have lived for several years without long-term guidance. The key objective set out in this document is for healthy citizens and citizens and for satisfied users and healthcare providers. The core documents are, of course, national documents and the European strategy adopted by the European Council in December 2007. Many different professional and civil associations participated in the preparation of the plan and a wide-ranging team from the Ministry of Health, the Institute for Environmental Protection and health insurance. The document sets out very clearly the analysis of the health situation of the population and also the broad comments taken into account. We got 111 from 95 different institutions. The vision we set out in this document is to raise awareness of our own health, to organise a quality and financially sustainable healthcare system where the patient is a partner. Special attention has also been given here in accordance with the law on patient rights, patient rights and possibly improved relations with patients. The key values that we have set out in the resolution are, of course, based on the fact that health is our greatest value, although we are often aware of it only when we no longer have it. However, universality, equality, solidarity, inclusion, quality, responsibility, trust and ethical behaviour are the values through which chapters related to strengthening and protecting health, health activities, medicines, medical devices, financing, the use of information technologies, the definition of standards, future investments in health and the relationship with civil society are also intertwined. An important difference from previous documents is that there is a much greater emphasis, in line with the European strategy, really on raising awareness of a healthy way of life. It is difficult with demographic changes, which are evident, to gain trends and we simply cannot and will never be able to build enough hospitals to be sufficient for a poor attitude towards our own health. And that is why this chapter, which also has a very concrete action plan, how through civil associations, through various projects, we will sensitize citizens and citizens, encourage them to drink less, to smoke no more, to eat healthy, to move more, and remember that our responsibility for health care is both at the primary level and at the secondary level. This time, too, health homes have a very clearly defined role, i.e. they are primary health coordinators, in the area where they are located, and we have them in the resolution as a positive part of the public network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Health as a working mother, so I ask President Ljub Germić to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u199	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues. At its 32nd regular meeting on 5 June, the Health Committee considered a motion for a resolution on the national health plan 2008-2013 "satisfactory users and providers of health services", which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption. The following materials were forwarded to the members of the committee for the meeting: text of the motion for a resolution, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, letter from the Faculty of Health Sciences Maribor, letter from the Institute of Economic Research in Health and the materials of the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which were transmitted by e-mail. On the text of the resolution, the Legislative and Legal Service has drawn up only comments of a nominal technical nature, which will be addressed in the final edition before publication in the Official Journal. In its written opinion on the motion for a resolution, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia formulated general and specific comments presented by State Councillor Peter Požun at the Committee itself. The introductory presentation to the motion for a resolution was made by Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic. It stressed that the resolution on the national healthcare programme is based on the Health and Health Insurance Act and takes into account the Health Strategy Guidelines of the European Union Together for Health, the EU Strategic Approach for the period 2008-2013 adopted by the European Council in 2007. It further presented key guidelines, proposals and solutions in the proposed resolution. In the debate in which all members of the Committee participated and were invited, it was particularly stressed that the National Health Programme is one of the most important documents defining the health policy strategy. The widest professional and civil public should participate in the preparation of such an important document, which is not clear from the many comments received by Members. Such an important document should be adopted by a public consensus, which the ruling coalition was not prepared to do, as it also did not support a public presentation of opinions clarifying a wide range of open issues in this area and proposed by the Group of Members. Some Committee members stressed that the national programme should be based on an expert analysis of the existing situation. The motion for a resolution thus does not show that the share of public funding and GDP in health is declining and the share of private funding is increasing. The inequality of citizens in the provision of health rights and access to these rights is also increasing. The representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance pointed out that the Assembly of the Institute for the Proposal for a Resolution had drawn up a very large number of comments which had been submitted to the Ministry of Health but had not been taken into account. The representative of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Health also stressed that their comments were not fully taken into account by the applicant when preparing the text. On the contrary, the other members of the Committee felt that the resolution was a very good document, which had been prepared by experts of various guidelines and good medical experts. A broad public debate was held on the motion for a resolution. The Ministry of Health has adopted a number of comments which have been taken into account that it is not correct, in particular that the members of the opposition have drawn attention to the absence of a national programme and have put pressure on the Ministry when it will prepare it when such a programme is submitted and do not want to participate constructively in the adoption. All those who have ever participated in the preparation of such important and challenging documents know how long - term and difficult work this is. The fact is that such a document can never include all the interests and needs of the widest professional and civil society. During the discussion on the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution, the amendments and amendments tabled, questions were raised, the open debates of the members of the Committee were answered by the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State. Within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft resolution were tabled by the DeSUS Group of Members and the coalition groups of Members. The Committee supported the amendments of the DeSUS Group, sub-chapter 5.2.1.5.2, palliative care and sub-chapter 1.11.5, financing of health service providers, and the coalition's sent groups to sub-chapter 6.4 and 7.8. The Committee has drafted and adopted an amendment to the introduction. The Health Committee voted on all chapters of the motion for a resolution together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The motion for a resolution on the national health plan 2008-2013 is entitled "satisfying users and health care providers". Of course, there is an immediate question as to why this is not the case today. The national programme plans activities as well as concrete measures in the area that has been known in recent times mainly by affairs that are strong principles of its reputation. By 2004, we had a national programme entitled "Health for everyone until 2004". This was followed by four years of programming emptiness. Now, as a wager, we are in a hurry to adopt a national programme that requires a broad national consensus before it is adopted. Unfortunately, we do not have this unification in such an important area as health. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I have proposed to the Minister that public hearing should be extended to allow the professional and lay public to consider the document and to draw up comments as well as proposals for improvement. The proposal was rejected, but later the Minister decided to extend the public hearing due to wider pressure. Indeed, the examination allowed for a number of comments, but most of them were not taken into account. We have publicly pointed out that after four years of programming emptiness, we do not rush into adopting a national programme simply to heal health wounds in this way by the coalition. We all know how important it is for the wound to be thoroughly cleaned before the procedure. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have repeatedly pointed out that, if we want to plan our health interventions in a qualitative manner, we must first make thorough professional analyses that will be the basis for the completion of the objectives and, of course, the way to achieve these goals. As an example, I should mention the award of concessions at the primary level. Let me say in the introduction that it is not possible to place a private concessionaire on a common denominator and say that their operation is poor and that their sole goal is to earn money. Nor can it be said that public institutions are untouchable and that they are the only truly quality service providers. The truth is probably, as usual, somewhere in between. At the time of the adoption of the national programme by 2004, Members of the Parliament and Members of the Council were able to write into this programme that the health institutions of the activity remain at the primary level. Nevertheless, concessions continued to be distributed through the system, why would anyone who wanted to grant a concession not even grant them? Although it is not necessarily necessary that these were actually necessary. And usually by granting a concession, a healthcare home loses part of the program and, of course, part of the funds. So it's not the basic problem in thinking, whether private or not, but in looking for added value. Where there is no other way, the concessionaire can be a very good solution. However, redistribution of doctors within a given area is not a solution that would provide a more accessible and quality service. The proposed national programme states that the healthcare home has the role of co-ordinator and an important healthcare provider at the primary level, namely the area for which it is established, and in cooperation with concessionaires. Therefore, compared to the previous national programme, the role and position of healthcare homes is changing one step at a time. If this trend continues, in the next programming period it will only be written that there will be a team of people in the healthcare home to coordinate concessionaires in the provision of health services at the primary level. On the contrary, in the Social Democrats Group, we believe that there is a need to strengthen the functioning of health homes, which need to be large enough, equipped and trained to address, in addition to the wide range of activities so far, in particular the challenges posed by the near future, the role of hospitals, which will increasingly address only those patients who cannot be treated in the home environment, the need for comprehensive and active preventive activities, the increased need to address mental health in the environment where the patient lives, the growing need to address the needs of older people and chronic patients, the completion of hospital treatment, home-based treatment and palliative treatment. Below, you wrote that if there are more, the congregation or congregation in the area of the current healthcare home must ensure adequate investment and conditions for the smooth and successful work of health homes and concessionaries. And you asked the congregations what did they think of the responsibilities you owed them? Consider the role of the provinces, which, like the health - care community, will have to take care of hospitals at a secondary level. Will we even need the Ministry of Health if we take into account the Medical Chamber in the system, with all the public powers it has? The European Union underlines equality, justice, universality and solidarity and accessibility to quality health care, Mrs Obersnel Kvedrov stressed. As she added, these guidelines make the Slovenian resolution on the national healthcare plan extremely non-European. According to her, the EU strategy provides that countries have the primary responsibility to provide quality health care, to strengthen health services rights and to reduce health inequalities. By contrast, the Slovenian resolution indicates the withdrawal of the country from the health system, its promotion of everything private, shows that the country wants to reduce the public health system and open the way to a two-track system. At the same time, the majority of the population has access to the most essential services, while the rest are only accessible to the wealthiest. That's what the same lady wrote down. For quality planning we need a quality picture of the existing situation, we need answers to questions about what we have gained through the introduction of private health care, all the benefits and all the weaknesses. Is the service better now? Are the services more accessible? Is it enough to record in the programme that demographic change will require the adoption of a law on long-term care and long-term insurance? That's what we're dealing with today. And as of today, both ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should hand in hand the conditions for long-term care. The movement to preserve public health is highly critical of the proposed resolution. They state that the resolution did not ensure that our country is concerned about health, that our country is serious about health concerns. In their opinion, the resolution reduces the importance of public health at the expense of private health, reduces the country's responsibility for better public health and does not realize the uniform European values defined by the EU strategy Together for Health, the EU's strategic approach for the period 2008-2013. There is no solution in the document for those who are denied access to health services or cannot afford health care due to high pay. We did not table amendments in the Group of Social Democrats because the text of the national programme requires a comprehensive conceptual approach. The Health Care Plan is in the health policy domain, which has the only tool available to implement it. It can only be produced with the help of health professionals and other experts, taking into account the initiatives and opinions of civil society. In doing so, it is essential to ensure that the implementation of the plan is also monitored and directed so as not to succumb to policy orientation mainly to short-term effects. The need for greater public health care should be stressed. It is necessary to encourage primary health care that is oriented towards the needs of the population in order to encourage them to live in a healthy way and to take account of their needs. The plan must provide an effective strategy to improve the implementation of prevention programmes. It should plan health programs that promote healthy lifestyles and reduce risk factors for disease due to the most common diseases such as cancer, injury, mental illness, musculoskeletal disease, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The national programme we are considering today is a document that needs a very broad consensus. That is why we do not understand the coalition's opposition to obtaining additional answers to the public presentation of opinions. There is also an answer to the question whether the plans are well-funded. However, public interest must remain paramount. I'm stressing public interest. Too many questions are open to announce support for this document on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by colleague Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u203	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again. We have been critical of this government in relation to the preparation of an important document such as the Health Care Plan. This is an urgently needed document that identifies key areas and strategies for the further development of this important system. After almost four years, we have received such a document from Members and Members of Parliament. The question was whether this document also gave us the right answers. According to the LDS, no. And we made that clear when the draft of this document was presented. We have clearly pointed out the weaknesses of this document and what it would be necessary to complement if we really wanted to obtain such an important document in such a form as to help further develop the health system, health policies and the provision of a healthcare system. The document itself cannot be disputed that it is not materially extensive, that it does not include a set of data collected from different documents. However, the question arises whether a thorough analysis has been carried out on the basis of these documents and whether, on the basis of these documents, we can implement health policy development strategies. The public debate, which the Ministry has extended only on the basis of public pressure, has shown that there is, and will be, a great interest in this area. 111 comments were sent to 95 different organisations and individuals. And on the basis of all these comments and on the basis of the supplementary motion for a resolution which showed that the resolution did not actually include most of these comments, we proposed that the document should be made public before the debate in the National Assembly, as we talked about a document which must reflect public interest. On this occasion, we reiterate our regret that the ruling coalition and the Government have not supported this public presentation, because in this way it would be possible to hear directly all those to whom the comments have not been taken into account and on the open stage the confrontation of the answers why it has not been so. This would also be necessary because the Government's proposal for the supplementary text of the resolution did not provide a critical assessment of what was taken into account, what was taken into account and what was not taken into account and what was the argument that this was not the case. Given that we have not had this umbrella guidance document in these four years, there have also been certain interventions in this area, certain movements with which we can assess today, we cannot be particularly pleased. I'll point out only two areas. This is the so-called privateization of our health system to a very small extent, which later proved to be a weakness, so we had to modify recently the illegal texts as well, and another area that we have fundamentally regulated with the medical law, which we define as a complete separation from the conventional medicine used in Slovenia, while only the text of this resolution speaks much more patiently and of the experiences of another country, where it is said that this area needs to be introduced with a critical distance, but that this is an important area and that there is an interest of doctors of other countries in this area, significantly greater than it has been set with a complete separation under Slovenian legislation. Of course, we would first of all like to point out to this resolution the fact that the document itself does not comply with the law-defined provisions. We have clearly stated in the Health and Health Insurance Act that such a plan must be drawn up and that such a plan should include a development strategy, priority development areas, objectives, health objectives and objectives, the basis for the development of health activities, specific needs, mandate holders, criteria for public health networks and so on. At the same time, we also made it clear in the law who should be involved. In view of the professional and civil public's warnings, we see that we cannot be satisfied with both content and with those who should be involved. Of course, it is particularly concerned about the fact that all the supplements provided by the insurance company for the health insurance of the Republic of Slovenia as a very important creator and enforcer were actually rejected, since it actually operates by means of compulsory health insurance. Next. In our view, the resolution is not based on an analysis of the existing situation and the advantages and weaknesses identified. During the preparation of the document, an analysis of the state of health care and insurance in Slovenia was obviously not carried out. In particular, the material does not contain a critical assessment of the existing system and the appropriateness or inadequacy of the different definitions adopted and applied in previous years of practice that may not be in accordance with the rules. There is no assessment or finding in the material of the appropriateness of the existing organisation of compulsory and particularly voluntary health insurance, social relations, i.e. the country, to health, existing legislation, investment in this area, the inclusion of other areas in the effort to improve health and so on. This does not reflect the achievements of the system’s good side, but even less the problems faced by users and operators. How can we assess this resolution as an appropriate document if the demographic characteristics are, we are talking about the perspective and development of the health system, if the demographic characteristics are mentioned only as a matter of urgency and are not in fact taken into account in the document. In our view, it is not possible to imagine a good healthcare plan without the need of older people. Furthermore, the document does not touch on some extremely problematic areas of Slovenian health. The issue of the efficiency or inefficiency of the organisation of public health institutions is not addressed, the evaluation and payment of health programmes, the problems of inefficient financing and poor access to medicines, the system of collective wages in health care and the consequent departure of productive personnel from the public health sector, the outdated hospital network and the problems of cartels in health, there is no vision of the insurance market, compulsory health insurance and non-voluntary health insurance, as the resolution itself states, parallel health insurance will play an important role in the future in the provision of health services. Further than the lack of resolution, we estimate that it does not contain the criteria for establishing a public health service network. Of the following lists only some for the primary level of healthcare activity and for secondary and tertiary levels it is not observed. The indication of 1% to 2% of the annual growth rate of healthcare personnel does not yet constitute criteria on which to build a well-organised rational and quality health activity, without any clear role and significance of the healthcare home. We have heard many times in this mandate that this is somehow a viable organisational form, which in the original text of the resolution was intended to play a role in talking about the basis and the organisational backbone, today we can read in the resolution that it is only a coordinator and a healthcare provider. The criteria for hospital stationary activity and the development of individual specialties and departments are not foreseen at all. Such an approach means holding back and expanding existing health facilities without any urgency, i.e. in our view an urgent restructuring or adaptation to the needs of the population and the principles of good organisation and the requirements of an economically acceptable way of implementing health programmes. As a result of this resolution, the current state of health care remains unchanged with all its shortcomings. The legal regulation of issues that may have the greatest impact on improving user satisfaction, better access to health services and the confidence of people in public health care and insurance, and which the resolution has not identified, are questions about what the development frameworks for various forms of privatisation in the health service will be possible, how the state will divide public and private interest and prevent the unjustified transfer of public funds from private contributors. This is an important issue because certain forms of such action are already being carried out and we can also witness to them today. Of course, we strongly stress that such a document should also clearly define and set a course for ensuring control. The resolution does not address the serious problems facing insured persons to an increasing extent. These are phenomena of poor accessibility and long, still too long waiting periods on certain services, unjustified differences in the treatment and quality of health services, insufficient opportunities for insurers to influence the functioning of health services, and above all, untransparent and uncontrolled privatisations. A particular problem shows the existence and growth of various self-paid outpatient services, which, without legal bases and supervision or even contrary to regulations, also operate within public institutions during working hours intended for the implementation of programmes, compulsory health insurance services. Similarly, the consequences of various forms of the so-called entrepreneurship approach of doctors or the emergence of special insurance and other activities that are not legally regulated and not under proper supervision, but almost all go to the detriment of insured persons and public funds and public interest. Furthermore, the resolution does not contain any fundamental measures to increase the extremely poor efficiency of the health system. Therefore, the issues remain open how for insured persons, i.e. users, to improve access to health services, to reduce or eliminate waiting periods, to improve the relationship of operators to them, and how they will address the various phenomena of unjustified charging of payments and to pay when requirements for services are applied, how will the satisfaction of health service providers be improved and the measures by which this should be achieved. Nor is the assessment of the public financial implications of the health guidelines planned, and the guidelines are given only flat-rate and insufferable. We have in the text an annex, measures to achieve the objectives, wherein certain areas, objectives and tasks are specified. In achieving the objectives, there are no intended operators in the larger number of tasks, and even less how they are identified or achieved. Most of these remained at the general level, such as the regulation of the public health service network, the effective delivery of health services, the reduction of waiting homes, the introduction of long-term care, etc. We could still list it. Many proposals are related to amendments to the relevant laws, but the document does not specify which of them and when they should be amended or amended. The greatest flaw in the document, in our view, is that it contains very few concrete and useful definitions of what individual carriers will do and how and by what means. The document also does not link the entire range of participants in the healthcare system, nor other health sector departments in efforts to achieve better health and to create health-friendly policies. However, it is very clear from the resolution that private expenditure on health care is being increased compared to public funds, as a share of the social gross product. Such an approach is unacceptable for Members of the LDS. The document predicts that the share of public funding for healthcare will be reduced and private funding will be increased, while at the same time it is predicted that the scope of the rights will not be reduced or reduced. Of course, this is said to increase the employment of doctors by 11.4%, dentists by 5% and nurses by 17%. Since healthcare resources will not increase in real terms, there will be less money for medicines and health services. This means that the programme predicts less rights and increases inequalities in the healthcare system. The projection predicts a 1% increase in health employment since 2010. One of the key directions in the vision is "to ensure a long-term sustainable healthcare system". Here the question is asked, how and in what way, because when we listen, these days of presentations run through different parliamentary groups, the strategic development programme of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia is also presented. In their presentation, we are clearly reminded that financial sustainability can only be maintained if there is no new employment and there is no further enlargement of the programme. Of course, it is both in this document, which is clearly stated in the resolution, and therefore the question is clearly raised as to how it will be implemented, as set out in the vision for this resolution, the direction that we will build a sustainable health system. Here it is worth noting that in the future, if we want to maintain rights at existing level, we will have to get very precise explanations of how the ministry imagines that public expenditure will be reduced in the share of the social product, as we can see from the table that the share of 6.37% in the social gross product for 2008 decreases to 6.28%, with private expenditure increasing from 2.45% of the social gross product in 2008 to 2.53 in 2013. Of course, this raises the question of whether it will be possible to follow the values set out in the starting point of this document. So will it be possible to achieve values such as: universality, equality and solidarity? Whether it will be possible to implement the principle of solidarity, which speaks of individuals contributing to the health system according to their ability and providing services to everyone according to their needs. In view of the forecast of the financial structure of expenditure on the health system, we see that this will not be the case. And, of course, we can't pin this on at the LDS. According to the LDS Club, the resolution does not provide answers to the essential questions about what health care and insurance should be in the future, what health and social security of insured persons should be on this basis, what will be the development of health care in the areas and areas of Slovenia, what human and other capacities we will need to do so, and how all of this should be aligned with the economic growth and power of the country and the available means of health care. Therefore, in our view, the document should be revised, amended and supplemented and, for all of this, we cannot support it at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u205	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister with co-workers, distinguished Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament. The resolution as a document of a general nature, as a framework on the national health plan 2008-2013, brings important starting points, in particular, in three areas. Firstly, it highlights the awareness of people for their own health and further outlines the development of healthcare for the period 2008 to 2013, of course within the available financial resources, with the patient acting as a partner and where prevention should have an important place in order to prevent what is yet to be done. Thirdly, to introduce a health system that will be more efficient and user-friendly. In a way, we can say that the end of our Presidency coincides with the implementation of the European Strategy into the national health plan, where the health principle for all should apply in the first place. For citizens and citizens, health means one of the goods that is at the top of the scale. That is why we rightly want to be able to find and receive adequate medical attention when we are sick. The healthcare resolution is necessary as it outlines guidelines for the functioning of the system in the future. The principles of universality, equality, solidarity, quality should not only remain on paper, but should be an additional confidence in ethical standards, which imposes the highest right attitude towards people, including the attitude towards operators and the attitude towards civil society, a quality, efficient and accessible public network, waiting periods that must be acceptable, investments where the relationship to long-term construction is unacceptable, transparency between public and private, the desire to bring the public sector closer to the rules applicable in the economy, a common personal and health card, an equal contribution rate, but a better and better quality service, an education effort to increase staff by 10%, a register of all d.o.o. i.p. dealing with healthcare activities, the integration of doctors at primary and secondary levels, the integration of pharmacies for cheaper medicines and increased supervision, these are all areas that are still important for the national plan for a five-year period, since we have not had a strategy for several years. Also in the field of legislation, the resolution provides for the legal basis for all areas to be regulated, most of them have already been adopted, and we can probably expect some changes and additions if this is shown in practice. With regard to insurance, it provides for the extension of rights in the form of subsidised supplementary health insurance from the State budget. For older citizens, however, increased capacity in hospital care units and financing of healthcare in nursing homes is planned. In particular, it seems important to us that the document supports a measure to regulate the relationship between the concessionaire, the public institution and the concessionaire. Despite the opposition's perception of the inadequateness and incompleteness of the document, the content of the resolution is supported by the general public, contractors and patients. It also means the coalition's commitment, in particular from the common strategic conclusions, that the extent to which health services are guaranteed must not be reduced and that health and health care is primarily public goods provided to all, regardless of the health, social and economic situation or the ability of individuals, and that progressive, European comparable reform processes are needed to address all weaknesses and further develop healthcare in the country. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the resolution because we believe that it creates appropriate conditions, activities and measures to strengthen the health of citizens and citizens on the basis of the actual situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u206	Thank you very much. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dear President, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Health is a value, but it is only when we lose it, when we get sick, and when we need medical attention. In Slovenia, health care is satisfactorily regulated according to our assessment, but in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are convinced that some changes and urgent measures are needed. We need to ensure an equally accessible, quality, efficient and long-term health care system. In our opinion, the health system in Slovenia should continue to be based primarily on solidarity, non-profit, fairness, equality of all insured and equal access to health services. We support and advocate reducing inequalities in health, both between sex and between regions and individuals in society. The health system must also be based on its own health care, which the state is obliged to lay down and encourage its inhabitants to abandon harmful patterns of life and to raise awareness of these same citizens. In our view, it is the country which must allow for balanced personality, economic and social development for each individual. In Slovenia, mortality for cancer and cardiovascular disease is still too high for both women and men, as well as for other injuries and accidents and suicides, compared with other successful countries in this area. One of the current health indicators is too high mortality, which is falling behind the most successful countries in this area. In the twenty years we have not made the desired progress, and the lowest in us, for example, was at the beginning of the 1990s. More movement, healthy diet, less alcohol, no smoking and other practices that harm our health are, above all, the concern of each individual. The individual's responsibility is under-emphasized and we therefore support the guidance and objectives set out in the Health Care Plan by 2013 based on the Health and Health Insurance Act and taking into account the European Union Health Strategy Guidelines, together with health, the European Union's strategic approach for the period 2008-2013, adopted by the European Council in 2007. We do well to believe that the resolution puts health and prevention at the top, highlights the importance of rehabilitating and reintegrating the already ill into the working environment, the family and the wider society. We support that the resolution has given the main role to the patient, who must have a strong say in the assessment of health services, must become an equal partner in relation to the doctor and other healthcare professionals. Effective internal and external professional supervision is also needed, of course. It is particularly important that the patient is aware of his or her rights and duties. In addition, it is necessary to ensure the efficient and quality work of the health service provider, to establish an effective and adequate health network and to shorten waiting periods, which can be achieved by better organisation and division of work between individuals at the level of health care and by taking into account public-private partnerships. The resolution defines the measures to allocate work between the primary, secondary and tertiary levels and, with appropriate supervision, the best practices at all levels are necessary. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that in planning healthcare, i.e. in the design of health policies, it must be based on the actual needs of the population and the actual situation in our society and take into account the long-term orientations. Therefore, it seems important to us that, with regard to the state of oral health of the population, the level of dental activity and the social opportunities available to us in the Republic of Slovenia may be reached in order to redefine the orientation of dental care. In addition to this, Slovenian health care is faced with a shortage of doctors and graduate nurses, weaknesses in the knowledge of the management and management of health care institutions, as well as the mentioned options for decision-making of health authorities. Management and health management must become the central theme of human resources development, management and management of public health institutions and coordination of the activities of all operators in the public health service network. In doing so, it is necessary to clearly define the situation and the correct relations of operators in the public network with operators outside the public network. We are confident that we need this plan of health care and long-term health care guidance, so we will also support the document, which, according to our assessment, is also supported by the wider Slovenian profession in this area as well as by the general public and which, according to our assessment, has broad support. We believe that a good basis for a new step in Slovenian health care is in the right direction for the care of the Slovenian patient. That's why we're going to support this document here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Zares, will be presented by Ambassador Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I intended to summarise the key points of the resolution, as I read it, regardless of the fact that I have not participated in the debate so far. But when I watched the government's representatives, while, above all, the opposition MPs, in general, Comrade Germič of LDS, were breaking up this document when I watched you and your smiles and whispers and giggles with your heads, how wrong it was, I decided not to do it. In fact, there were no such hints from the Members of the post. I will not work, but I will say something else, which I do not think is an unwise journey to the accompanying text of the Really Group, which will not support the resolution. Dear Minister, you're actually a genius. You are brilliant in yours, certainly also with well-intentioned and sincere tendencies, but brilliant in your literal pianist approach. Just like you came to the hospital, building and acting like a housewife, what are these cables here, where the workers are now, so it seems to me that you've come up with the whole health concept also in terms of, yes, where are these workers now, where are these doctors now, what is the culture of dialogue, what is the patient culture, right and so on - I'm going to make order. But you've gone to work in order with a pianist approach. On the last day or so before the end of your term, you have published an extremely beautiful document, which I absolutely agree with, including your picture here. A beautiful document that does not say that health needs to be taken care of in the manner advocated by the Minister; that the culture of employees needs to be increased; that waiting species should be reduced by means of a good information system; that telemedicine, telepharmacies should be introduced; that an active role should be given to patients; and that the interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary role and approach should be taken into account to summarise all best practices. In fact, all these principles - there is no man and there is no Member who would not support them. But the resolution is not just that. The resolution means a set of data, for which there must be a strong and clear analysis, and then measures must be more than those which are principled levels and are similar to the search for non-patients and cables lying on the ground, even though the hospital is in construction. In short, the resolution is more than a pianist approach, which is why there is a lack of text. Let us remember the times when the White Paper has seen the end of the day even within its own government, the minister, a lot of critical views, and even in some way stopping its next path. Why? Because it has been dealt with in the way of dealing with the possibilities that are, or in the context of the wishes that exist when already faced with increasing the needs that each society, not only Slovenian, will have in the field of health in the future, and even when facing the ageing population and fewer and fewer people who, to us, the elderly, will have to pay for their treatment. Because it is easy for the whole Government or the critical public to face a gap in how all these desires can actually turn into reality, facing the opportunities Slovenia has. You, of course, miss the minister. You say, "That's the kind of frog we have. But from this bag we will take to satisfaction and to cover this, this, that which is all new, because it is increasing and with which we will be able to deal with such ageing, so with new diseases, so many doctors, more construction and so on, infrastructure and all." In short, what do I mean? That your resolution is a set of great data - data, we do not dispute, all of the activities and effects of alcohol, tobacco, ageing, current networks and so on, but then these data are not compiled into such measures as a person might believe. I might therefore ask, as with other resolutions, whether this resolution, if checked by a minister or a minister each year, could be as rich and as little concrete as possible if the Minister or the Minister should, at any time of any year, withdraw or have checked its responsibility or responsibility if she deviated from the announced measures. Well, in principle, I wanted to say that this is a good pianist move with a beautiful product, with beautiful priority development areas, but with all the other questions that the responsible government has to have the answers to, of course, and it doesn't have them. The second point I would like to point out is that when we adopt this strategic document, five-year-olds [[?]] We once said that; in short, in adopting such an important strategy for us, the health system in the coming period should be involved to a greater extent by the professional public and civil society. Minister, you said today that she was involved, but at the very beginning, when you drafted this document, you avoided public hearing and did not plan it at all, after pressure from the public, of course you put this document into a 60-day hearing, but most of what we said, a hundred and more comments the ministry did not take into account. And we don't like that. As a result, I find such a blinding maneuver, which is recorded in the resolution and summarized in this leaflet, also ridiculous. You say, civil society, we want the representatives of patients and other representatives of civil society to help design health policies with their experience, so we will ensure their cooperation in the preparation of regulations and other key decisions in the field of healthcare, we will ensure regular and two-way communication with civil society ec., ec. But at the request of the opposition to consider a public debate in Parliament, in order to launch a public presentation of opinions on this document, coalition parties are, as you say, representatives of the government you represent say, "That is not so!" So, here, civil society, without it, we can't in this bank and in the text itself, which is more extensive, while in the very consideration of the five-year document, which by the way, who says that this government, which is now to execute it, will be committed to not include a public debate or a presentation of opinions. In short, the lack of coordination, which I think is particularly important, has been highlighted among others both in the Alliance of Retired Persons and in the Movement for the Conservation of Public Health, which we know covers more than 10,000 people, although we will now immediately hear that these are already gathered in accordance with what is called the principle. Another matter that is also important to mention and advise, or to say that it would be more relevant, for a coalition that is at the end of four years in power and which has now brought this document to be dealt with in parallel with another, which is under public scrutiny, is the strategic document of the Institute of Health Insurance. Only a common consideration of both documents, which are supposed to be based on the same baselines, but also need to be harmonised in key points, would such a debate be qualitative in short. After all, similar documents in other countries are coming years, as the guidelines and objectives in the resolution touch all citizens and citizens, and we are doing this a little faster with us, especially without the necessary and necessary consensus and without taking the professional public into account, regardless of what has been said today. And especially without listening to solidarity, non-profit and equality of all insured persons when we are talking about both documents. In the end, however, I will touch on something that is certainly more important or most important. The resolution results in the exercise of privacy in all spheres from operators to finance, insurance, organisation and so on. However, we have certainly not said enough about this in Slovenia, but above all there is not enough consensus, and I do not know about it. Here in this house we have not argued on this subject publicly and privately many times, but we have certainly expressed our views and there is no clear consensus. And if you're going anywhere, you should be on that level. Thus, without consensus, there will be a private domination of the public, that is undoubtedly, and a document that is before us and that I have said covers a satisfactory basis of data, but these data do not follow a solution and those clear objectives that would give sufficient confidence and hope that we will be able to correct the situation in our health care in the coming period. After all, it's not good if anyone knows it from their own experience. But, as a matter of fact. This could only be done if the resolution was adopted and based on specific objectives, clear operators, on exactly and not as flat-rately defined means as they are, and also on specified deadlines, which the Ministry should take into account, as this is also the subject of the Health and Health Insurance Act at the end of the day. In short, there are nice words. I never stand behind the solutions that just before labor, 5 minutes before 12. Promise more than ability, because of one precise principle and goal, even though this may still be honestly meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Ambassador Franz Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u211	Dear Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, as well as in the party, we support a health policy that establishes and maintains a long-term, stable, efficient and quality system based on solidarity, reciprocity and social justice. In view of the increasing ageing of the population, we are convinced that this is essential in the design of health policies, because the ageing population will require more rights every day, not just rights and healthcare services, and this is why it is so much more sensitive. The resolution of such a defined system on stability, efficiency and, of course, solidarity does not guarantee. We have been following the text of the resolution from the very beginning. For the Committee's consideration, we have proposed seven amendments summarizing the agreements contained in the coalition agreement, which unfortunately do not take place and reflect even less, of course, in this document. For example, that the extent of the health service rights guaranteed should not be reduced and to this end we said that we would prepare the professional basis for the new system legislation of voluntary health insurance by providing such a basket of allowances from the guaranteed programme, which will be available without payment and funding in accordance with full solidarity. None of this is in this document. Moreover, even though the same possibility of accessibility and of course ensuring compulsory rights is predicted, the Financial System chapter states: "The rights covered by compulsory health insurance will have to be dynamically adapted to the needs of the population in accordance with available funds and European standards." In European standards, it is not written anywhere that we will make adjustments, but that rights are guaranteed in the long term to a certain extent and will be covered by the principle of full solidarity. Here, however, you can agree today on your date of service when you are in your turn in a year, and they will say, yes, if you have 1,000 euros because the money is running out in the meantime. And this means that such starting points mean only that this equality of accessibility and equality of formal and declared rights can only be exercised by those citizens who at any given time have enough money to be able to pay additionally in the form of or shorten waiting periods through third insurance or are unable to exercise their rights. At the same time, third insurance means that those who have enough money for it also spend money on those who do not have it are considered poor and at the expense of them. We can't agree with that. We are pleased that the Committee has adopted two of our amendments, in particular those relating to palliative care, the need for more intensive development of this branch of medicine stems from the fact that, during the transition, intergenerational solidarity has begun to deteriorate and that more and more social and professional, I would say, systemic security for the long-term affected, the sick, is provided by the State and by insurance and solidarity. We regret that the text of the resolution seeks to strengthen the role of additional voluntary health insurance, which is not already covered by solidarity, but is the same as a premium for all. For those who have €5 million of net income per month, as for those who have at the bottom of the social scale, which we have calculated with the provision and the entry in the coalition contract, it has not been possible to remedy. In this respect, we stress that the current system is completely insurmountable, as it is now being marketed on the basis of health rights because it is an element of compulsory health insurance. The current text of the resolution also provides for a number of voluntary contributions, resulting in a reduction of basic rights from the basket and an even greater division and inequality between citizens. Members of the DeSUS cannot agree with this text. We believe that the importance of public health cannot and must not be reduced because it would significantly affect, not the strengthening, but the total degradation of solidarity, which we strongly advocate. And a few more words of account value that are beautifully described in this booklet. Of course, we have already said about equality, solidarity ends with voluntary insurance, by not agreeing on a system of guaranteed rights within compulsory insurance, much of the rights are covered by voluntary insurance, which will be increasingly expensive. Involvement in decision making is a well-written footnote, for there were indeed many who had the opportunity to comment. The problem is that the most important changes have not been taken into account. Of course, they were all invited and had the opportunity, but things went on, just as they were originally intended. Private work and public-private partnerships within the public interest system are too favoured. For example, with responsibility, it is interesting that it is written that at once we are responsible for the health of all of us and our and each other, the country is nowhere, although it is a matter of the State to ensure that the public interest of citizens in the field of healthcare and healthcare is realized in the system. Of course, it must always be on the side of consumers, not on the side of operators, not private ones, not those who work exclusively in the public system. We have also not realized and there is no provision for the Ombudsman, who is listed in the 7th point of the Coalition Treaty, where he is talking about the exercise of rights. We have also not increased the responsibility of management and there is no way in which we can achieve this. No one is still incarcerated or responsible for spending billions if I speak in Slovenian Tolars, illegally spent money, together collected funds in the field of healthcare and health insurance and so on. In short, this resolution sounds good, it has a great title that we agree with, and the content is poorer. And the part with which we wanted to remedy the deficit at least to some extent was rejected and because of this support it cannot get ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Resolution on the National Health Plan, we received the subtitle Satisfied users and healthcare providers. All well and good, but I think it would make sense that we also use the second phrase "satisfactory users and health care providers". For mere contentment is not enough if there is no satisfaction in one way or another. That is why I do not think that this document requires "the discovery of warm water" and that this document should be taken solely as a basis, as a basis on which to build further. The base is good enough to mean one foundation, one foundation stone on which it can be built further. But I think it's quite a few starting points that will have to be corrected, changed, refined. Especially when it comes to regulating the prices of medicines. The Regulation should be amended. In fact, the Regulation setting the prices of medicinal products for medicinal products weighing public resources should be amended at the baseline. And price regulation should not discriminate between generic and original producers. Here, the state loses enormously, and certain companies gain enormously. And covert subsidisation of the generic industry needs to be eliminated. This subsidisation is hidden as aid to national producers, but one wonders where the money goes for the purchase of medicines, if not from the state treasury. Moreover, the regulation of minimum wholesale margins and thus unjustified subsidisation of the market wholesale should be excluded from the Regulation. These margins should be marketed and the Regulation should take into account the economic criteria and the economic efficiency of determining the prices of medicinal products. Access to new, more expensive innovative medicinal products should be facilitated by introducing a system to demonstrate economic efficiency and to justify the price of the product above the maximum permitted price. The Minister's approval of the price above the maximum permitted level must be supplemented by a compulsory submission of a health economic or pharmacovigilance study justifying this. The regulation of the price of medicinal products should be transferred from the framework of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicinal products and medical devices to the ZZS, thereby reducing the moral risk of monitoring compliance with regulatory provisions and increasing the effectiveness of control. And it is necessary to introduce free pricing of medicines, of course within certain frameworks, not entirely to get into Slovenia cheap medicines of Indian, Chinese, Pakistani and I do not know what origin, as this has been happening recently in Italy and to a certain extent in Austria, but nevertheless. On the one hand, the State must give in and on the other hand must control if it wishes to see the matter settled. After all, we can also talk about orderlyness in the area of blood supply, blood donation has lost its status and has somehow splattered around Slovenia, and each one works a little on its own, especially since we end up having two blood centers, in Ljubljana and in Maribor. I think it makes more sense, given the size of Slovenia, that it would all be centralised, although some are honking at the mouth, that it is necessary to decentralise everything, including this. Well, in this rule I have been talking about, I think that the transparency of the classification of medicines should be increased, and it is imperative that this length of the procedure be eliminated. These procedures are extremely long and are probably among the longest if not the longest in Europe. I don't know who they're for, but I'm sure they're not for patients. It is also necessary to include in the classification process the criteria for economic efficiency and proof of the economic and cost-effectiveness of this classification, taking into account the therapeutic value, of course, in order to avoid losing anything else at the expense of the therapeutic value. The Commission itself, which discusses this, should take into account the cost-effectiveness analysis, and the Commission itself should include a proportionate number of healthcare professionals vis-à-vis representatives of other professions. And one more thing: the classification process must be carried out on the basis of clearly established criteria. The criteria are unclear, the criteria are often adapted to individual applicants or documentation investors, and we must not allow this to happen. And the Commission must clearly and objectively justify its decisions and also state these arguments in the minutes. Of course, this minutes must be made publicly available, if not to the general public, at least to the public concerned. And members of the Commission shall not be members of any association or society which, of course, takes any form of receiving donations from the pharmaceutical industry. The problem is that the members of the Commission who represent medicine are mainly doctors, who, on the other hand, are involved in certain societies, what I know, in the Medical Chamber, which is largely financed by the pharmaceutical industry and thus, of course, affects decisions, directly or indirectly. I think there is also a need to introduce consistent, continuous elimination of cost-effective and old medicinal products from the list, and especially of medicines that are therapeutically shown to be ineffective. After all, the example is that in Russia, 5 NOKs, five nitrooxyquinolin, which was once produced by Lek, were sold in a frenzy. Everyone knew that it was only about discoloration of urine and no therapeutic activity, but this product brought wonderful benefits to Lek. Now, if we're doing this outside of Slovenia, let's do it, but we can't do it on our own people. I also think that it is unjustifiable that the prices of medicines included in the list of ministries can only be changed twice a year. I think there should be a lot more flexible criteria here and that the prices of medicines should be much more, I would say not to certain time units, but they should be changed if necessary. But it's not like we're set twice a year and then nothing else. However, a therapeutic reference system should also be introduced, which would apply to medicinal products with advanced patent protection and generic medicinal products, while clinical pharmacists should also be introduced as a matter of urgency. Clinical pharmacists, as they know, have started with this in America, saving every Ministry of Health a lot of money mainly because they also control the mistakes made by doctors in their own country, and I will not say that when they detect diseases, but also when they make provisions or determine therapeutic steps. I also believe that it is essential to leave the Institute of Compulsory Membership in the Chambers of Interest Groups. After all, only why membership in the Medical Chamber should be compulsory. The mandatory membership of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has been dissolved, and I also think that it is necessary to allow the compulsory membership of the Medical Chamber to be abolished. These chambers should become informal institutes operating on a voluntary basis. It is also necessary to prevent these chambers from interfering with the legislation. It should also prevent the implementation of the most frequent regulations causing market distortions in health services and medicines markets. In particular, it is the enforcement of fixed prices, the prohibition of advertising and the restriction of entry into the industry and, instead of the rules of the interest groups which I have set out in the chambers, the functioning of both these markets should be defined by the legal order of the State. This is said by the Ministry's provisions, as is the case in all other markets. It is also necessary to introduce quality control of the services offered on the health market and the drug market. I know cases where these services are shaped by "ad glasses" as anyone seems. I am aware of specific cases where, on the private market, EUR 800 has been billed for the repair of one tooth, then this price has dropped 150 euros for the same awareness, and it is already 150 euros according to the revenue used, if we take the job away, at least 70%. We can't let that happen anymore. There is also a need to increase information on waiting types to individual health services and thus to increase the mobility of consumers of health services. I think it's necessary to publish public information on the productivity of individual doctors. Thus it would not have happened that we have, say, in Nova Gorica 280 patients per doctor, in Ljubljana at the Clinical Center 150 patients per doctor. With this, of course, they are in Ljubljana complaining about how they have too much work and so on. Surely it is also necessary to comb the procurement of medical equipment, which is now taking place in a very strange and untransparent way. I think that the Ministry without intermediaries can only acquire basic matters and thus save at least 30% of the money that we give to some gentlemen directly in our pocket. In this case, I don't think we can agree to such a strange option. Once again, I would say that the health system must be regulated by means of the legal system and not by means of regulations generated by stakeholders in the health sector and in the pharmaceutical sector or by means of a capital limitation according to their origin. Despite the fact that I am a pharmacist after my education, I am opposed to having the pharmaceutical industry make up the fate of Slovenian patients, and I do not think we should allow that. I think it would make sense to privatise all non-clinical activities. Why not? Why such fear in doctors to privatize such matters? I think that makes sense and that it would be good to make things right. In this regard, it may also make sense to change or reorganise the current legal form of hospitals and turn them from public institutions to economic societies. This would certainly change the management of these hospitals, and what would happen would greatly improve the situation in this area, that is, simply to say, not the hospital chiefs' doctors, the doctor as the hospital chief has never done anything good for the hospital, the hospital chief should be the manager, the doctor should be the professional manager with the manager, but not that the doctor then works one way or another, and often also contaminates with those providers on the left or right, and also has a double function. If a doctor is a hospital manager, he will have difficulty in doing his own medical work, which the doctor does not give up, he still wants to be a doctor and still wants to be a hospital director. Otherwise, to conclude that I will not speak too long, I think this resolution is good as a basis, it has to be upgraded, of course, probably in the next term, I think the Minister is doing well, and we will support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u214	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u215	Nice greetings to all those who are with us or we have been together since the early morning hours, as well as the entire ministerial team of the Ministry of Health! I will start with more or less rhetorical questions, which I believe reach into the heart of every individual who meets the blockade, a blockade on the health services side. Have you noticed that the number of health services you have to pay out of your pocket is increasing from day to day? Have you noticed that all patients who can do this financially with a curve through a private doctor reduce the waiting period for examinations and interventions, while for all others waiting is prolonged? Even for people, cancer patients, waiting periods for urgent examinations are long, too long. Have you noticed that some make an excellent living with the money you pay into or for health care insurance? Have you noticed that there are already patients among us who do not have enough money to provide access to needed medicines and treatment? And not least, did you notice that no one asked you for an opinion when you and your family were denied health insurance rights? These are questions that are not meant to be. Civil society also deals with these issues. This is the segment that the Ministry of Health is expected to give him in the context of the new national plan, the resolution, for the period 2008-2013, a special place and a special role in the health system. However, when reviewing this extensive document, which has very well collected some data on health status, on environmental impacts on health, this document does not identify the real role that civil society should play in the design of health policy. It is also true that the comments made by civil society on the draft resolution on the national health plan prepared by the Ministry of Health have not been taken into account. The comments were not taken into account! If I concentrate just for a moment, because one of my colleagues presented to me in more detail this new government memo, a memo from the Ministry of Health. If I focus on the 7th page where values are listed: health, universality, equality, solidarity, inclusion, quality, responsibility, trust, ethical conduct. Tell me which of these values is present today in the Slovenian health system or within the Ministry of Health, which is shaping the policy in this area. Ethical behavior. Do you know what corruption has been committed for almost four years under the authority of this government, within the Ministry of Health?Oh, my God! Ethical behavior. Really, I'm asking you. Trust. Do citizens and citizens today really have confidence in health policy? To pay so that they can skip the species to get to the doctor in time. Responsibility. Did we witness in this mandate that someone who should be responsible was truly responsible for his actions? Did any of those persons who were even forcibly removed from a chair, the highest chair in the ministry, actually be held accountable for their irregularities, poor politics, quality? Are we really still able to speak and boast about quality public health services today? So, those services to which all citizens and citizens have access, regardless of their status. So, even those who, I'll say, are from the social bottom. Involvement. If we had 100% involvement in quality public health services, we probably wouldn't be talking about pay or envelopes in health care and so-called species skipping. Equality. Equality in the system that favours the payment of services that favours concessions, privacy, good earning in the context of health services, equality, unfortunately, we cannot talk. Universality. Access to healthcare must be made available to everyone. Yeah, it will be, but those who don't have it just have to wait a little longer and get worse services than those who have it first. They get health services, better health services, because they can pay for it, they can afford it. That's the universality we have in our country. And last but not least, in the beginning, I stop in health. That's what we're about. I believe we're all united. Health, this is the greatest value of an individual, family and society, which at the same time means quality of life. But, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we talked a little bit about health, do you know what it means for a man who's been hit by fate on the back, health when he's out of health? Such a man is neglected and forgotten by our social state. At the previous point, I spoke or talked to one of the previous points about people who, because of health, cannot be actively involved in the labour market anymore. These are the people who are disabled for part-time or full-time retirement. These are the kind of people this country leaves behind. Hello, I'll give you another case. I was contacted days ago by a relatively young boy from Maribor, who was hit so hard by illness or by life fate that he was on a wheelchair. The boy has cerebral paralysis, which has progressed so much over the last period that he can no longer perform work that he can no longer control his fingers. And this guy's waiting on, I'll say, at the will of the state or by the disability commission he'll get a recognised category of disability so he can retire with disabilities and get the means to live. But the state apparatus grinds and grinds the decision - it is the fate of man - grinds and grinds after months. For four months this boy, who has been deprived of that highest value - health, waiting for the will of the country, for those few euros, so that he can survive as normal as he can, if we can call it. Someone said that this document addressed to the Members of the National Assembly today by the Ministry of Health was a bad copy of the shit nest. Because the shit is more arranged than what's written in this document. This document is a bad copy or a bad summary of this document of the Resolution on the National Health Programme for the coming period. Why? And I'm going to try very, very short-circuited. Because the resolution reduces the importance of public health at the expense of private health and reduces the role of the state in health care. It puts the whole responsibility on an individual. The individual is fully responsible for his health, not more than a country, an individual. This resolution reduces the share of public funding and increases the volume of private funding. At the same time, this resolution indicates a significant increase or increase in health expenditure. But at the same time, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are downsizing or we have a forecast of reduced levels of health rights, which, last but not least, means increasing the inequality of citizens. The document supports the introduction and strengthening of private health insurance and even provides for tax reliefs. This is advised by all health economists, since this means increased regression in the financing of health care, which in other words means that tax relief for rich people is paid by increased taxes virtually everyone, including poor people or those who are not so wealthy that they can afford it. It is not true that additional insurance, public-private partnership and the inclusion of private capital will in themselves increase efficiency, the use of funds and thus make health services accessible. International experience proves otherwise - the introduction of a private interest into the public health system reduces the efficiency of the use of funds. In this document, the country is shamelessly predicting that it will not provide sufficient public capacity while supporting an increased number of private operators. The state says, and I will quote: "As the capacity in the public network will not increase sufficiently, in line with needs, the share of private contractors and contractors in the public-private partnership will increase." Less doctors are also expected. The State envisages co-financing of health services, even to operators without a licence. On the one hand, the State is therefore planning to develop insufficient public capacity and, on the other hand, foresees payment of part of its prices or even of its price to a private person without a concession. And when we heard today that this resolution was supposed to be in line with the guidelines adopted within the framework of the European Union. That's not true. That's not true! Europe, the European Council is very clear that healthcare funds are increasing in the OECD countries. They grow 1.7 times faster than GDP, nor does the share of public funds fall, except for the transition countries. And you know, in these transition countries, the Republic of Slovenia also belongs. I'm sorry. This document, hand to heart, reduces funds for public health. And that's bad. The share of gross social product to be allocated to the health system is decreasing. This is primarily at the expense of public health. And public health, public health services should be quality and accessible to all citizens and citizens. This resolution, to a large extent, constitutes a departure in the base or base. Derogation from the fundamental values we represent not least Members of the Lip Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Bručan will present the position of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u217	Mr. President-in-Office. Madam Secretary with the team. Colleagues and colleagues. I will present the opinion of the SDS Group on the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2008-2013, and I do not want to argue with some of the predecessors who represented the views of individual parliamentary groups, and there are two reasons for this. One is that we present not our views, but the views of the Group of Members, on the other hand, that some of the presentations were such that they cannot be answered in the light of some of the shortcomings. In the SDS Group, we stress and welcome the motion for a resolution on the national healthcare plan 2008-2013. We believe that this resolution needs to be adopted as soon as possible, because of the development and functioning of healthcare. We support the resolution in particular because of the values on which the guidelines of the plan are based, that is, universality, by which access to health care, equality, solidarity, quality and trust must not be denied to anyone. We have been preparing a resolution in Slovenia, or we have been preparing a national health plan in Slovenia for quite some time, practically all of this mandate, and it is therefore more surprising to some that this resolution is now ready quickly. This is, in fact, inconsistent with the findings that have been emerging all the time during this mandate regarding the national healthcare plan. It is worth recalling in particular some of the preparation of the national plan in the past, healthcare in the past, the one in 1996 that was launched in 1996 and adopted only in 1999 just before the end of the mandate of the then government. The national programme, which at the time regulated the area of health care, was then in force until 2004, was relatively well prepared in the preparatory work, and later in some areas in the foreword, it was "spitted" in its entirety and was practically very difficult to implement until the end of its operation by 2004. During the 2000-2004 mandate period, an attempt was made to draw up a new national plan, i.e. four years, but in the course of the previous government this attempt was fully declared and could not be prepared. That is why the current government, with its performance in 2004, came to a complete void in this area and had to start again. The task of the current government was to draw up a new national health plan without one serious proposal from the previous government, which has expired and, at the same time as the mandate has expired, practically the previous healthcare plan. It should be emphasized here that the current resolution or the current national health plan has been drawing up for a very long time, throughout the duration of the mandate of this government, so that we cannot say that it is not ready in a professional way, that it is ready quickly and that it is prepared without taking into account the opinions and proposals of the interested public. The network needed to be developed primarily at the basic level and the network was developed at the secondary level. Of course, the discussion of the plan itself has been conducted at various levels throughout the mandate of this government, various meetings have been organised, I must say, politically very different thinking people to draw up such a healthcare plan. The proposal for this resolution on the National Health Plan is a basic document for the development of healthcare in the coming five-year period and the legal basis is set out in the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides that Slovenia plans development opportunities and needs with health plans, health facilities. The proposal for a national plan or resolution takes into account the guidelines of the European Health Strategy adopted by the European Council in 2007. An analysis of the health status of the population has been made for its preparation, ensuring the need for comprehensive health care and also taking into account human resources and other capacities, and providing for measures to improve the situation. I must say that at the time of the drafting of this resolution, a series of consultations took place and allowed all interested parties more than 60 days to deliver opinions, initiatives and proposals. And in the course of the public debate, many meetings were convened with a number of experts and an interested public, where everyone could also make proposals and initiatives. On the basis of that possibility, it arrived together in February and March this year as I know some of the 100 proposals for supplementing the resolution, and several of these proposals were adopted. It is clear, however, that all proposals can never be accepted, since they are, after all, also diametrically opposed. And they were all involved or not, carefully examined and included in the plan, unless they substantially deviated from the basic concept. The involvement of the public concerned has had a particularly strong impact on the design of certain chapters, such as health care for people with disabilities, dental care, transfusion medicine, laboratory medicine and could also be listed. The strategy for the development of health care is based on already adopted strategic documents at national level, the main focus of which is the shift towards preventive measures and health care, which are the responsibility of both the State and the local community as well as individuals. This provides for an increase in the share of prevention funds from the current 3-4% to 5% and will result in greater rationalisation in the health sector. A few more words about many controversy over the breakdown of public health in Slovenia over the last four years. This resolution is only reflected in some observations concerning the degradation of public health and the "force" or favouring privacy. With the proposal for this national plan, it is not a matter of decomposition of public health as it has never been during this period, within this government's mandate, to decommission public health. The public health system has been improving, improving all the time, and the results are visible if anyone wants to see them, if they don't want them, then it's not possible. It is worth noting that, according to the national plan, the funds for compulsory and additional health insurance will increase over the next five years and will not be reduced by an absolute amount. The poor and the elderly will not do anything worse, even better, as the national plan does not reduce the rights of compulsory and supplementary health insurance and provides for an increase in allowances in the form of supplementary health insurance subsidies by the budget. Especially for the elderly, there is an increase in capacity in nursing departments of hospitals and in nursing homes for the co-financing of health care. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs regulates the provision of additional care to the elderly, since they are substantively part of their field of work. In the SDS Group, according to the national plan reports, we do not believe that the plan as currently envisaged does not give priority to privacy and the rich, on the contrary, the current system of social-led health is only upgrading and improving. The national plan does not reduce access to services, but this access increases, for example, in the waiting period objectives. And if this national plan or resolution, once it retains the current system for regulating waiting periods, we will see that these objectives can actually be achieved. After all, he is already on the right track to substantially reduce waiting periods. Once again, I will highlight just a few waiting periods from the previous government period, waiting periods for open-heart surgery, waiting periods for colonography, waiting periods for the operation of the grey eclipse, for the magnetic resonance and beyond, for the number 14 could have come, these waiting periods have been reduced even ten times during this time, during this government. None of the opposition wants to see or acknowledge this, but it's true. Of course, there's data for that. Just as I can say that there is no favored privacy anywhere in this resolution, just as it was during the time of this government's mandate and this coalition has actually been trying to convince the population of how to favour privacy. That's not true at all. Privacy has not been favoured and is not favoured by the resolution at this time. The number of concessions granted, which remain within the public health system, did not increase on average per year, on the contrary, even in some areas even decreased. And this resolution of this matter only further regulates and, of course, also allows for a normal transition, or a transition between concessionaires where necessary. The measures of this national plan are also part of the agreed increase in the salaries of healthcare workers and the introduction of new health plans, which will not endanger the existence or the functioning of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, even for a longer period, since in Slovenia we have an established Bismarck model for collecting contributions and a solidarity model for financing healthcare. On this basis, there is a legal partnership model that regulates some of the basic starting points for the functioning and stability of the healthcare system and the ZZS, and the Health Insurance Office is only one of these partners. With regard to my introduction, when I said that it was difficult to discuss with some of the speakers who presented their opinions before me, I will only say two things. This is a casual discussion with some who do not distinguish between additional and complementary health insurance and do not distinguish between the public health system and the private health system, as both private and state institutions operate at the basic level within the public system, such as health homes. In view of everything, I can say that in the SDS Group, I reiterate, we welcome the motion for a resolution and we will fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u218	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the motion for a resolution. Member Ivan Grill has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues and co-worker! Allow me to congratulate you, as well as your colleagues, on this extensive document that has been given great effort. For quite some time you have prepared this document, coordinated and now we have here a product that I think shows the true guidelines for our development in the field of health. The very address or slogan you listed here in this brochure "Satisfactory users and providers of health services" - I think it is a completely new, modern approach that combines both those we need and, finally, those who offer or implement them. And it is precisely the cooperation that can bring synergies, higher quality, lower costs and, of course, also the achievement of this key objective, or objectives, which you have clearly stated here. The key objectives of the resolution are: healthy citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, satisfied users and healthcare providers. I am confident that these objectives will also be achieved by pursuing all these starting points. This document, which we are considering now, is practically the first document since 2000, which gives new guidance, as I have already mentioned, in the field of health. The findings of some of the debaters, who, while representing the views of the groups of Members, have often been inaccurate, misleading, show a lack of awareness of this area. Some of them, I am sure, have not even read the resolutions, but have been unduly criticized and tried to make the areas of health in Slovenia look bad. I'm sure that's not true. It is clear that there was no public presentation of the opinions. It is true that we did not have it in the National Assembly because, I think, we would not need it, because it would not contribute to any better content in any way, because as long as you had it published publicly, where all those interested, the professional public, then also interested groups, could in any way be associated with the preparers of this material and you have taken these comments into account at least that way has already been presented. That I am correct shows the following information, and even then we have advocated that sufficient general debate may be held on the Health Committee itself, where we have discussed this resolution for a long and broad time. The chairman of the committee listed or stated in that list, and invited them, a very wide range of interested public, the professional public, whoever wanted to attend, but there were very few. Apparently they had no interest, but they would also have had the opportunity to discuss it there. Their proposals could also be taken into account if they were constructive if they did not change the concept. Even all the parliamentary groups or Members who are discussing such a vehement debate today were not there to discuss these matters constructively. By making it clear with this resolution that we have no document in Slovenia that would pave the way for health care. This is a document that is planned somewhere for a five-year projection in the future, and this is a document that can only provide some guidance, but cannot contain such a document with concrete conclusions or some, if we call it action plans and measures, which will have to be strictly enforced or even accepted, that we will pursue these objectives. Because the health sector is so rapidly changing that perhaps a number of concrete proposals or activities that would have been recorded in this resolution would have to change over a year or two because of some new approaches to improvement. We have also taken part in the perception that there are no concrete analyses and data in this resolution on the basis of which some conclusions could then be drawn. I myself do not see this document or the need in this document that all those things that are publicly available are now back on record for a long and wide record that we then have a few hundred pages extensive document that no one will be able to read. Today, it was once again a dilemma that we do not know what the area of concessionaires brings in Slovenia, or some even try to attribute it to some private health care. This information is already well - known to more or less people. Many of the surveys published publicly by our users clearly show that 66% of the people treated by concessionaires are more satisfied with services than they were before they decided to be treated by concessionaires. 32% are those who feel no difference and only 2% are those who have estimated that the level of services offered by the concessionaire is poorer. I think that this is a sufficiently eloquent information, which I do not think is necessary to record in the resolution as well. The waiting hours. I think that the Ministry of Health, even in recent months we have had many discussions, has been shown with all the figures in which waiting periods have also been reduced and there have been virtually all areas, exclusively in the field of orthopaedics, and we also know why it has not been able to reduce as much as you would like, while elsewhere these things have been more or less substantial, significantly shorter. Then let's not talk about the time of hospital treatment. All this information that is necessary to prepare a document for further development has been published in a number of documents, is also available on the Ministry's pages and anyone who wants to look at them can also look at them and then also see whether these guidelines given by this resolution are following these objectives. As I have mentioned, health care is certainly an area that receives many changes mainly through new methods, treatments, new medicines, and this is certainly what will in the future increase the quality of health or treatment, greater healing, and, last but not least, costs with more effective methods can be reduced, and in this area, a new philosophy of each of us must be introduced and this resolution follows. Health care, I think that it is the responsibility of each individual, for if we do not care in our way of life that we live healthy lives, that there will not be so many opportunities to get sick, no curative treatment or treatment can do the same or fully restore health if because of unhealthy lifestyles we actually get some disease. So this is certainly an emphasis that we must put in place both in Slovenia and in Europe, so that we are all aware of it and I think we will gain it primarily by ourselves. There were also some indications that this document was shrinking or that a projection of the reduction in health funds was being shown. That's not true either. However, the resolution states that the Minister has repeatedly said that in the field of health there are so many reserves that can be saved, but not at the expense of the quality and accessibility of health care. But with new methods, with better organisational receptions, including the prices of medicines listed here in the resolution nicely, much will be possible to save and this saved money will be earmarked for new treatment methods, for new programmes and, of course, for the expansion of the health network. To this end, information has recently been presented that in the area of colon cancer treatment can be used with screening methods, which are now being implemented in Slovenia with the help of the Ministry, saves or saves up to three times or three times less resources for successful treatment, as this is a new approach, early detection, and also more successful treatment, and this money can be allocated for other purposes. Such flat-rate readings are not in place and are misleading. Here, the power to understand is clear in this resolution and it is clear that public health or public health is a key focus. After all, the concessionaire is finally in the public health network, and it is also right that we are also trying to provide all our citizens and citizens with affordable health services, especially as much as possible free of charge. And it is for those people who are the most socially weak that the Government has already addressed the proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will also enable people who are socially weak to pay for those additional health services that they have not yet had. It means that there are objectives and measures, and this is not recorded in the resolution, but every responsible government, as well as the next I am sure, will be aware of these responsibilities and will try to do so. Our health system is also based on, at least so it is written in the resolution, solidarity, meaning that this will also preserve the current way, and all of these are qualities that provide the same or higher level of health services in Slovenia as we have and, of course, we will keep it that way. The resolution itself, I think, is an excellent starting point for all new laws, for all the new measures that this government will continue to take, and also for all citizens and citizens of our country. Of course, I will be happy to support the resolution alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u220	Thank you, too. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister, all co-workers and co-workers. Of course, my colleagues and colleagues. The material alone was extensive, so I will help myself in the debate with a brochure that I think is very systematic through the content of this resolution alone. I think that it is correctly stated on the first pages of the resolution itself that health is certainly one of the most important social themes, even for us as politicians, of course, it is one of the most important and also one of the most sensitive topics that need to be handled with extreme care. In the area of health, people are faced with border situations where we are of course particularly sensitive at the same time, and we know that that is why the temptation to exploit this situation for business purposes can also be very great, so I think it is extremely responsible and difficult for the ministry and every government to maintain a healthy, harmonious state in this area. The fact is that Slovenia faces major changes in the population itself and probably a system that is huge if we look at the resolution and how many areas it covers, it is very difficult to follow the changes in the situation in the family. Therefore, I think it is necessary to reconsider how health activities in Slovenia are taking place, and a certain change is necessary. Every seven years, if we call it that, it is imperative to look at and think things over and change as quickly as possible. I myself could add a more ambitious view of the matter in the rhetorical field. I don't think a patient can just be a partner in the health system. The patient must be if we express ourselves a little business, King. As in the business world, as in the world, for example, tourism and hospitality are said to be a guest king, even in the health system, everything must be subordinate to the patient. I therefore think that this resolution is trying to follow this direction, but I hope that it will be a starting point for legislation that is even more ambitious than this resolution. If we go through certain key things that are listed here. In Slovenia, the relative low confidence of patients in the entire health system is observed. Therefore, I think it is essential that the resolution considers this as one of the essential values. In fact, we know that we are currently in a transitional period where patients observe extremely large differences in the behaviour or functioning of those who provide health services. If we limit ourselves to medical personnel, we have very large differences here, and sometimes we cannot get rid of the feeling that doctors are actually the ones who are kings or half the gods. There are still cases of medical personnel acting this way. On the other hand, we have an extremely good staff in Slovenia, an extremely self-sacrificing cadre, which takes up its work as actually some kind of human service. And on this I think that there is and maintains a very good quality on average in health care in Slovenia. Reinforcement and health protection, prevent. If you talk to older doctors, general doctors, they observe and point out that in the last ten years, perhaps ten years, this preventive level has begun to decline. And it seems correct to me that the resolution points to this and that it also tries to introduce certain mechanisms through legislation to encourage people and, at the same time, to make them take better care of their health and act in a timely manner if they notice changes and at the same time live a healthier life. With regard to early detection of cancer in view of the situation in the EU, we know that one in three already suffers from cancer, one in four, at least after the statistics I know, are subject to this. I think it is high time to give a substantial amount of attention and that, not only in addition to diagnosis, timely diagnosis, but also action. I think that action is still a very weak point in Slovenian health care, precisely in the area of cancer. As far as health care is concerned, the regulation of the public network. I think this thing's been going on too long. This is a matter that needs to be settled for once. I think that this resolution is being taken up, but it is likely that legislation, which covers a considerable spectrum of other policies, will have to agree on this once and for all as soon as possible. It is necessary to agree on a basic standard to be enjoyed by each patient, regardless of where he or she is staying, and then it is also necessary to ensure this 100%. Not as it is now, there are places where people actually cannot get basic health care in time. Much has already been said about the effective delivery of health services today and the waiting periods. I think it is actually possible to take a few smaller steps that are already taking place, namely legislation, but they are still too small. In particular, I note that supervision of the delivery of health services is relatively weak and that the operators' room of manoeuvre in certain segments is too large and that, let's say, a banal case cannot provide a minimal diagnosis for, I don't know, some toothache for the child and, on the basis of this, it increases its pain, but also the use of media devices, and therefore the whole system is being costed. I think only certain details in the entire system need to be looked at and corrected here. With regard to the reduction of waiting periods. Here, I would particularly appeal to this, including this resolution at the principal level, mainly that diagnostics be carried out immediately. Even so, I have noticed that he is very eager to do so. But I think this is one big problem right now. It's too long a waiting period to figure out the causes of a disease. I understand that perhaps waiting periods can then not be set aside overnight for action only in those cases that are not urgent. However, if a system or a doctor does not take a patient who turns to him seriously, especially in order to find out the causes, I do not think this is best. However, it is also indicated in one of the indents that effective implementation of the patient’s overall medical treatment is carried out. It says here with chronic conditions. However, in the current situation, we are faced with the fact that, in fact, only a general doctor is trying to see an integral picture, but it is stuck if a patient is faced with two problems at the same time, where he is hospitalized on one occasion, of course he cannot be hospitalized at the same time, if the hospital is not dealing with this content and can remain a more fundamental problem and sometimes these comprehensive treatments of the patient are no longer than it used to be or as I think it used to be. Maybe just the last part. Medicinal products and medical devices. While the resolution also mentions an increase in the control of the field of medicines and medical devices. As I have already mentioned, throughout the patient's treatment system, more up-to-date diagnostics are likely to prevent increased drug use even when it is rightly prescribed and, of course, the entire healthcare system would be highly undervalued. Of course, we know that the whole pharmaceutical industry is a very strong lobby and, from this point of view, it must also be understood that it is difficult to balance on the one hand the need for patients’ medicines and on the other hand the ambition of the pharmaceutical industry to sell as many of its products. Perhaps I would point out here only that the information provided here may, in my opinion, be a very good tool in achieving these objectives, which I have mentioned in particular with regard to the fact that if a patient turns to any doctor at the time of on-call, an information technology can be used to get treatment immediately so that it does not happen as it does, that a patient visits seven outpatients while five doctors are ready to take time and discuss that they are not competent to review instead of at least thoroughly inspect and act. That's still happening. About the financial system. Among doctors and users who are often guests, I can say that it is the belief that these financial means now available from compulsory health insurance would make it possible to do much more and I think that the first step of the Ministry of Health should be to give a good overview of the system of supervision immediately to amend it with legislation. In particular, as I am aware, it is a little difficult to control the private sector in particular, thus allowing the funds already earmarked to be used more rationally. It is heard, unofficially, by various stories also from public institutions, including the fact that certain doctors market a certain number of beds, that patients pay the concessionaires on the basis of Bianca's signed advance statements, I have experienced this myself. Services that the health insurance company didn't pay after I requested the account specification, I didn't get it, and I didn't get the account. In this regard, of course, most patients may not even be able to complain, nor do they hope to ask about such a situation. I hope that these are just exceptions, but we really need to know that a patient who needs medical attention is often not a good complainant simply because of the fear of his existence and his health. In short, to conclude, I support this resolution myself, I think it is necessary that the basic concept is good, as I said, but I think that legislation should be even more ambitious in terms of control than the content of the resolution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u222	Thank you, too. Member Marian Drofenik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I would say that, given this resolution, that health care is one of the fundamental benefits of humanity, which each country must organise to its population within material means, of course, by means of control mechanisms, that the funds invested in this sector, if so expressed, are used rationally or that the benefits are optimal. In my humble opinion, the problems of Slovenian health care are not in the knowledge or expertise of employees, probably not in the equipment, but I hope to say with certainty that there are problems in the organization of work, are in the combination of various matters and I think that they would do the most if they were to take a deep look at the organization or that it would not happen that you were ordered one Monday to an intervention, but you arrive at eight and wait until 11 and are excused that they have forgotten to tell you immediately that you will not be operated today. This is happening, whether you believe it or not. It would mainly touch the primary levels of health care, mainly in less populated rural areas from what I actually come from when, at large distances, there are relatively few people living on large areas. There should be no regret for us to be a bit more concerned and perhaps a slightly higher standard that we would put in, because whenever you do some of the regulations, these norms are born when you come from a densely populated area not some sparsely populated area. And then they become statistically big problems and, say, you can't get, for example, 20 kilometers away from some licensing center for a pharmacy. That was my problem so many years ago because there were 2,000 people missing. Above all, it is necessary to find the possibility that these areas will be given a sufficient number of doctors. Unfortunately, we already have a number of problems today, and we must not, in my opinion, resolve these areas by elegantly joining some of the larger centres and perhaps by using this centre to cover in some way that we will have at least a peaceful conscience. I think that this primary level, especially family medicine, is the one that must have permanent staff, permanent doctors and must be located in those areas as well. The problem in general medicine is already emerging and many in rural areas cannot be obtained by doctors. I think that this issue is necessary, including through the network, and over it needs to be touched. I'd also like to touch the pharmacy business. When I read this material, I was almost saddened when I read that there must be at least 400 meters between the two pharmacies and that there must be 7,000 inhabitants. Of course, as you bring it back to the countryside and so on, these norms are not so easy. And many of the private pharmacists who cover the population of 6,000 patients or patients or those who use these services actually think that with these prices, with the compensations they receive for this part, where we know that in such areas there are fewer commercial sales of cosmetics and I do not know what else is being sold in pharmacies, of course the problem of these pharmacies is much greater and I would ask or appeal that more is done in these matters. I would lean on or mention dentistry. Dentistry is generally possible in rural areas where we have dentists, well arranged, but of course there is a problem that dentists will slowly begin to lack. In the end, I'd say that. At the primary level, it is my opinion that we should not be afraid of granting concessions, because we may be able to interest and motivate some doctors in order to obtain, and I think, by issuing concessions, at least in this rural area, a wide range of arrangements within the public health network of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The word is given by Ambassador Willy Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Because I have very little time to talk more in the dark, it's going to be hard to elaborate. However, to begin with, let me say that I will not wipe out my tears of happiness, as some have tried, with the perfection of this resolution and I will not kiss the drafters. Otherwise, the resolution is extensive, and it is difficult to take it into our hands. I can tell you that I, too, judge that a lot of work has been put into this. But for those who are not accustomed to hard reading, it is likely that this instant was prepared that could be even thinner. It would be enough if we had a first and second page to see how satisfied users are, how satisfied health care providers are, how good it would be if we were to move around a lot, drink lemon juice and eat carrots, and it would be enough for our optimism in the field of health. Of course, if it wasn't in obvious conflict with reality. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot support this resolution. I will say this more timidly, that once again the mighty finger of the Secretary of State would not be lifted up very high, which, like in Maribor, would call me a non-European thinker and a slave MP and mayor, but I must say that I am not happy with everything. I'll tell you about the experience. I've been mayor for years. I've been in health since 1992. It says here that concessions are simple administrative procedures. Yeah, who told you that? It was always a procedure, an eminent political decision that was really made in some administrative process. But someone had to decide how health care would be organised at the primary level, for example, and such an important decision then went into the administrative procedures that had to be carried out. Concessions were very often the opposite - an instrument for blackmail or threatening those in public health institutions that did not want to take care of the network. And on my experience, I can tell you that when I couldn't get a dentist, I said, okay, guys, concession, and he was a dentist right away. There was no pediatrics, I said, okay, guys, and there'll be concessions. And it was a pediatrician right away. In short, this problem you are describing here is completely different, not so easy, that it is only for the mayors to decide and that it is only in their interest, as I quote the minister who told the mayors at a meeting. So, it's some completely different, more serious problems that we face in the field, and now we're staying with this resolution of mayors there than we are standing in the middle of the desert, waiting for someone to bring us something to drink - aid from the Ministry of Finance is not, except "let's be satisfied" but it's more about self-satisfaction. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u226	Thank you very much. However, Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. In the municipality where I am mayor, in the same role as my fellow speaker, we also made a resolution on the municipal or regional plan for health care and, of course, this resolution and cooperation with the competent institutions were based on us. You know very well, perhaps already, Madam Minister, that we have strong representation on both a secondary and a primary level. The resolution is simply necessary in life because it is the basis for our further work. And the commitment to follow the steps set out in the resolution is also continuing the path of health development. Any resolution would be or will be, we would never be satisfied with it. The resolution is therefore the basis. However, let me tell you something, five essential elements, which I think should be defined, but unfortunately for some reasons they are not, I am speaking in concrete terms. First, I would like to go to pediatrics, which appears both in our region and elsewhere and in a major problem. In connection with emergency medical care for paediatric patients. As far as I know, last year the Health Council discussed the establishment of on-call paediatric centres for children and adolescents. A network has been developed, but this proposal is not contained in the resolution. So, after all that has been done, this proposal is not contained in the resolution. Why would he be needed? Because these paediatric centres are supposed to be involved in the emergency medical care network because of the availability of modern outpatient treatment of children and adolescents at primary and secondary levels 24 hours a day. I think there's been a lot of talk about this, and I think it's a measure that's needed and connected. And another is related to pediatrics, i.e. centres at the primary, secondary level, reachable 24 hours a day, emergency medical care, all of which is linked to information that I think should be stated in the resolution - human resources policy is an important policy. According to the data I have obtained, the retirement period by 2013 should require 55 specialisations for paediatric patients at the secondary level and according to the data I have, about 180 paediatrics at the primary level. This need is some indicator, and I think that such a large number of needed pediatricians is information or is a requirement that the resolution should contain. And as I am, Madam Minister, you know, I am also a great advocate of the existence of a network of general hospitals in Slovenia, i.e. all those who are, I would never like to oppose enlargement, so that there would be more hospitals, and you absolutely know that I am a great opponent in any kind of change or withdrawal. Therefore, I think it would be right for the resolution to specify that the existing network of general hospitals should be maintained. Specifically in Trbovje and Zasavje, because it is ugly to hear, only the hospital is the second largest company, not the company, but it is very necessary, the desired institution, but the second largest company after everything it does, and people love it and people need it, as well as in Brežice as well as throughout Slovenia. The question is that the resolution, as for the primary level, should also set coverage for the secondary level. In the resolution, at least I did not see in the resolution what the network of hospitals would be like in the next period. And the manning. As my distinguished client colleague said, I would not want to over-intrude on housing organizations, especially when it comes to staffing, but it would be good to leave the workforce to the environment in which doctors and medical personnel work. I hope, in good faith and in substance, that very important data are to be entered into the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u228	Thank you very much. However, Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, Madam Minister with colleagues. The basis of the document, I believe, is a good enough document to further build this unfinished medical story, which we will not end in this mandate and probably not in the next term. To think that health is certainly the most important value, the word spoken so many times at such and different events, which we are aware of especially when we need it. Unfortunately. Words such as solidarity, justice, equality, accessibility are big words, important words that we like to say, which are easier to write on a document, are more difficult to implement and achieve than this document has in this resolution, which is well-intentioned, but will depend primarily on people working in this health care and ultimately on what is crucial, financial resources. Are these financial resources adequate enough for this resolution to be implemented in this part, or in the future? This is a question likely to be answered by the minister or only by the ministry. However, I think that what is prepared is that this scope of work is good, that probably a lot of effort has been put into this general document that wants to move forward, and also this piece of paper that we got, a document that we liked, kind, well-intentioned. But this is, as I said, all of this depends primarily on the people who are employed in this system who want to and who can do it even better than they are doing today. Waiting age, eternal problem today, yesterday, certainly even tomorrow. Unfortunately, there is also money that can shorten or even prolong these waiting periods - we want or we don't want, these are facts from practice, from life. At the primary level, I can say, the matter is good, satisfactory, from the congregation to the congregation can be different, from environment to environment, but generally speaking, things here seem to be successful, regardless of the public network, regardless of those outside, the private and so on. In short, it depends largely on the local community, on those who are still in the public sector or in public health, as well as those who are outside it. I think that this co-existence, and if properly arranged, can be successfully managed in this story, but it also depends on leadership, which, in my opinion, supports the views of those that it is not always the key that the director of the institution, one such or another, is a doctor. Far from this, doctors are still lacking in the Slovenian space and why he should still be the director of either such or that institution. This thought goes slowly out of this system, that it was more or less history, and that in the future, it should be managers, economists, those who can run successful institutions, with a professional director who can cover the expertise. In short, I am sure that, this foundation will be good, that there are still reserves in every public sector, as well as in health care, still large, that there are still many things that can be saved, such as the euro, for the sake of general work. I wouldn't lose words about drug evaluation because we know that the story where this lobby is extremely strong is by manufacturers who are successful lobbyists who [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They work well and have a special place. [[...]] The resolution is a good path for the future, for the success of health care in Slovenia and I hope that we will follow it in this part too. But most of all, I bet on my own concern for my health with the most healthy way of life - how much this costs me as a policy - and I trust mainly in these own abilities and that I can be my own best doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u230	You, too. But the secretary has the floor. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u231	Thank you very much. So that I may add or interpret a little bit, because many questions arise as to how well things are written down, it is pianically written that the situation is, of course, very different. That's right. Here's the long-term plan. By no means are we there today what the plan says, for otherwise we would not have to do it if things were as they were meant to do. That is why, at the outset, I really want to stress that we have drawn paths and also values where we would like to go. We have not written down one value in this, and that is the truth. Because I felt that this value was actually somehow at home. But today I've heard some of these perceptions that don't really take these values into account, and I have to mention that it's really always surprising to me. Because health is, of course, particularly for those who do not have enough or who are in a difficult situation, it is all the more important that we equip them with the right information. Above all, this is the case for the elderly, for the sick, and that is why I would like to stress this. That we had an extremely broad debate, of course, is a fact. Here I have a list of all those who also participated in the written proceedings and also lists of those whom we have taken into account all or most of the comments. So this is really where the numbers go to 100. And the team that worked on it, of course, does not expect any special awards or special thanks. That is why we are at work to work for citizens and citizens. For this we are paid with taxpayers' money, and I just want to explain that we have taken the widest round into account to extend the public debate. I thank you for the initiative that this public debate has been prolonged. We were also in distress, and we are still, because now we have come practically to these meetings of the National Assembly, which is taking place at the end of June, and our wish was that this debate might be a session before that. And another observation, which has also appeared on the committee, is very important for a clear answer to it. Of course, the health insurance company actively cooperated, normally, because it is a health treasury, it has actively cooperated and we have also taken into account those comments that were realistic to be taken into account. In this regard, in chapters 10, 11 of the resolution, we have indeed put forward and amended the whole resolution on the basis of the proposals made by the insurance company. There was also a focus on quality and safety in health care, on health surveillance, which, in particular as regards spending money, we need to do better or better by the insurance company. When we write or hear that some do not have concessions or without concessions to obtain public funds, this has also happened that the insurance contracts were signed with individual companies that were not carriers of concessions. In short, these are some of the anomalies, and I believe that with one calm health policy of this anomaly we must eliminate and that we must think in particular about Slovenia as a whole. In fact, accessibility is critical that the village, the periphery deserves second attention and must earn it, and we are not able to develop Slovenia only in one or two points, especially when we need a doctor at night, when we need to get out of the hills, when roads are impenetrable and so on. That is why the legislation that we are planning, the legislation that we are planning, has now been adopted, especially here I am thinking about the Medical Service Act - the legislation is one that should also help make it more accessible throughout Slovenia. From the data you see, it is clear that we have almost half of all resources in one place, and it is clear that people and young people will not live on the periphery if they do not see the perspective in this area. That is why this part and this issue of accessibility, including those criteria mentioned that they cannot be the same everywhere, is pronounced. Because also by the number of people we see that the most lives in the centers and so is the profession, and in this case the medical profession is oriented towards life in the center. And I'm afraid and I just want Slovenia to remain fully populated and the condition for this is also good access to health services. In doing so, the involvement of civil society, once again, has been extremely constructive and if any new, two days before this document was discussed, of course, cannot be foreseen. And it's not really possible to take into account everything, even what's coming now and here. Also by the Medical Chamber, there was extremely good cooperation. Unfortunately, Professor Peggan, who was very active in this, is no longer among us today. So life and health are cruel to us. As a result, this provision of these guidelines is truly in good faith that we will have a way to improve. And by no means will I claim as a healthcare user or as a health minister that there is no opportunity for many improvements in our health care. Of course they are, especially in that we will run less from window to window, if I say so, and that when we are sick, we will have the nearest way to get to the doctor and that we will believe that we can come to that day when we need a doctor. Thank you for now. I don't want to disturb the debate, just a few clarifications I thought were crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u232	The text is by Ambassador Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister with a very numerous and distinguished team! Allow me first of all some introductory thoughts when I heard that we have not read the resolution, that we do not know how to discuss, when we heard the congratulations of the resolution and all of this, but I would remind you that it is not a matter of good will or of personal willingness or of the unwillingness of the ministerial team and the ministry, or of the resolution to prepare or not, but it is the responsibility of the Ministry to prepare it on the basis of Article 6 of the Health Insurance Act. And if the resolution expired in 2004, we rightly ask ourselves why there was no new document prepared by mid-2008 that seems to want to break the continuity with the previous document. Because now all of a sudden, this is no longer a national healthcare programme, but it is a national health plan. Whether that means some new quality, I will not discuss it, but my language views or problems with the things coming from the Ministry of Health are already quite permanent and I will return to it. In short, the resolution is not something left to good will and readiness, but is a commitment. It also states that, in order to prepare this document, analyses of the health status of the population have been carried out, the needs for comprehensive healthcare have been identified, staff and other capacities have been taken into account and measures envisaged to improve the situation, including ensuring a prudent division of labour. Well, I would like to read this document from this point of view and find in the resolution all that is written here. I was particularly pleased to see how the analyses were done when I went to look at the annexes to the resolutions on the national plan, and then I see that some of the analyses are very old. We are talking about the 2008-2013 plan, and some of the analyses go back to 2005 and we are lucky to have done so by 2005, some by 2003. What else should be said in these words is that it is so stressed that each one of us has to take care of his own health. Yes, I can agree to this thesis, but look, before the year 2000, when I became a Member of Parliament, I was given UMAR's data on some indicators of development in Slovenia, and I knew at that time that a man from North-East Slovenia had a significantly shorter life expectancy after statistics than one from the western part of Slovenia. As far as each individual can influence these facts, the second question is because things need to be taken in full and look at what a person can really do in this regard for individual health, where he is in a vicious circle that he cannot be cut off because he is the standard because he is an economic stand as he is. If two-thirds of the employees in this country get paid on average gross, then we cannot say that those who are less paid, who also have to work harder to survive, can take care of their health in the same way as those who are better paid. This also affects eating habits and many things that I will touch. But before I walk and read the resolution along with you, Mr Grill will see that we have read the resolution and that it is not precisely or correctly his conclusion that the opposition Members and Members are simply in denial out of wickedness and fragility, but that we read would touch this document. Well, I've reviewed the Health Ministry's website, and if I were to look at it this way, from a pianist's point of view, I have to say that this is a successful attempt. In five photos is the Minister of Health, on the one hand I have a nice, young, I don't know if she's a nurse or a doctor because I don't know about uniforms, because I'm a healthy person and I visit health institutes a few times. But here in the middle, of course, we have a very real beautiful doctor. If I look at it as a woman who's been singing her goodbye twice since I was young, then I say that this publication in my photographic image is sexist. The second thing I could say about this publication is that it is not possible to challenge vision, the mission, the key objectives, the values. It's all like a man could write, but then I am -- because there's a flowery lawn in the middle, there's an apple in the middle and in the end a young man or not, let's say, running in nature, because we're moving so; how we're going to strengthen and protect health -- looked at these things, what it all says. And look, in fact, I am outraged at this finding, because we explain our European attitude but we recognize and control the risks to health from the environment and we strengthen mental health and reduce the number of suicides and we reduce addiction, we control threats to health. And you see, here I did not find one health threat, which is huge in all data in Slovenia, but we do not have any statistics on it, nor from the Ministry of Health, not how big the scale of this threat to health really is, but it is a question of violence. The only thing that can affect a person’s questions of violence is the fact that any woman who is beaten by a man or otherwise is responsible for what is happening to her. I object to this document because there is nowhere in the document, not in this short publication, nor in the resolution - you can tell me that I have read this piecemeal, but I have found no written data on how the Ministry of Health, in fact, in the framework of the programme of implementation of the resolution on the implementation of the principle of equality, where this area is also specifically mentioned, that some things must also be dealt with from a gender perspective - I will not find this in this resolution. I will find one thing, and I will touch it later, where the principle of sex is dealt with. But this principle is nowhere to be taken into account because, for example, we have data on the extent of domestic violence only processed by the police. However, doctors, medical personnel, under official obligation, should be alerted to this when they detect violence, that is a fact. But nowhere in this document is it seen that we would be interested in this matter in the future if we were to say that something must also be done new, not just what we already have in writing. I cannot help, I have not been on the Health Committee, but the report says that representatives of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance have found that comments have not been taken into account. But I don't want to be argumentative because I know what it's like to have a dialogue with civil society when we're dealing with these things. Look, I've also seen in this resolution, especially in the report, if there's anything written or in terms of values or strengthening and protecting health about the things I've just talked about, that's what's related to domestic violence. Not even in ethical conduct or here in reducing injury and death in traffic, but let's say what could be done with the view of protecting health, protecting a positive relationship and healthy habits, because it is also related to a lot of violence, which is mentioned in other places. Here I regret that it is as it is written. Here, for example, in caring for the health of the elderly. However, I am looking at all these programs that are, and the tasks that are, the introduction of protection, for long-term care as branches of social insurance aimed at helping people to carry out their daily life activities - you see, I cannot see from this whether this is a concern or a matter left to choice and self-payment, or whether insurance for the long-term care of the sick, in particular the elderly, is part of the general insurance policy. I don't think you can know that I already mentioned a document today called the demographic picture of the population by 2060 in Europe. If you're looking at data on how the age of the population is going to go, then you can see that this is some very important area that I don't think can be left behind just to say, because a large majority of the elderly would like to be at home. Yeah, well, who's gonna take care of them when they're home? Again, this is a question that affects the quality of life of women, as a rule, which must take care of the elderly even when they are only a few years old, and perhaps some help is needed. Palliative care. I am not opposed to this, and I am happy that we are dealing with palliative care, I have no problems, but you know, I have concerns that the national document is written in the last paragraph that they will extend the supply of medicines in palliative care, you understand that nothing bothers me, but this last part bothers me very much, 'and take care of documenting and statistics on the quality of death at national level'. I'm sorry. I'm really not interested in statistics on the quality of dying. I wonder if they had quality palliative care by the time they died, and that would be more subtle to say, and this is my re-examination of language as it is written. You know, we have different views on how we're going to measure the quality of death by what criteria. The next thing I want to stop by is the issue of NGOs. I am following the work of NGOs with special sensitivity because it is part of the civil society and after the involvement of non-governmental organisations and after understanding the work of NGOs, the level of not only democracy, but also something else, including the civilisation of a society, is being measured. And I cannot agree with you writing down a very nice claim that NGOs are one of the pillars of civil society, but then you write here that the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to cooperate with NGOs is published there, on some websites. I've been talking to Minister Virant for some time now, and I'm asking how this business with NGOs the government is supposed to deal with, and believe me, almost free of charge. Communication with the public, if you are already using the plural form, then this communication should really be so specific as to satisfy the plural. But look, I will now, because my time will run out, just one more thing to warn me. Here, in measures to achieve the objectives, you have a reduction in health inequalities between the sexes, individual regions and individual social groups. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] If I look at what is written here, then it is difficult to understand from these measures all the things I wanted, namely, in reducing the difference between [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. The well-known Minister and representatives of the government. So this resolution is a response to challenges, modern challenges, as regards health, not only what is happening to us in Slovenia, but also in the world. And it is right that every government prepares an answer, and health is certainly one of the most important ones to respond to, including population ageing and so on, which is directly linked to it. I wouldn't particularly get involved in specific things about the diagnostics of individual diseases, accommodations and the like, because it would give me a false impression that I know something because I don't really know anything or really know very little like being a layman or as a patient. It is important that the team - ministerial and government - is aware of the key aggregates of what is happening to us and that it has in its possession to find out and then set appropriate targets. Goals and paths to them, what tasks, including criteria or indicators. As regards how you have defined a diagnosis of Slovenian health in this document, this aspect is good. Actually, the document itself is a positive and well-assessed document, but it still lacks certain things. You will understand this and decide for yourself what should be done in the light of this debate, not all of it is dry gold, but a lot of it needs to be heard. Private health funds and private health care. For a long time, it was supposed to be some sort of rescue plant. Private health has been shown to increase efficiency and, on the other hand, to make it more accessible and different. However, the public health network will play a far more important role in the future. It also created a negative and poor experience with insurance, health and insurance funds as balloons appear. This will require more reliance on these effects or on the public health network - a much greater emphasis, including the concessional activity, which is the so-called semi-private or full-service service. Care for the health of all of us - yes, it is important because they found in the analysis that with 90% of the public money we contribute and 80% of the public money we contribute, so called, to some 20% of the health state of the population and, on the other hand, with increased activity and awareness of individuals, we actually come to 80% of the health and use 20% of the resources. Therefore, my concern for health is important, and it also affects the individual’s responsibility through such brochures. The availability of services, this is necessary - accessibility, not only geographically, but that people are available about the price. Health services may be the fastest-growing service in all activities; and how - the answer to this needs to be found and is not easy. So, plan goals, ways to achieve these goals, tasks, change indicators, coverage, network, density, what's gonna happen in five years. I imagined that the resolution on the national programme would show, however: now the health situation is such or coverage with doctors or medical personnel or with something else, targeted, in five years' time, such is the case. And to choose, let's say, not everything that happens in health care, but key parameters to make this global movement happen. I miss that about it. With these documents - it is extensive, perhaps even extensive, as far as diagnosis of health in Slovenia is concerned. I can read it somewhere else or somewhere else in the annex. What matters is what the government prepares, from those indicators, and how it achieves its goal. That's essential. That is why all the resolutions, which are more extensive than 50 pages, I am reading poorly, I tell you, from the principle point of view, I am reading poorly and I do not really trust them. The resolution must be written on 50 pages [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that also has a good effect. Besides, I think that the right approach you've taken, even if it's before the elections, is not an election move, it's a move to make.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, Dr. Žiberna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I would like to highlight the three addresses recently exposed to the debate, violence, concern for the individual and the late resolution on the national health plan. I have the impression that some in the national plan like to look at what we haven't processed and see what we've been working on. With regard to violence, I would like to say, of course, that the issue is quite clear, but, above all, the scope of other documentation and other documents, and not so much the resolution on the national health plan, which means that we do not consider this a major sin, that we have not processed this document, although, as I have said, we do not deny the problem. However, this is a matter of other policies in the country that must deal with the problem of violence and is probably a health policy among the latter. As for taking care of an individual. I am pleased that the Member has just said a very important finding of modern professions, including medical ones, that neglecting the individual's concern about his own health can be a strategic error in any national health programme. We need to be aware that not only does 80% affect the health of an individual, even more, some theorists say even 90% of the health impact is on the individual and the social environment in which he lives, and that the impact of the health system is only about 10% of the overall impact. Of course, we do not want to do that either - we reject the obvious fact that we leave the individual with all the responsibility, far from it! However, it would be irresponsible for the Ministry to have this scientific knowledge that, in fact, the health system is only a minority system that affects the length of life, the quality of health and so on, and that a large majority of the impacts are actually outside the health system and that is just what we want to say because this is an extremely modern and up-to-date knowledge. There's a third thing I'd like to explain briefly. It is obvious that we have really taken up the resolution on the national plan late. It's really late, but it's so much better than if we didn't go after her. I would just like to say again that the resolution, which would cover federally the drying, national plan that expired in 2004, should in fact be drawn up and adopted by the government during the period 2000-2004 in order to have a federal document that would address the resolution between 2005 and the next. Of course, on your part and also on our part, we are united that this document is necessary and that is why this team has taken it very seriously before you and prepared it, of course, with delay, but we can look for sinners already in the period 2000-2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u239	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Madam Minister, government representatives. I'll start right with the quote we heard when we discussed the Mental Health Act. At that time, in this national assembly, we heard that mental health problems were spreading here. And also what I've heard now, how all things are moved to a period prior to the beginning of the rule of the current government, belongs exactly to this sphere. Exactly. When you can't really remember anything anymore, it's either a government from before or a government from before. We could even make excuses for some future, because it wouldn't matter. This time travel doesn't stop and it doesn't stop. However, in the resolution on the National Health Plan, you have focused on the Password Satisfying users and providers of health services, which one would be happy to accept if something or at least most of it were found in individual parts of this document. But it gets lost later. The same is true of this paper, which is supposed to be the essence or excelb of what is written on many more pages, but it is also here a new document, a document that would, for example, be good for some company that in some way establishes a new entrepreneurial culture in that company. That would, say, fit. So where there's nothing, and now we're gonna start over. That's the language, too. Now I'm talking about the semantic level. It's like things don't exist today. As if so far in Slovenia there was no health care, as if there was nothing and we came to do some "greenfield" project, as today is called modern. It's unnecessary. Therefore, it is also clear, in some ways, that the resolution itself is not based on the existing state and on some, for example, detected, identified advantages and weaknesses, but on the other hand. The resolution does not, perhaps because of this, contain any fundamental measures to improve the poor efficiency of the health system. You know, many years ago, at least one of the health workers decided to use the so-called white sentence. And it lasted, it wasn't one year or two. It took so long to become a "usus", a habit, or a habit, as one does. And, of course, that's what's left of it until today. This is a state that may concern us as well. The resolution does not contain financial implications, the public financial consequences of the guidelines outlined. There are no concrete proposals to optimise health care. Those guidelines, which are given, are very flat-rate, general, principled - but of course none of them are negative, I must certainly commend you here. In this will, ethical will, for example, is positive. On the other hand, as soon as we get to a specific or closer to a specific life, it turns out that there are many things that are not in the satisfaction of users and healthcare providers. The principle is broken. The responsibility, which is very stressed, even in this case and once prescribed only -- here, now I'm going to tell the users, it's usually patients. By the time you get to the doctor, you're no longer healthy. Ethical behavior, but it's not a new thing, I don't know why it's necessary to put things in the healthcare professions and so on. It is not, however, what is written about the protection of personal data, even though we know that this is one of the most problematic areas. As far as private and public. Surely every concessionaire or clean privateer must, however, be included in the public health network; not only with schedules, but also with other obligations. However, this is a matter of public service. As a result, much more control must be put in place than so far - over all those who care for health and for all who treat diseases. In fact, we can still believe this; if I read the last value of "the mutual trust and respect between users and health service providers and providers themselves", I would, of course, add the financiers here, too, have to trust them. But trust is not enough. That's what we sometimes call "self-restraint" in politics. It's a very beautiful beauty, but it's not enough. There must also be clear supervision and clear rules, or what happened in Italy may happen when 12 surgeons, owners and directors of a respected clinic were imprisoned at the respected Milanian clinic of Santa Rita, because they performed operations just to obtain money from the public treasury. Some people died in this, but they were a respected clinic. The young girl was cut off by her breasts to perform surgery to earn money. Greed was on that side! Therefore, there is little self - restraint, so there is little ethical conduct, so there is little responsibility, and more is needed. And that these things are going this way, today you were told here by the mayors who are dealing with it. There were no doctors until there was a chance of concession. Earnings! And if we just trust and believe, then it's good enough to trust in our health and believe that nature will take care of us. Then we don't need doctors. There's one more thing I have here. On the last page, you are talking about how you dealt with civil initiatives, the public and so on. But, of course, no one else is written down here except for the Czech associations. Then there is a big question whether the first part of the "satisfactory users" is valid, perhaps the providers of health services, but if I look again at these, just the characteristics, housing associations that control the so-called upper layer of health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and Members of Parliament. The values are indeed those of which I believe it is very important for us to unify and, given that ethics may be far too small, we have involved them as one of the important values that must be repeatedly and repeatedly raised. And it certainly doesn't hurt - I agree, too, that trust as little as it is. That's why we also have a combination of values, that without control, that's what the world's philosophers have written about, obviously not! That's why we've very well defined, recorded the state of control, which is definitely too weak, definitely. It is too weak how resources are used, how what is done is done, and, of course, what is too weak is professional control. Therefore, we have also set quite specific goals, and it may not be in vain to point out that when a derogation is observed that it is nice, if they also receive inspections of this information, which otherwise exercise control over the programmes outlined, but, but it is not too much and I think that we are the ones who, as a society, have to warn about it everywhere. We were prepared for criticism of this short brochure because we have experience with patients’ rights. Everything we do to make things more transparent and more friendly, not everyone goes in 100 pages or 60 pages of reading, but we have made a very brief summary. That's why. And given that there were a lot of negative opinions on patients' rights at the time, we got extremely good responses from people who actually have this as a manual, because people are not dealing with individual details, but there are these guidelines. And that's why we did it again this time, because it's also a national plan, we're sure it's so important that it deserves it. When we're talking about population ageing, let me answer a few questions. Population ageing is certainly not expected to have a major impact in the next five years, according to scientific evidence. In the next 20, 30 years, but for 60 years, we have not considered today, given that we did not have guidelines for a year, let alone for five years! So we've limited ourselves to this reality today and here. As for the mental health mentioned above, let me repeat this sentence, that if we were more tolerant of each other, any more beds would be empty in a psychiatric clinic, not too few. I am also sure that, as a society, we have a common opportunity to be a little more tolerant. And if I can tie it to those health deficiencies that I'm sure are in construction as well. Obviously, I'm going to a pediatric clinic, I don't know, take pictures, or something, of course, I don't take too lightly, because I know how things work, how to build difficult things. And that, as a society, we allow a building to be built for 10 years, called a pediatric hospital, and that I should still feel guilty about going there and because there has been a big shift in the last three, four months in doing so, I will also put it under that point of tolerance, to be tolerant of each other, and to believe that here and there really want things to be done better, to do as citizens and citizens deserve and deserve. And as for the difference in health between regions. There are very worrying differences within small Slovenia, but only within Europe, where there was a strong emphasis during the Presidency on reducing differences between countries. And even in the conclusions of the EU or the Council of the EU, it has also come to a conclusion on the importance of reducing differences, that we will live as long as we live, no matter where we are born, that the life span will increase, and that preventive measures in the field of cancer can save a lot of lives or prolong a lot of life. And it's right in here. The Pomur region or Pomurje have taken an extremely large step to reduce the differences in the programme We live healthy where they have so-called this programme in all policies, in agriculture, in the environment, in education. And the whole web of policies has somehow led to the fact that the results in this area will certainly be visible, but we want this case of good practice to spread widely across Slovenia. Zasavje is also one where conditions are obviously much worse and life is shorter and so on. That is why this must be our common challenge for the future. And knowing that there is much to be done also on personal responsibility and on knowledge in general, on awareness. Clearly, it's not the only one. And we do not run away from the fact that the importance of health care, the organisation of health care and the quality that needs to be measured - we do not run away from this only so that we can build the system truly together, once with our own awareness and, secondly, with the necessary improvements within health institutions, both at primary and secondary levels. I believe we all want to wait briefly, both in the waiting line and in the waiting age. That is why we have put in place concrete measures and we are already implementing certain measures. If not, in the next 10 days, a list of waiting periods for all of Slovenia will appear in the Health List, comparisons between individual hospitals, where patients will be able to decide where the waiting period is 15 days or one year, or whether it will be possible to decide and go where the waiting period is almost nothing. It's almost nothing in fact, but it's real for 15 days. This will be a review. The sources are from the hospitals. That we have institutions for this, from the Institute for Health Protection to the health insurance company, which will then have to do more in this area. This also requires a new law on records. And perhaps you have overlooked - we have foreseen this law, here it needs to be adopted, it needs to be prepared and accepted, because it is clear that the protection of data, especially sensitive data such as health, is extremely important. The health care system is built with larger grips and multiple grips. And I also take that, despite all the compliments, that we behave here a little bit as if we were thinking at the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Greetings also to the representatives of the Ministry and the Minister. I must say, with a respectable team. What about this resolution? The resolution can be a program and a list of wishes, and with health care, it is no doubt that someone who does not need this system can easily convince us that we have one better health system far around, and that people, when they come into this mill, have a wide variety of experiences, from extremely positive systems to bad ones. The fact is, there's something else in this system. I personally think that because I am also the mayor of one of the central Slovenian municipalities, it must be the foundation of this health system, that good and quality health homes must be. And there's nothing wrong with concessionaires, I'm not against them, we should just make arrangements for these concessionaires to stay within the healthcare system. I can see from my own experience that those who are left there are trying, getting patients, coming even half an hour early, staying longer if necessary, picking up phones even when they are not at work, and could also list a bunch of positive steps towards bringing patients closer. Those, for example, who have left this system do not, for example, adhere to the basic contract with the healthcare home which was bound by the concession. Let's say the dentist got a concession, went out of the health center, signed that he would pay for a system of health care technology and hire services there, but that's not happening today. But here, I'm sorry, it's simply a matter of making order and making things worse. Even such stories as we listen to the mayors say that there is no one who should be a certain number of hours at work for such or other reasons. That's not right either. We're municipalities somewhere basically the founder of health homes. It's all right here. Everything's fine as long as we pay. But when we are interested in what the director of the healthcare home has to pay, what he does, what will be his investments, to sit together and say where to invest, and where often the story ends and we are as if we don't have to. The problem is also drugstore activity. Currently, Slovenian pharmacies make perfect profits, and there are guests in health homes owned by municipalities who do not pay any rent for this. And they're in absolutely no hurry to give the profits they have back for rent, for space. They wouldn't waste it on me for events. We'd put her back in a health home, in the things that are needed. And, of course, there is one emphasis on personnel. Yesterday I was with a gentleman who said that he was advising in Bosnia and that they were conducting language courses for doctors who would like to work in Slovenia, courses from the Slovenian language. Of course, if we don't have doctors to import them too. But I think that in young people, the medical profession is valued, respected and desirable, but that some of these high standards and censorships lose their will, desire and energy, and nowhere does it say that someone who is a super good student can be a great doctor. I think that if these criteria were to study for doctors only super, super, super, super-duper people, they'd be a little smoother and get a wider set of people. Because in addition to study quality, a doctor needs a number of other qualities. It's a few humble opinions from practice. Then let's say some really nice thoughts here, but this is a resolution and a strategy, let's say we continue with comprehensive education and oral health promotion, we will increase accessibility to dental services. Yeah, well, listen, you can't really believe this. In the whole world, when money runs out of money in these public systems, dentistry is directed more or less into the self-payment sphere. If they're not the first front teeth, then it's already a super standard and a bonus. We cannot say this, however, but we can honestly believe that we will actually increase accessibility. Simple: If we have less money, whether we put dental medicine or cancer or biological drugs on the balance, we understand, of course, who and what we will give priority to. We'll give priority to life, not beauty. And these things just need to be told and told. In this dental system, you have people who aren't willing to pay for dental floss. They are not willing to pay, but everyone knows that this is the basis for all processes and diseases that occur in the oral cavity. And people simply need to be aware that prevention needs to be invested and that it is worth investing in, because, of course, given that we today have accepted the Dragan Supplement and continue to do so, forgive me, for porcelain or for implants, very many people in this country will not have the money. Maybe 20%. And these are moments of truth that we need to invest in prevention, that we also need to invest in healthy food. I missed it in this resolution, maybe even missed it. It seems to me that the key to health in addition to healthy lifestyles is also healthy food. And in this country, we have the opportunity to increase the quantity and obtain healthy food. And even though it is an interdisciplinary issue concerning agriculture and others, it is also right that the Ministry of Health participates in such debates. For example, if we have the Plant Safety Act, there must also be a strong voice from the Minister or Minister of Health. When I go through the evening - two thirds of the samples in Prekmurje, as far as quality drinking water is concerned, are not appropriate. This too needs to be given more emphasis and more attention. And of course those reserves that our cashier, health insurance company pays really what and only what was actually done. If a colleague of mine is a tutor, my friend says that on the previous day she had a whole class of children at the dentist and that he did fluorine and everything that comes along, in a class that has 25 children, that they were all "fertik" in two hours, that of course they didn't stick on and change gloves, but I'm sure - you know how many people are treated in two hours by standard - that 25 were not able to. The key point is that the health insurance company pays for what was done. That's what you're saying. You need to tighten up the controls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We have invited the mayors to a broad debate on the resolution. Unfortunately, this meeting was attended by a little less mayors than we expected. Indeed, we have discussed solutions in a very open way. Concessions, health homes - these were very common questions. Perhaps you, as mayor, have received this continuation of the recommendations we made about six months ago, and we have now completed these recommendations to address such anomalies, some of which you mention. However, the congregation as its founder is also the one who is standing over the world of the institution and, in fact, has all the power to do so. And it's the right thing to do. Also affect these salaries, which are repeatedly mentioned. Today, too, there has been talk about how to actually lead a health institution or treat it. Here there are major anomalies in health homes, that actually certain directors have two salaries, from on-calling, this and that, and a normal pay from directing. This is certainly a subject that needs to be brought into one frame and is an opportunity to get it out. That's another thing. I very much agree with you that concessionaires are in health homes because there are all the resources. And the patient should not even know if he came to the concessionaire or if he came to a doctor who was employed in a health care facility. The quality of the service must be the same. And this trend, for example, including disputes between concessionaires and between employees in public health homes, is right to calm down and to be calmed in many ways. Many cooperate very well, for much also depends on people themselves in view of the fact that many things were not prescribed. We, through certain legislation, also through the Medical Service Act, have already regulated a number of areas for concessions, but everything else will have to come into the new Health Act. However, we are aware of all these questions, including those raised by you. And there's something else about the staff, about the doctors. We have established this system in the long term, where it is also supposed to be through a new college, through more and more health schools that Slovenia really came. Here is not only knowledge, but understanding the language is extremely important when they are being treated with illness. This does not mean that some of them do not still come from other countries, but we give priority to home education, so there are also clear numbers written here in five years from now, and it is also a clear concern for the well-being of patients or of all of us, users. In dental care, however, you also have quite accurate measures in section 7.2.2.10. Of course, if you looked at it the way you mentioned it might sound like there's nothing you can do. It can also be improved in the field of dental care, we clearly start again with prevention, and then with the very approach to treatment, to integrated treatment, including the planning of the entire treatment of teeth, not only one tooth, but then again one year nothing. This is one different approach, which is quite well defined, you will see. And there is definitely a few more resources for dental care as of this year. As I said, we are aware that there are also open questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The resolution on the national health plan is intended to provide solutions or answers to how and how to provide all Slovenes and Slovenes with a publicly accessible, modern and quality public health system, which will also be based on mutual solidarity in the future. This is a document that foresees or plans the development of health care in the coming five-year period. As my colleague and colleague have found, we may be preparing it too late, but despite the fact that we are always referring to the previous government, such a document should probably have been prepared by the current current minister before the expiry of that period in 2004. For the good planning of the health system, such a document, which contains the objectives and measures of how we will achieve these objectives, is certainly essential. That the basis for the resolution under consideration today, the 2005 analysis, probably also shows that there were no analyses at the time that would have been the basis for the resolution that would have continued since 2005 when the previous plan ended. The Ministry has drawn up a resolution after the completion of the prepared working material, and has conducted many discussions and discussions with various chambers, civil associations, representatives of trade unions, who have made their comments. I was on the Health Committee, and in the end, we all found that only certain things were taken into account, but there was another representative of the insurance company at the negotiations and talks with the Ministry, and he was then on the Health Committee. And most of the time, we obviously agree that prevention is better than curative treatment. The Ministry of Health is certainly the first to be called, which must also have awareness of people in its plans. Surely, first of all, each individual is responsible for his or her health. We probably all agree that money has not been thrown away when we have preventive actions in primary school, when little children in kindergarten are already engaged in the proper cleaning of teeth and so on. A colleague from Zares mentioned the last time how many people have very bad teeth, but those who are elderly today did not learn to brush their teeth properly in primary school and so on. Therefore, it is likely that all these preventive actions are of great importance that we all be healthier together in the long term. We all know that the population is ageing, that more people need health care, and it is therefore important that the resolution provides that we will pool more resources for health care together. Today, as a society, we set aside 2 billion euros for health care, by 2013 or five years later, to raise 3 billion, which means a billion more for all of these programmes that we are talking about and we are all aware that they need to be funded. In addition to all the other measures that have already taken place, we expect a law on long-term care. More is being done to build the homes of the elderly, and we are trying to help this group of older people. Some of you mentioned the book that we don't need it or that it's money laundering again. I was on one show last week, where everyone stressed that people need to be informed, informed and informed, and I think it's right that we do. I think it is important that we create good health conditions, that we create good conditions for employees and also for patients, that they be dealt with properly and quickly, so I will support the resolution as it is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor of all the panellists. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u249	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Once again, hello to everyone. First of all, I'd like to draw your attention to one fact. Given that Dr. Bručan, a former minister here today, has vehemently claimed that this government has fallen into a void, the fact is definitely the following. During the former government, it was a national health care programme. During that period this book was created Health Reform. And if anyone wanted to read it, not just criticize it, of course, it could serve as a very good basis for what he would like to go into anything in this book. There was also a fundamental difference between the former government and this government. A request or a proposal for a public presentation of opinions was made here by the opposition at the time and was made. Interesting. This government, this coalition doesn't want to hear the profession. She did not want a public presentation of the opinions to be carried out. So much for how the former Minister acted and how Minister Bručan acted and how the practice continued. I'd just like to give it a free pass, because it would be unfair for me to make my own judgment on the document. Take a look at this document and see the document on which we are talking today. I think everyone could have created the judgment on their own. In view of the fact that it has already been said today that the civil and professional public was involved and it has now been simplified here, only because someone else has come to the board, has told a completely different story on behalf of the insurance company than it has actually been. As far as I know, as Chairman of the Committee, 42 comments were made to the Committee on the long-term material adopted by the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that such an underestimating relationship just can't be up to the Department of Health Insurance that just because someone else came to the meeting, he was talking some sort of thing. It is, however, the fact that these questions do not have answers in this resolution. Allow me to draw attention to the extent to which this resolution speaks and is addressed by the strategic development plan of the Health Insurance Institute. I'll do it again. The Health Insurance Office says that financial sustainability will be possible if there is no additional employment and there is no additional pressure for additional programmes. This has also been presented in the context of the presentation of this programme in our Group of Members. This resolution speaks the other way around. Now, let's take a look at this brochure that came in here today. I agree. People need to be informed. But they need to be properly informed. And I would only read two things here that are very important to me. First of all, the Minister's address, which is immediately stated in the second paragraph: Most European countries face additional pressures in public health due to higher prices of medicines, new biological medicines, introduction of new technologies, diagnostics and treatments. Why is it not also defined here in the matter of Slovenia? Why is it not stated here whether Slovenia is in most of the countries facing these pressures or between those countries that do not face these pressures? Why is this so important? When we talk about how much resources we spend on health care, we see from the tables that I previously presented in the presentation of the parliamentary group that the forecast of total expenditure on health for the period 2008-2013 shows that public expenditure is decreasing. So in terms of the percentage of GDP, the percentage is dropping. Normally, it's nominally rising, but the share of GDP is falling. And there's something interesting. Where do you compensate if you want to get to 8.5% of GDP in the health field? Of course you compensate for item 2, these are private expenses. And now let's look at the interestingness of reading this booklet when we're talking about correct information. When we talk about the financial system of healthcare, it says, so these columns, how private and public resources are going to grow, but it's interesting. Then it writes: The rights of citizens and citizens from basic health insurance will in any case be maintained at least at the current level and the rights of the socially disadvantaged will be further increased and so on. But it's interesting, I went to watch the text of the resolution again. Since this phrase does not so write and is interesting when you read the chapter Adaptation of the compulsory health insurance system, it writes something else. However, logically, according to the text in the resolution, it reads: "The rights covered by compulsory health insurance will have to be adapted dynamically." Why doesn't it say the same text, keep it and keep it up? And point 3 says: System upgrades [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] on the basis of the needs of the population in accordance with the available funding. And when you give it together, the Department of Health Insurance tells you that the extension of rights will not be possible, with the increase in wages, with the additional employment that this resolution defines, with an estimate that 4.5 times the cost for older people over 65 years of age will increase six times the cost if they are over 80 years of age and that the number of acute diseases is expected to increase two to three percent per year. And if you put this together now, the proportion of public funds is falling, the liabilities are going to be higher, the rights are going to be the same. How else can we put this together than will we have to pay more from our own pockets? If you can count, it would, of course, be very good to base it on the numbers of this matter, because otherwise it is impossible. And here remain open questions through this resolution. For the critic of this resolution, compared to this book, you will be able to find clearly written reasons in this book, i.e. analysis of the situation and the reasons for the change, amendments with the institutions, the financial implications, the timetable and the assessed effects. All of this is missing in this document that we accept here today. Yes, Mr Remškar, we will also hear, but these are the things that are fixed-term. On what data can we actually assess certain dynamics of change here? There is no indication of how and which laws we will change and during which period. And if you look at the carriers, more or less someone there with "copy-paste" played and a little out and a little in, in which of those areas in certain activities. And when you read this resolution so consistently, the question is: Is this a public interest? And if you add to this the parts where you say, "that public capacity will not be able to increase satisfactorily in the network", that is, in the text, of course, the private sector will need to be strengthened. And I ask myself: Which parts will we not be able to satisfactorily increase, who gives whom the authority to speak in this way, or will this go to the benefit of providing health care to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? And these are the dilemmas we have here. With respect for the work you've done, but not today to say that after four years there was no power after 2004, there was no foundation. I argue that it was that you did not wish to present your views to the public in the confrontation and that in this way it remains too open to believe in the correctness of the document submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Thus, the list of all reported discussers is exhausted. The text is also given by the proposer. On behalf of the proposer, Mr State Secretary, Dr Žiberna. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I had no intention of addressing the subject of health reform from 2000 to 2004, but you brought it up on your own. It was a document of a group that was probably working honestly, for a good purpose, but, as long as memory does not deceive me, the same government put the same document in a drawer and did not enforce it during the period that this document was adopted. So much for a wake-up call. The fact that I said in my performance that we should go to the period 2002-2004 because of the resolution on the national plan is only because, in fact, both theoretically and practically, if we wanted to have it right away, we should work on it a year earlier. And that's all this is about. About the financial sustainability of the healthcare system over the coming years. Indeed, if we look absolutely, at decimals, this percentage of contributions is slightly reduced due to the model that has been implemented in Slovenia, but this is such a negligible reduction that you can of course have an argument that the absolute point of view is lower, but in practice and in fact the expected new cash resources will increase from 2 billion to 3 billion euros from 2008 to 2013. And these numbers are checked by several financial parties or experts, which means that the money will be significantly higher and even 50% higher than the money today, which in itself means that there will be a large increase in the inflows to the health treasury. And this is a very important reason why the starting points and objectives of this health resolution are actually objectively set. However, there is something else that some of you have indicated that may have an important impact on the effectiveness of the health system. These are tools for the effectiveness of the organisation. You yourself have said that the organization that was enacted from 1991 to today is in some ways ineffective. And it is these tools that the change of organisation in operators will make an important contribution to the future financial health resources that, together with the combination of growth and the combination of better organisations, will be able to implement all the real programmes that we have set up here. And a few more highlights on network issues. The health network at the primary level is determined by our legislation and also in most European countries of the municipality. The municipality is the one and on its behalf the mayor who determines whether the doctors he has on the network and the others will have in the organisation of a healthcare home or, in terms of greater efficiency for his citizens and citizens, determine this through appropriate decisions to be carried out in the form of concessions. Both are part of the public health service. And once again, it is only two different types of operators, but it is both in the public health system. In fact, from a legal and theoretical point of view, the user should not in fact ask whether he writes a healthcare home or a concessionaire this and that. Indeed, the resolution states that the healthcare home will play a central and coordinating role and that those who will also coordinate professionally and organisationally at the primary level of this matter. However, if someone thinks that we need to keep the healthcare home as it has been in effect in recent decades, it is a slight mistake, because life goes on, organizational forms change and it is normal for the healthcare home to change, but we are very interested that the potential concessionaire also carries out his activities within the healthcare home as such in terms of user-friendlyness. From the point of view of the secondary network of contractors, I would like to say that the resolution ensures that nothing will be lifted, that we modernise and increase the efficiency of secondary operators at the secondary level. Thus, there is no fear of quitting the hospital in the Rippers, no other reason for doing anything in this or in any other case. It is important to understand, however, that operators will also have to make some improvements to organisations, and this is reflected in the resolution on the secondary level adopted as such. I would also like the debates in Parliament and also the debates on the basis of the resolution in Slovenia's perception, acceptance and perception of public and private health care, to understand that the public is both an operator and a public health institution, either a hospital or a health institution, as well as a concessionary, both at the primary and secondary levels. I would be pleased if, at the end of this mandate, every Slovenian and Slovenian country would make it clear that it is always an operator working for public money and under public control that only the form is slightly different. But I would not open up here a debate on "pro et contra" where it is more efficient, where it is more cost-effective, which is more friendly for others. In the European environment where we are, it is indeed true that the best countries are those in the form of health service providers that are generally as public as concessionaires who are generally minority by number and scope of operators. And we also have a regulation set for this goal in Slovenia, which is not from today. This has been recorded in Slovenian laws since the early 1990s. In this area, however, there is still a great lack of knowledge in regulating primary health care, for communication with some congregations shows that there is actually no way to regulate it. The Ministry and also these resolutions are designed to help them. However, this does not change their legislative responsibility to regulate primary health care as such. The insurance business is very short notice. See, even the compulsory part of health insurance and the supplementary part, this has not been fulfilled in this mandate, even in the 1990s, and this has European patterns. Therefore, this system, which is highly criticized on some sides, has its comparisons and its history. However, it is absolutely true that additional and parallel health insurance will also be possible and are long overdue. Here economists can very clearly calculate that additional resources to the health system in terms of additional payments of the wealthier layer in the form of additional and parallel health insurance essentially increase the resources in compulsory health insurance available to all others. Quite the opposite of what is being shown to have a negative impact on the benefits of insured persons who do not have such a high economic status. This effect is European comparable, and benefits can be calculated in this area. So much for an explanation of some statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u252	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the debate. Would you like another word? [[...]] Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I hope we're not going to repeat ourselves with the Secretary of State, but just a few details. Let me point out that rights are being maintained. Some, especially for the social weak, are being upgraded. This is also the case in the Health Care and Health Insurance Act, which provides for the payment of insurance or the payment of services resulting from additional insurance. This law was under consideration today. We also expect the opinion of the Economic and Social Council and believe that it will go to life. I am obliged to know about the analyses, because I too have been very disturbed by the age of these analyses, as the Member of Parliament has mentioned, by some analyses. But where European comparability is impossible, there is obviously such a time delay, so I was taught by those who prepared it, say Mr Titus Albrecht was one of them, that it is impossible to get more up-to-date numbers that are somehow in the context of Europeans too. Where have we all taken into account the comments of the 50th Associations? Let me mention above all that they have been taken into account in the health care of the disabled. Very important. In occupational diseases, in the public network, in the health of the elderly. In the health of the elderly we place one thesis, which you may have also seen from telemedicine, and of course the development of those services that would allow for longer stays of the elderly in your own home and a higher quality of stay, especially as regards the emotional attachment to a home that we have created for ourselves all our lives. Then there is a supplement in the area of hospital waste. Here you can see the link between health policies in the environment and agriculture. Above all, antibiotics that are put into the environment, especially antibiotics that feed the livestock, those that we eat too much, all of this is what makes it easier to be resistant to infectious diseases and that bacteria will become more resistant to antibiotics. And this is one of the major threats to the future. Above all, we have dealt with and complemented, in line with those comments of the 1950s, by eliminating differences in health within Slovenia. Since the law on medicine has been mentioned and this strict splinter is in Slovenia, we agree that there are many different ways to intertwine classical medicine with medicine, but we have set a goal for us to start by setting transparency here, that this is the most important and the professions themselves will probably seek common paths through the future. They're looking for them today. It's just impossible to make something out of anything that's so universal. Since the lack is at some point, particularly in chronic, non-communicable diseases, one would think that there is a lack of concrete action in the resolution. Special national plans are already being prepared for the area of cancer, diabetes. These are such difficult areas that they need to be defined in the resolution in some way and strategically, and then, above all, cancer also raises the issue: where, with what quality, cancer patients can be treated. We want to contribute to quality. And also on how to tackle this own responsibility towards a healthy way of life, there are extremely concrete action programmes up to some level in Chapters 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4. Here are screening programmes and managing threats to infectious diseases and health in all policies. However, in Chapter 14, the measures to achieve the objectives are also very precise, I think 254 of them. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We turn to the debate on the sub-chapter and the amendment tabled, namely the amendment tabled in sub-chapter 11.5. The Lip Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing not, which is why I'm concluding this debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour at 19.55. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed in half an hour. Like I said at 7:55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u255	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers - following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers is not suitable for further consideration. Anybody want a word? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Miran Potč, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Some 1,000 widows after the already dead soldiers of the Yugoslav People's Army expect you to give them the right to a partial widow's pension. This budget may cost some 10,000 euros, and it will guarantee the same rights to an exceptional group that has not yet been allocated. In order for this group to have the right, clear statements were made by most political parties in Parliament, all except Democrats and New Slovenia. And they all understand that the right to obtain a partially widowed pension is a possibility provided by our legislation, an option that would be fair to this group and that would not constitute any serious material obligations that would render it impossible to fulfil it. I therefore expect and propose that we realise this expectation of these widows in such a way that we vote against the proposal for a decision of the home working body and thus give the possibility that the procedure for the adoption of this law will continue and be adopted by the end of this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u257	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members will vote against such a proposal because we believe that the Committee's decision is unfair. We are for this solution to be realized and to eliminate the discriminatory form of law that excludes our citizens and puts them in an unequal position. As far as pension and disability benefits are concerned, our pensioners are insured in this system, which lays down the right to work on a widow's pension by 2005. When we introduced the right to those who had a higher pension than the average, this thing fell apart from our wishes in 2005 and it is right to return and this injustice is corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u260	Thank you very much. 8. 4. 2008 Mrs Sonja, Danica, Ivanka, Antonia, Danica, Minka, Stana, Jana, Mira, Hedvik, 13 women sent a letter to Parliament to the parliamentary groups. They're asking me to correct the mistake that was made in 2005. It is said that under the law equal status is also recognised for those widows who were married to men who were insured under one law under military law who were military insured. For these women, this government has not heard and apparently has not heard of it today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the law we are voting on today, we have the opportunity to eliminate the discriminatory distinction between widows and widowers according to the type of insurance provided by their late partner. Just because these women were married after the government's misinterpretation, there was no excuse for not getting a 15% pension today, 15% of 70%. It is only and a social adjustment to some degree of censorship, because these women today have such a very low pension that they should be entitled to this social adjustment. All other widows are entitled to it. Widows of those men who were insured under the law on pension and disability insurance. It's like I said, once again, to eliminate the discriminatory notion of women or widows in our country. Once again, 13 women are asking the National Assembly to come to their aid. In the Lip Group we will not support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which is negative, because we support the elimination of this discrimination, we support the solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u262	Dear President! Appreciation of my colleague and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on pension rights of former military insurers and therefore we will vote against the decision of the parent labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. This is a relatively simple decision. We stick to what the Slovenians wrote in the constitution. We don't want any segregation, we don't want discrimination, we don't want stigmatization, we don't want any less collective punishment against people who aren't really guilty of anything. If someone has fallen so low at this time that he has to avenge himself for not knowing what about widows, he has that right, too, we will say. But that's a long way from humanity. Far from anything we want to treat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted in favour, 34 votes against 32. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on a single pension allowance by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. I will once again appeal to you, your fellow Members and colleagues, to support the proposed amendment. This amendment also confers the right to a one-stop-shop pension allowance on persons who receive part or half of their pension under the Disability and Pension Insurance Act. These are also persons who are partially disabled due to a recognised degree or category of disability. These are persons who are unable to work because of their illness, unable to be actively involved in the labour market or in the labour market. For such persons, it makes sense to give people, because of high inflation, the possibility of at least some improvement in their social situation makes sense to include people who receive compensation from disability insurance, from the common minority from which pensions go, disability pensions. These are the people who have the right to a pension pension, a disability pension under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. These are persons, respected colleagues and colleagues, and let this guide you, who receive only EUR 217, 220 per month of disability benefits. These are persons who should be primarily affected by poverty and are included among the beneficiaries because of social pressures in order to receive a unique drug supplement. Therefore, once again, on behalf of the proposaler, the Lip Group, I ask you to listen not to our call for help, but to call for the assistance of these people, citizens and citizens of our country who are sick, have a disability category, are unable to work and receive only compensation from disability insurance. I've been fighting 200 euros, and I believe it's not enough to survive a month. Even less, this is enough for a successful country that can provide social security for individuals with these amounts. I'm asking you to support the amendment. We will support the amendment in the Lip Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u265	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 39. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the second amendment to Article 2 of the Zares Group. In doing so, I should say that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 3(3) and Article 4. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 3(3) and Article 4 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 39. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Thus, the amendments to Article 3(3) and the amendment to Article 4 are irrelevant. We are moving on to the first amendment to Article 3 of the LDS Group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment referred to in point 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 39. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda - to consider the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is not adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 18. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda - discusses the draft resolution on the national health plan 2008-2013 satisfied users and health service providers. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the Lipa Group to sub-chapter 1.5. We're voting on the amendment. There are 67 Members and Members present, 23 votes against, no 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This is how we ended up voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 70 votes in favour, 43 against 22. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'd warn you, we're still working. We're done with this agenda item, but I didn't say we'd finished the meeting. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the energy law by emergency procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. Only amendments from SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 17 have been tabled. Would anyone like to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to decision-making. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted in favour, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u266	Your Honor! With the amendment adopted, the law is not harmonised. The government will prepare a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-26-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Since the Government has warned, or a representative of the Government, that the amendment has been adopted, that the bill is inconsistent, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item tomorrow, 17 June 2008, after the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item, at the same time the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow at nine o'clock. Good night.
