ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mr Roberto Battelli, Geza Juban, Ljubo Germič, Aurelio Juri, Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Mr Rudolf Moge, Dr Marko Pavliha from 4 p.m. on, Mrs Breda Pecan also from 4 p.m. on, Milan Petek and Bojan Starman. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Shircel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, which the Government is proposing by emergency procedure. This law represents one of the measures that will mitigate the effects of rising prices of living needs in the past year, which have hit people with the lowest incomes the most. In order to ensure that their incomes are kept at about the same level, the Government proposes to increase the general benefit of €2,000 for those liable to total income of €6,800 per year, which is approximately the income of the minimum annual salary, which means that we are passing this tax relief from those countries which provide general relief at the level of the minimum wage. There is an increase of EUR 6,801 to EUR 9,000 in the general benefit of EUR 1,000. In this way, these pledges will have a total relief of somewhat less than €5,000 for those with income of up to €6,800 and slightly less than €4,000 for those with incomes of up to €9,000. For other taxpayers, the general tax relief will remain the same, amounting to 2,959,60 euros, meaning, in other words, that the Government has adopted a selective approach here, a selective approach mainly to focus on those taxpayers most affected by the increase in the price of living needs, and that such a proposal constitutes a fiscally sustainable proposal on the other hand, the Government will ultimately reduce its expenditure for these amounts. The financial impact of this tax is EUR 38 million and the government will reduce expenditure for this purpose. However, with the Income and Tax Law, we cannot actually solve all the problems, especially those of the taxpayers who have children and who already benefit from tax benefits for children, so this law is only part of the measures and is, of course, linked to the law that increases child support and will also be dealt with by the National Assembly at this meeting. This law actually increases the net salary of persons who receive EUR 6,800 by EUR 320, which is approximately 82% of the current minimum wage. However, for taxpayers who receive 9,000 euros, this annual amount of income or net salary increases by 160 euros per year. How many taxpayers will we engage in this law? Some 205,000 taxpayers, of which around 175 000 taxpayers are paid, and the other taxpayers receive a pension if they have additional incomes besides pensions, as well as, of course, other incomes, cadastral income and, last but not least, there are around 11,000 taxpayers who generate incomes as independent entrepreneurs. By means of the Income Act, the Government proposes two other major amendments, namely a change in the area of relief, namely the extension of the exemption of income from benefits for the provision of temporary or temporary care or assistance to persons with disabilities, including for cases where representative and other disability organisations paying these benefits operate at local level. A change is also proposed in the area of capital profit taxation, in particular so that capital gains that are not actually paid will not be taxed, and a solution proposed by the European Commission is proposed when it has determined the acceptability of the Income Act. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I propose that the National Assembly adopt a complementary proposal for legislation, as adopted by the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr. Shirtzl. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President William Trofenik to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u4	Nice greeting to all present in the hall! At its 36th meeting, on 17 January 2008, the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Income submitted by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by means of a proposal to examine and adopt the law submitted under the urgent procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The Legislative and Legal Service has commented on the provisions of Articles 2, 4, 5 and 8, and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 2 and 4 are taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. The proposed law was accompanied by amendments from the parliamentary group: the Slovenian Democratic Party, Nova Slovenija, the Slovenian People's Party, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners and the Group of Social Democrats. In the initial supplementary explanation of the law, the representative of the proposed law presented in detail the purposes and objectives of the proposed law and the proposed solutions. In doing so, he stressed that, in the first place, the Government's action was to prevent or reduce the negative effects of increasing the price of living needs to the living level of the weakest taxpayers. In addition, the proposed law also eliminates the incompatibilities of the provisions of the current law with the law of the European Community and the Agreement on the European Economic Area and eliminates the inappropriate treatment of certain revenue. The representative further stressed that the proposed law is only one of the measures proposed by the Government, which introduce additional tax reliefs for certain taxpayers, namely: an additional tax relief of EUR 2,000 for those liable for annual income of up to EUR 6800 gross and a thousand euro for those liable for annual gross income of EUR 6801 to 9,000. The representative of the applicant also stressed that the Government is aware that the proposed measure does not fully and satisfactorily address all negative effects, in particular those in which the common tax relief exceeds the threshold to which the tax reliefs are effective. Finally, the representative of the applicant justified the need for an urgent procedure with the desire to take effect on the first payment of wages. In its opening presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the comment on Article 8 on the reference to the amended articles of the current law and not to the articles of the amendment in question. Such a reference, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, constitutes a systemic derogation from the established legal solutions. Furthermore, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed to the need for a clearer definition of the time-limit for the changed mode of accounting and the absence of an explanation of the reasons for the conditions relating to the resident of a non-Slovenian country in Article 5 of the Act. The debate on individual articles of the law expressed a majority opinion that the proposed measure was, however, welcome to mitigate the negative effects of incentives for minimum income debtors, while doubts were expressed as to whether the proposed measure was also the most effective way to address the problems. Some alternative proposals were also put forward in the debate, such as the reduction of income rates, the increase in general tax relief or even consideration of adapting the whole system of social transfers. The discussion also expressed a position on a relatively late government measure, since it would normally be normal for tax legislation to be amended in parallel with the adoption of the budget. In particular, in the debate, the proposed measures were aimed at mitigating the situation of the most vulnerable population. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 4 of the Law in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure and, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted the amendments of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the DeSUS to Article 8 of the Law, but did not adopt the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same Article. The Committee also discussed the Committee's amendment proposal to correct the reference to the provisions of individual Article 8 paragraphs in accordance with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Lawmakers opposed such solutions, despite the persistence of the legal and legal service. In view of the conflicting views, the Committee has not drawn up its amendment to Article 8 and estimates that this issue needs to be clarified before the debate at the plenary session of the National Assembly and, if necessary, corrected by an appropriate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the views of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President. In the Group of Members, we really believe that there is something to be done in the area of income. The fact is that inflationary pressures are high and that they have hit the lowest income classes, which allocate the largest proportion of their incomes to the necessities of life, to food and energy, which are also the most expensive in recent years. Of course, we will support the proposed solutions as a contribution to mitigating the problem of inflation. We regret, however, that the Government has not done this in a significantly better way than the proposed way. In fact, the proposed reliefs introduced by the Government are quite ineffective in at least two aspects. Firstly, it should be borne in mind that if we calculate how much these reliefs will mean to an individual debtor, we find that on average their monthly net income will increase by 20 euros. The 20 euros we have witnessed in all these last auctions, and those we are still expecting in March, are followed by the promotions of the already announced meat, it is dripping into the sea more than some serious mitigation of the social crisis we are witnessing. And a second time. It should be pointed out that those who are most at risk, and these are the families in the lowest income classes with more children, already now have more benefits than they have any income and will not benefit them in any way. Obviously, only this measure, which is in the form of an 8% increase in the child supplement, is envisaged by the Government, which is once again, if you convert it into euro, a completely negligible amount compared to these exposures that are happening to us. The second point to be taken very seriously, however, is that we regret that you have not taken into account the proposal of the Zares Group, which we have also presented publicly, which is that it would be significantly better to lower the threshold tax rates in the lowest income class and to introduce an additional allowance for the most vulnerable. Indeed, following this proposal now proposed by the Government, the fact that those with EUR 670 net income will not receive any relief. And now imagine the cases of a person who has 670 euros or 700 euros in income and who still has an unemployed spouse and has no additional benefits. For these, the Government obviously does not provide for any action. And I'm really asking you here, government representatives, do you really think that someone who has €670 a month's net income, including an unemployed dependent family member or a marriage partner, can spend a month with that amount? Why have you forgotten about this class of people, why have you completely ignored those who are still quite socially at risk? In fact, the Slovenian tax system does not know the concept of family income. And if you now have an individual who, as I said, earns more than €670 and still has, say, an unemployed family member, you can't solve their problem in any way. Even if there is no dependent family member, yet in today's world, the impression that we are witnessing from day to day, from month to month, is completely incomprehensible how the government could have cut this limit so harshly and said that those who have 670 euros or an additional euro more, those who do not deserve any tax relief, but find yourself, as you know and know, what we are witnessing to them and who we will witness to are simply not. The fact is that, therefore, in the Group of Members, we really think that a different way of solving would be better and that in this crisis situation, we should consider the Danish supplement that we have proposed and, however, we should consider how to help these in the medium term, if it is someone who deserves EUR 670, even the middle layer, or if it can actually come through with all these auctions. We have forgotten about these people in all these proposals, and this is to be pointed out, and that is why, today, on behalf of the Group of Members, I really express our expectation that the Government will also address the problems of these people, who are very large and who have been completely missed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, even in our parliamentary group, we will have no doubts and unitedly support the proposed changes or additional tax reliefs, but we do not imagine that this is more than a patch on, say, this bleeding wound. We also agree that it will be necessary to consider, for a long time, different and more qualitative measures to prevent the recurrence of these kinds of problems that we are currently dealing with. These problems are the problems of a specific situation. Today, we are in a situation where, on the one hand, we are happy to say that we have some good macroeconomic results and, on the other hand, we do not secretly recognize how much we fear inflationary pressures that do not want to stop. On the one hand, when we talk about how fast the prices of living needs are rising, which most affect the lowest layers, when we are in the middle of widespread forecasts of strike and when more and more people are approaching the threshold of poverty. Probably political imperatives, such as those talking about how elections need to be exacerbated this year, how we need to take into account, how we need to take into account, and how we need to take into account, in fact, pre-election heating. Some of the proposed measures are only understandable within this context. So it is not a coincidence that we are continuing an extraordinary meeting today. And it is no coincidence that there are five agenda items at this extraordinary meeting that are all necessary. So, we are dealing with emergency procedures at emergency meetings themselves, and this is probably about how to draw some guidance for longer-term action and for a more peaceful treatment of such problems. The government is also doing this with the help of some others in two ways: first, by putting into the process those laws that we are dealing with now, which have been mentioned and which will contribute something to obtain, through additional income relief, those who are the lowest at the bottom of the income, to gain something from the elderly with the correction of the protective allowance and to obtain something from those who will receive higher child allowances. At least two other attempts are foreseen: one is our attempt to improve certain other social transfers, or to adjust them differently, and one that is more or less pre-choice, because it will only take effect in the next term, with regard to the diet of the student or her regression. All these mitigating measures are, of course, supported by the DeSUS Group. However, it should be noted that these measures are very different for different social groups. If we sum up the measures cumulatively, those relating to the improvement of child allowances and what will bring additional income benefits, this will be estimated at around €80 million. However, when we find out how much of what is meant for the elderly, we are 15 times lower in the amount, 5 or 6 million in the allowance and in the widow's pensions. That doesn't seem to be the most balanced either. As far as the Income Relief Act is concerned, it will bypass, as we have heard, the middle layer, bypass the elderly, bypass the pensioners, and only partially, in low amounts and low percentages, it will help those who are the lowest at the bottom of the benefits. And what they're going to get is actually going to be less than they've already lost and as they're going to be lost as inflation continues. Nevertheless, we will support this in the DeSUS Group, because these are mitigating measures. We believe, however, that if our 2006 proposals, when we adopted income legislation, were to be adopted, we would not have prevented what we now have on the wallpaper and the negative effects would probably be smaller. We therefore propose that the various levels of income burden be reconsidered, as we have proposed two years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u10	The Honorable President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. What we accept today is mild - tempered heathen. Let's be honest. Every thing is good and bad. A mild thirst because I believe that this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act will receive majority support, if not absolute support. And let's not be hypocritical here, and let's tell the truth that we can afford people. The mild - tempered heathen is this marriage because it's a little late. Like I said, every thing is good and bad. If we return to 2006, when we have taken away 2% of the benefits that all average citizens and citizens are expected to bring more or less euros, they have been abolished by this amendment of the Income Act. We have so much to be honest with and tell people in front of us. Another fact that is true is that my words on behalf of the Slovenian National Party can be supported or broken is that we are all aware that 2008 is the electoral year. And for this reason, of course, this proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Income Act has also come out. But no matter what. Thank God it's election year, because we're gonna try to help people with this law. And that we will not repeat all those words and calculations that are recorded in the rapporteurs, in the bill and so on, if we are very honest: with the proposed amendment, the tax burden on the income of natural persons who do not exceed EUR 9 000 per annum, taxpayers with an annual salary of 6,800 will have a higher or additional allowance of 6.5% higher net salary or an increase of EUR 320 per annum, which is a good 82% of the current minimum wage currently in force. It's true, it's true! But the calculation, if you do it, means that it will increase by 26 euros per month for the named category. That I will not be critical of the government, of ministers and of us, now I do not know the relationship, but of 60 euros. 26:60. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, that's how it is. However, the completion of Article 31(3) and the completion of Article 152, paragraph 4, of the Income Act, which speak one of the disability organisations and the other of the actual purchase value of securities and so on, are the result, I am proud to say, of our commons in the past, of the Slovenian National Party's Group. We have given a parliamentary initiative to the Minister of Finance. The initiative was and is adopted in the amendment to the Income Act, which the Minister also answered in the paper along with the question in the annex. That is why, in our opinion, this is a good reason for this law, I can honestly say, to support and help people with changes and additions to the income law. But once again, what we did in 2006 took 2% of the general benefits to people is not good. Today we put out fires, we talk about blissful thirst, if you want to in an understandable language - one more, the other less. In the Slovenian National Party, we will insist that this will not only be the pre-election promise of all of us, you and us, especially the Government, but that this will also be the goal below, no matter who will be in the government, and no matter who will sit in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! Where have we brought this country, or better yet, where have you brought this country? Every day we meet new higher prices. Every day we face new desires for higher wages, because people simply cannot follow irritations. We find out about new inflationary pressures every day. Every day there's something worse in this country. I think it's essential to answer where we're taking this country. In the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members, the self-named Lipa, we are more than convinced that it is pleasing to the ears, that in the framework of the National Assembly we meet with "per partes" laws that are supposed to solve matters in some area. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the situation within our country and the content of this law before us, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia determines us through the back door what the benefits are, which will mark the middle class in our country. However, the framework set by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the so-called medium class on the basis of capital power has been so low that this middle class in each comparable European country falls deep within the socially threatened category. The fact is that the government is building, unfortunately, in my opinion wrong - middle class includes those families where one employee has to spend 700 euros a month with an unemployed partner. This is also the dimension of this law, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is now offering us for admission. The representative of the Government - and I am sorry that today the President of the Government has not been with us, because the fact that there are concerns about inflation, about the existence of a tendency to raise prices, the entire Slovenian policy has known for two years that all macroeconomicists know about this existence, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responded for the first time in January 2008, while we have incentives - and a hand to the heart, because we are not affected by high personal incomes or higher - since the middle of the previous massive year. The response was just the opposite. Until last year, the end of last year, the government has told us that we have a wonderful economic growth - nothing can happen to us. At the end of the year, the government even said that we have a budget surplus - nothing can happen to us. Representatives of macroeconomic institutions said that in March everything would be in order, everyone would forget. But the facts are different. Unfortunately, we went to a period of inflationary spiral, where inflation-promoting tendencies arise from day to day and under increasingly specific conditions, in the form of wage increases, producer or seller survival requirements. But no, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with a "per partes" law, whose content, I stress, is, of course, acceptable, because I believe that we all strive to equalize or bind the minimum wage with tax relief. However, this must not be the only proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not acknowledged this danger in the past period, it would be reasonable to get the whole package; to know what the instruments we will be fighting together against this danger that our country has already survived in the former SFRJ and all - I believe that, above all, the older ones - are reminded of what inflationary spiral means, what the impact is not only on a person at the social bottom, seen through material goods, but such an insurmountable approach exclusively for that segment that is only and only at the social bottom. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not lead to a quality solution. The law is fundamental to support, but we must not stop it today, but in particular the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its fight, must extend it, not that the Government creates a negative situation with economic development agents, with social partners, social partners. I therefore propose that representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia meet with representatives of the parliamentary groups without delay [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u13	Time's up!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support all the measures that help to mitigate the consequences of expensiveness that we have witnessed in Slovenia in recent months, and thus support the amendment of the Income Act. This is the first of the laws or measures that we are considering at today's session, which, in conjunction with others - namely, the amendment of the Law on the Protection Supplement and the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits - are intended to alleviate the situation of those with the lowest income. These are measures that, in fact, are intended to mitigate in the first place the consequences of unjustified food promotions that have jumped significantly more than in other European Union countries in Slovenia, as we have seen from statistics. It's not because of manufacturers that there's not gonna be a misunderstanding, it's because of traders and their connections. After all, the rather strange and specific situation in Slovenia in this area also shows the statement of former director Mercator, who said that if he were still the director of this chain, inflation would not be as high as it is. I think this statement itself tells us everything, and the government and the National Assembly are the ones who have to respond to such phenomena. For those with the lowest remuneration, i.e. those who receive up to EUR 6800 per year, the relief will increase by EUR 2000 and those in the 6801 class to EUR 9000 by EUR 1000. Of course, these changes need to be seen in relation to all other measures and not in a partial and independent manner, as has been said many times, because only tax policy cannot generate measures in this area of social policy. As a result, the changes discussed below, as well as all the others that we will witness to in the future, are important. We discussed two amendments on the committee. One of the amendments referred to the change in the enforcement of so-called capital gains, which should also apply to what happened in 2007, is also true for the sales that took place in 2007 and which are to be announced in the forecast this year and this amendment has been adopted. Now, what's this all about? I think it is important in this place in a plastic and simple way to say that with this change we have allowed people not to pay the loss tax. Because of a provision of the Income Act, which we have amended in the past, in certain cases they would not have taken into account the purchase and sale value of shares, but the bookkeeping value of 1.1.2006, and because of this specification, someone who, for example, bought 100 shares in 2001, sold them for 90 in 2007, and their book value was 80, would actually pay the tax on that difference, not from the actual purchasing-selling difference due to this specific provision of the law, which I have already mentioned. And this novel removes this inappropriate solution, it says, prevents people from paying a loss tax. With regard to the second amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, which we also have today on the bench, which states that these changes to these with the lowest incomes should already apply to the 2007 income bill, it must be said that when we voted on this proposal, none of the opposition or one was present on the committee. This suggests the seriousness of this treatment, indicating that it's a strange move, you might say populism. Even today, unfortunately, I have to say that this proposal that we receive at the bench is not one of those proposals that is supposed to upgrade the solutions in this law, because it is not neutral, is one of the measures that will further boost inflation expectations with €38 million. I think that, for this reason, it is not appropriate, as is the one proposed in this part, that the lowest tax base should be reduced - it would be good if A followed B and if those who proposed it would also propose an increase in the tax base for those with the highest income. However, this was not the case, and this is the only measure I think would then cause some abnormal situation, if those who do not need such relief were to profit from it, which is why, if proposed, they would not support it. In short, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we support the amendment of the Income Act, but we cannot support the amendment as it is prepared, even because we think it was not based on some serious ambition, but for other reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u17	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President! We have repeatedly warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition over the past three years that the implementation of their coalition treaty will not end well. We predicted that the rich would be richer and poorer. In the past year, we have proposed a series of measures when it was clear that inflation is becoming a fundamental economic issue, as well as the fundamental issue of each when it comes to cash trade. All the suggestions, all the amendments you've rejected. The measures we begin to consider at this extraordinary meeting are understood as a recognition by the Government that it has made mistakes in the past - better late than never. We'll support the bill. We believe that this is the first step to correct some of the nonsense in tax reform, when the richest for capital gains pay only 4% more tax than the poorest. Unfortunately, the proposal for a law is not sufficient. The amendment we are proposing, which, according to the coalition's forecast, will not be supported, would give an additional €320 for 2007 to all who have up to €566 per month's salary. Why do you object? Just because we have a budget surplus and it turns out that there is no budget surplus, because this surplus is created on the basis of lower social transfers, at the expense of not raising the security allowance for 24 months and so on? Saving in Slovenia is not allowed if we want to maintain a just society. That is why we are proposing an amendment because if it is acceptable not to tax people who speculate for 2007, I see no reason not to give additional tax relief to those who need it at the 2007 budget surplus. Your vote on this amendment today will prove whether Janez Janša is serious about measures to facilitate the situation of those who, according to Virantov, say, "let them row". And this fundamental dilemma is that we are not all in the same boat. On the one hand, there are those who are on yachts in the middle of this or any other bay that you have given them in this mandate for 2006, 2007 and 2008 up to a thousand euros a month's salary. Today, you are proposing that some get 26 more euros a month. It is only those who cannot pay their salary over €566 this year, because in the case of going beyond €566 their net is paid or an additional tax relief immediately halves. A very perfidious measure to reduce the pressure on sentences! It's about who's going to cover the burden of reducing inflation. And we believe that in 13% of inflation, 11% of budget expenditure growth is unacceptable, that minimum wages increase by 2% to 3% and that pensions have increased by 2%. That is why we support this law and propose an amendment with which to give the most difficult people an additional €320. If you support this, we'll see in the vote. Of course, we expect the Government - as it does in the world of all serious governments - to end the policy of 'the richest will be richer and poorer' and to prepare a serious adjustment programme [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] all in Slovenia. [[...]] Is this really going to be a blessing to everyone?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u19	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. We will also support the proposed amendments and additions to the Income Act, which are targeted - so we understand - in particular to improve the situation of those taxpayers who have the lowest income and the lowest income. We understand this as a response from the Government to high inflation, to the consequences of high inflation, and we have already heard that the beneficiaries, for example, will receive €6800 higher net salary at the annual level. This is why we support this change in the LDS. We estimate that this will slightly improve the situation for those most affected by inflation. In doing so, we find at least two: the first is that the proposed amendment of the law will not improve the situation for all those who need it most. The proposed change will not improve the situation for those who already have so low incomes that they do not exceed the existing relief and the increased relief will have absolutely no impact on them. And worst of all, it is those with the lowest income, with the most difficult social status, that is not what we are improving the social situation and not addressing the negative consequences of inflation. The second thing we find is that this is a measure that is not designed to address the causes and causes of inflation; hence, it does not solve the situation in the long term, which does not address the consequences of inflation in the long term. No! No! On the contrary! This measure will not be sufficient, subject to the additional auctions already announced. It will probably be necessary to continue with similar ones, which, instead of reducing inflation, will contribute to even higher inflation. That's another reason we're having second thoughts. Even more so, as we pointed out to the Government in June last year, with a question from our fellow Member, Sayovic, that inflation will become so high by the end of the year that the problem will be, and that it will affect those with the lowest income, especially those with the highest share of energy, nutrition, in the budget. That's when the government didn't react. The government was first warned in essence a year ago when Banka Slovenije issued or when several scenarios were made public by Banka Slovenije and the black one, of course, predicted exactly the inflation that has now taken place. At that time, the government pushed their heads into the ground, accused Banka Slovenije of unconstitutional conduct, but unfortunately, instead of taking them seriously, they ignored them, and now we are exactly what we could have heard a year ago that was going to happen. At the same time, if we are already putting out the fire, let us do it effectively and put it out as much as possible. For this reason, it would be more effective if the Government had introduced a relief from 1.1.2007, which would have direct and immediate effects on the rise and facilitating the situation of those most in need. In the bill we also support the exemption of income for occasional and temporary care benefits, and we also support the abolition of an incomprehensible provision that the Government has entered into in the existing Income Law on capital gains, because some of the laws currently in force must pay capital gains even if they have a capital loss. In the LDS Club, we support the proposal of the law, but at the same time we call on the Government to do everything in its power to eliminate inflationary trends and curb inflation, because this is the only way we will be able to ensure a stable economy and also social security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment of the Income Act, as it will significantly improve the material position of those with the lowest income, in combination with the higher child allowances, by amending the Law on the Protection of Parental Protection and Family Benefits. We also support the idea that workers with the lowest wages and pensioners with the smallest pensions would be exempt from TV contributions. In New Slovenia, we will also support a change in the budget, which is expected to reduce public spending, particularly in terms of military expenditure. We are convinced, however, that in Slovenia public consumption is not a driver of inflation, as year after year according to the gross domestic product achieved, the budget deficit is also decreasing. Moreover, in 2007 we will have a budget surplus for the first time. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the reasons for inflation must be sought primarily at the high price of oil and other energy products, which directly or indirectly affect the price of goods and services to which the Government and the coalition have no influence. The main generator of high inflation is, in our view, the price of food on the global market and especially at our home. In the triangular of production, processing and trade, according to the organization and power far the biggest piece is available to traders, which is not least evident from the great profits they have. When we discussed Mercator's property transformation on one of the many commissions, the former director of this company said that traders could contribute significantly more to the calming of inflation. Third, in our view, it is not a key issue, however, that the introduction of the euro, which has certainly had an impact on price increases due to the rounding of prices in low-cost products. The fourth and not least important reason for relatively high inflation in Slovenia, according to the New Slovenia Group, is significantly increased access to capital through business banks and private economic operators by introducing the euro, which certainly has an impact on high economic growth and also on price growth. We believe that the proposal prepared by the Government is good because it covers the most vulnerable segments of the population and will allow an additional income of between 160 and 320 euros to be added to the beneficiaries in 2008 at the annual level. There is no way, however, that we accept the proposal of the Group of Social Democrats, presented by Mr Pahor at the press conference. He proposed a reduction in the minimum tax rate by 1 to 2 percentage points, from 16 to 14%. This proposal would bring everyone, including those with high salaries, to the most vulnerable only €20 to €80 per annum. In the New Slovenia Group, we also support all the other improvements made by the proposal for a law, in particular the facilitation of those benefits paid by disabled persons organisations. Finally, in our view, it would be necessary to say that the Government has done much to relieve wages: to abolish taxes on paid salaries, to substantially reduce income and tax rates, to introduce a significantly higher overall relief, to reduce the corporate income tax. All these tax measures have resulted in higher economic growth and also significantly higher exports than in previous years. It must also be said that it is this government that, despite great domestic and foreign pressures, has introduced and retained the reconciliation of pensions with wage increases, which has been completely unacceptable for today's opposition before. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u24	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed Act on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act, because the aim of the proposed amendments is to improve the material situation of those most affected by the recent price rise. The prices of the most basic foods, the prices of some basic services are rising, and we therefore believe that the negative effects of increasing the price of living needs should be reduced as soon as possible. In a given situation and in line with rapid action, the tax burden of low-income people must be reduced to ensure that their income is not reduced in real terms and that their survival is not threatened. In the Slovenian People's Party in the field of labour taxation, our main starting point remains the unloading of the weakest segment of the population. The State must exempt from taxation that part of the salary or income that represents the minimum survival. The measures under consideration are certainly going in this direction today, but of course we are aware that the changes to the Income Act are primarily an intervention because of the seriousness of the situation and that other long-term measures are needed to reintroduce inflation – the government has already begun with these measures. The bill provides a total of 205,000 debtors who will be granted an annual relief of €4960, or who benefit from a total of €6800 to €9000. The additional relief is therefore foreseen at two levels and can be taken into account when the income accrued from the employment and pension income to be paid in February of this year is adjusted. We are aware that 6.5% higher net wages or an increase in income of up to €320 per year do not exactly provide a solution for people who, with their incomes, are already breaking through from month to month, but it is necessary to know that this is only one of the government's measures to mitigate the effects of inflation. At the same time, we must not overlook the fact that the minimum aid to people who lack the basic necessities of life is even more welcome. When you are running out of food, every euro is welcome, so it would not be right if measures with seemingly small effects were considered irrelevant or less important. We will also support the bill because it foresees changes in the area of benefits for occasional or temporary care or assistance to persons with disabilities. According to the law, income payments would also be exempt from the benefits paid to natural persons by local disability organisations. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also support the proposal to take into account the actual value of securities or shares acquired before 1 January 2003, if they are above the market or book value on 1 January 2006. We certainly support the provisions of the proposal for a law that eliminates incompatibility with European Community legislation and the Agreement on the European Economic Area. We agree that grants for the amount of payments in money or nature for humanitarian, charitable, cultural, scientific, educational, sports, ecological and religious purposes will also be recognised as tax reliefs to residents of Slovenia, residents of other EU Member States and residents of countries that are parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area in addition to EU Member States. Finally, let us point out once again that tax legislation cannot fully address the negative effects of inflation and that other measures, particularly systemic macroeconomic measures, will therefore have to be taken to reduce inflation. [[End warning sign]] . We will therefore support the proposal of the Income Act, in the belief that it will at least help to alleviate the material situation of people with the lowest income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to this article. It is Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening applications for discussion. Mr. Pache, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to adhere to the contents of the amendment and, above all, to the content of Article 8. However, because I think that under tax legislation the relationship between the effects of the tax on price movements, on the one hand, and on the other, the situation in the country is so wide, I will ask you to leave me with a little elasticity if you assess. I would like to point out the amendment that we have on the table today, which some parliamentary groups have already decided not to support, I am basically predicting that we will support it in the Lipa Group itself. My purpose or discussion is mainly to convince the other Members and Members who have the right to vote to join in their support. If the Government's representative basically said that this was the first step in the fight against inflation or raising the general standard of living, then we must assume that at least the first step should be taken definitively. Let the first step be taken from point A at point B and the amendment that is before us today, regardless of the words that some representatives have had in principle a ruling policy, it should be pointed out that, as proposed, at least that part of the citizens and citizens who are at the extreme edge of existential survival. The explanation below says and I would like to see that this is also the basis for decision-making within the framework of the General Assembly in the evening. In its mandate, the government gave the richest Slovenia a relief of thousands and more euros per month to the socially disadvantaged, and it also committed up to 40 times less. I believe in the part that has been highlighted by the representatives of individual political groups represented in this National Assembly. So that there is no way to fix the borders at a very low level that will determine the minimum existence, and this limit should still be pushed down. Because the fact is that if the National Assembly agrees to this theory, then not only will there be a shift - but they should not call me, who do not believe that I am an idealist, but, if we are in the European Union, it is necessary to proceed in addition to European prices or to tend to European revenues in particular. And unless the amendment is adopted, there will be a shift or gap between the objective, which I think needs to be pursued within the framework of the National Assembly as the legislative branch of government. So unless the amendment is accepted. With this title, of course, I appeal to all Members and Members, and above all to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that if it has decided today and now, unfortunately, it is too late to step on the inflationary aspirations or initial inflation spirals in the form of a daily price rise, that at least the first step is taken or a step towards a particular segment of our society, so I say that "per partes" is a step, to be made as a decisive step, not to take half the solutions already within one segment of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u27	Thank you. I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Zupan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government. I would like to refer to the amendment, but I think the issue is broader and it is right to say a few more words. The macroeconomic indicators in Slovenia are good and we can be satisfied with this. Except inflation. We are aware that inflation is a general social disease in which the role of a healer should be performed by all, and especially by those most called for it. The fact is that inflation in Slovenia is higher than in the euro area countries. The main reason is the increase in prices of raw materials and oil, and this increase in prices of Slovenia was not so high, and it is important that we derive from the initial higher inflation, which is why inflation differences are higher. The other reason is that there is poor competitiveness in Slovenia. It must be acknowledged, however, that traders were holding back prices in the period before we arrived in the euro area and that we can in some way recognise their state-of-the-art behaviour. Last year, the months of June, they started to increase the prices of their products, trying to account for what they lost. The government responded to inflation. It has also reacted by amending and supplementing the Income Act to try to reduce the problems they face due to inflation in some way to people with the lowest income. The proposed increase in general income relief is expected to improve the situation of 200,000 employees. This relief is expected to be taken into account, recognised in the calculation of the deposit in this year and, in some ways, brought a slightly lower amount to the employees of the lowest incomes than the lowest wage, which is the 320 euros. That's a little bit. However, in limited financial capacity, this also means that efforts are made to help the population with the lowest incomes not to seriously reduce their income. I believe that the proposed amendment is too much in the financial situation of the country, because inflation has not actually taken place throughout 2007, so I support the amendment of the Income Act and I think that this will be one of the solutions that will contribute to improving the situation of the most vulnerable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I would, however, support the proposed amendment if I did not hear the proposaler and also know from the everyday public notices and everyday debates that we are considering one of the measures today, and that is the Income Act. In fact, this is only one of the measures that this Government has now put to the debate. We must be aware that 205,000 people are involved in this measure and that 38 million euros of money are involved in this measure. This is not a small amount after all. At the same time, I would like to say that the other of these measures, which bring to the lowest levels a higher standard, is also a children's allowance, which we will consider at the next point, where it increases by 8.4%. But not only for these 8.4% - only the basis increases, this is followed by a 3.2% increase in the annual coordination account. Not to mention matters that we also witnessed in this high congregation when we were managing pensions. When we regulated pensions, we know what - I'll say domestically - "rompom" was when we suggested that pensions be aligned with the system that is now in force. And not only that, but also the pensioners who made their pension in other countries of the Republic of Yugoslavia. At that time, we were talking about breaking the financial system, breaking the budget, breaking the state. That was heard here in this room. Today, after three years, the country still exists, there is no fracture, even the surplus is in the budget. Here we will also talk about the protection allowance in the following points. It will also bring one piece of relief to these most needed layers of our population. I guess something's gonna happen on minimum wages, too. The coalition has passed a law on student diet - we will also help all students to make it easier for them to spend the month. And all these are the actions of this country now that we have good economic growth, when we have a good basis for sharing these things. We must be aware that even if it does not create enough, the social state does not have the conditions for sharing. And such demagogies, I think you should definitely say no. We have undertaken this income law in the form we have taken, with two steps. But it is true that each step is problematic, each step causes some trauma to a particular group. It's always been that way, and it always will be. The most affected are those just below that limit. That makes sense. But anyway, I can't imagine how soft it is to land from a ladder to a ladder. Every landing on a scale is hard, not soft. I support this law myself, and I think it's in the right direction. Those affected today by inflation, which is unfortunately our reality, will in fact make life easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, there have been quite a few comments why the members of the opposition hope to propose this amendment at all. First, I must say that the reason why we could propose it is very simple: this article is open. And you opened this article because you want to make it possible for those who have the most to pay less capital gains for 2007. And that's your sovereign decision. We don't even object. However, when it is right that those who have the most pay less capital profits for 2007 or after you have adopted tax reform in 2006 and you have paid us all who are sitting in this National Assembly for 2006 back a few hundred euros and give the richest up to 1,000 euros a month more net salary when you have done so, say that there are not 35,38 million euros of money in the State budget for those who are going the hardest, that is, demagogies! Janez Janša, Andrej Bajuk and others boast of high economic growth. This economic growth has, of course, also affected inflation. And there is a difference between those who have a lot of capital gains that up until yesterday increased their potential consumption, and those who have nothing, have a minimum wage that you practically froze to the so-called Bayuk inflation 2% in this National Assembly, or have social allowances that you have frozen for 25 months in this 2005 and 2006 National Assembly. And that's what we want to help. Not to help from February, March ahead, during the pre-election period, but if you are generous, if there is economic growth, if there are surpluses, let us help for 2007! Don't worry there won't be a budget surplus. The budget surplus according to European methodologies is anyway not in 2007, as some of the debts of Slovenian railways have been assumed. The budget surplus in 2007 after Janšev is not the first surplus we have ever had in Slovenia. We had a budget surplus every year until 1996. Then look at the information in the newsletter of Banka Slovenije, formerly the National Bank of Slovenia, and the Ministry of Finance! Then tell Mr. Bajuk, your client chief, to stop deceiving the Slovenian public when he announces the surplus of the state budget by 1996. So, our amendment is very simple because there is a financial source created by those who "wrong" because this financial source is from high profits, high capital gains, high taxes, high corporate taxes, even - if you want - at the expense of some divisions between the state and the municipalities, these resources are; so let's give people really help. This is very easy to do: Mr Simič makes two corrections to the computer program that calculates income, and on 31 March these people or these people could get an additional 320 euros. You're afraid it'll affect inflation. Please, where were you when you gave 1,000 euros to individuals, as he said, I quote Mr Damian: "Some got a BMW," I quote him now, "the other for beer and sausage". That is why the amendment of the Social Democrats is in line with what we say all the time. Last year we proposed some changes, sir, which is now saying'matilda' has rejected this amendment or these proposals with disgust, the President of the Government did not want to hear about helping with some additions. Today, some in the newspaper are writing why it was not particularly helpful to those who have the lowest pensions, more than to those who have the highest pensions, which was our proposal in 2005, and was not a proposal to oppose the rise of pensions, but a question of how to raise them! So, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, it is up to you that we cannot vote on this amendment alone, if we do not vote, but cannot vote on it. The Coalition of Slovenia said that it would not support this – so I heard explicitly from the SLS, I did not quite hear exactly what I heard, but I understand that, as they suggest, we are discussing the amendment of the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, this is one of the acceptable measures, I think. And here the matter is very simple: can the coalition of Slovenia be open to proposals that help those who need the most, after you have accepted the amendment of Article 8, by which you help those who do not need help, but obviously you are dependent on them, and these are the ones who have the most. And I believe that people who lost some 10, 100 million euros of some wealth on the stock market yesterday, I believe that you want to help them, but don't make it impossible for us to help those who really need help and didn't hear about the stockbroke yesterday, but they see the break of their wallets when they go shopping in their stores. Therefore, the only possible assistance is the adoption of the amendment. We will see what measures the Government will take, so far not many, and if you lock yourself in on whether this would have a negative impact on - how already - budget surpluses, then I know what these measures will be: only imaginary, without real effects for people. Just like you've been doing all this time. That is why I conclude: this mandate and the rich have indeed become richer in this mandate, and the poor are no longer able to survive, so strike. We can reduce these pressures if there is will in this National Assembly. Support the amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Mr President, President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! Let me say hello to my new neighbors first. Since I haven't been in this session, they've joined me here. I hope that I will learn more from them, and they have also taken on a very beautiful Slovenian name. They're called Lipa. However, I would like to say that, you know, this fragmentation of parliamentary groups into some small groups in some way increases public spending, increases the cost of working in the National Assembly, and this also in some ways contributes to inflation. But the government can't influence this, they're just happening past the government. This is one contribution from our colleagues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u35	Mr. Sok, this really isn't marriage. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u36	She's not married, but there's been a lot of talk on this side. I'll let it go. But I'd say about this amendment, which is really a very simple amendment, as my colleague Squeakle said. I am surprised to hear here that there was no opposition member on the committee. If this is true, then I can say that it is again a game designed for the public, it is said, here primarily populist, demagogically speaking about various things, there on the committee, where these matters should be discussed more thoroughly, but there was no representative of the opposition. I believe that, for example, there was no such thing as Mr Squeak, and that the coalition has adopted a package of these laws that we have before us today, obviously alone. And they are all very important together, they must be seen as a whole because they all bring together: this income law brings relief, while the burden, other child support laws, and other social transfers bring some supplements. More than 200,000 citizens and citizens who deserve that minimum will benefit from this law. And why this happened - so we're saying that because of inflation. And when our citizens and citizens listen to us, in a way, with what they hear, they may be surprised to have different arguments. The fact is that a good part of the inflation in Slovenia through energy imports through food imports has been imported. It is true, however, that one part of inflation in Slovenia has been upgraded. And this can be very dangerous for all those who have done so, in a way. Because this can have consequences - and the more we talk about it, the more it is written about it, the worse the situation - the result can be that it can easily reduce the consumption of Slovenian articles. I've already noticed in the media that this has started to occur in this way. It is said that this data has actually been published. And if this continues, then in some segment of the Slovenian manufacturing industry, this intention, and also the commercial network, can end in a negative direction. I ask whether the Slovenian government, which Mr Squikl practically accuses of everything, will be responsible for such a situation. It is most likely also responsible for the fact that it is not the real winter in Slovenia this year. I remember his discussions when we were here adopting a correction of pension legislation. How energetic he was to say that the pension system would collapse, so that the Slovenians would lose their pension system and so on. None of this happened! We're listening to another story today. It says that the government did not react at the right time, that it did nothing - but if that were the case, then at the moment we would not have a surplus in the budget. And it is precisely because of this budget surplus that the Government can peacefully propose to the National Assembly some measures to mitigate the situation that has arisen. Also, the sovereign debt that his president is talking about to increase is essentially declining. And what we can read in the media today, the work, the economic and financial week, detracts from Mr Pahor's statements with an analytical approach that what is said is not true and that, as a percentage of gross social product, the debt of the country is actually decreasing. This amendment is simply written, but at the moment it is not to be supported, because we are actually solving some situation in the package, parallel to other laws, at the moment and beyond. However, it is not simply with a school case that a very simply written amendment can fix something for a period when this inflation was not so evident. And I understand this amendment of the Social Democrats only as some way that they can get an opportunity here in Parliament today and talk about everything that is possible. Everything that's true and that's not true. That's the point, that's some kind of damagogy. Let me also draw your attention to today's article by Mr Mic Mrkaić in Finance, which also reveals this excessive speech in such a way, I would say, the populist, demagogic way that we have received from some fellow Members, in particular by the Members of the Social Democrats, whose party president has practically already declared himself president of the new Slovenian government. However, he will have to wait a few months for us to have an election first, only then will he be able to make a similar prediction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u37	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u38	First, it is necessary to tell colleagues: the opposition was at a meeting of the Committee on Finance from 12.00 to 2.00 p.m. and then, at 2.00 p.m., an urgent meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision began, where we found out where 200 million euros of money from the privatisation of SIJ went. Of course, we have assessed, as we see today, that you tabled an amendment to Article 8, so we knew that your amendment would be accepted and our amendment rejected. And today we have an open-ended debate in the National Assembly. Perhaps it was even tactically good, because if we had already taken all the debate that we had, Mr Shircelj would remember this debate, you knew that we were already proposing and confirming this amendment. Regarding the vote - voting is always the responsibility of the coalition in parliamentary democracy. You must accept this, we do not have this power to accept this amendment, so it is up to you. But you can't go beyond what you've done. With this law, you fully recognize that you have been leading a policy for three years where the poor have become poorer and richer. And even though the Prime Minister of the Government would still want to, the opposition cannot self-absorb. Pensions - let me repeat, we have proposed, the whole opposition then, an amendment with which the lowest pensions would increase faster. And then you proposed to coordinate pensions with salaries and then to freeze the coordination of all social transfers for 25 months. They're frozen today! We objected to that. There was still a few inaccuracies, but there was only one more about the debt. Mr Aloise Sok, in 2004, Slovenia was in charge of 7,000 euros, today 16,500 - Slovenia in full! And the statement was never about a legal person. Yugoslavia, too, was not in debt when it fell apart, but was in charge of legal entities. And that's what we're talking about, and that's the problem! And to say that economic growth is high, because people have increased their debt by 5 times more than their added value, it is a wrong economic policy. And I can explain to you further some of the details of the problems, of course, if that's what you want. So, I reject all the insinuations that the opposition did not take part in this, the opposition cooperated by bringing the debate to the National Assembly, where deciding on this amendment will tell whether the coalition Slovenia is broad-minded or narrow-minded and only cares about the capital gains of the richest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment, which we have on the table of motioners very certainly likes the amendment, is currently unacceptable to me for a number of reasons, both technical and organisational, as well as time-consuming, it would probably be difficult to make it as the proposal suggested, a very simple amendment which, I think, will not have a positive conclusion in this National Assembly. For all this inflation, which we have been talking about in recent months really every day, I am sure that it is not only the Slovenian government, but also the external influences, whether we recognise or not - oil, food on the market, which are somehow related to this growth in Slovenia. It is true that inflation is one of the Slovenian diseases in the European Union that we have been experiencing in the last few months, and it is therefore necessary for all actors who can certainly influence this problem to be tackled in the first place by the Slovenian Government. I think that this first part of this package of laws is one of those who can do something about it; the second part, I hope, is followed by other actors of this story later, such as the Slovenian economy and traders, if you want - and I hope, however, if you come together with good intentions, I am sure that within a few months this Slovenian disease will also be successfully welcomed in the European Union and come to the place where the Slovenian economy belongs in view of all the other positive effects we have. It is true, however, that, after all, low incomes, low wages and low pensions have certainly reached a large proportion of the Slovenian population. Especially in those parts of Slovenia that are less developed, less economically developed, which have an industry such as textile, labour intensive industries, wood processing, metal, which have always been on the tail of Slovenian wages, always! And more today. And those workers and those regions are experiencing this time extremely difficult because the wages are between 350 and 400 euros, which is a little bit today - not pay, but some reward that I am not talking about some disability pensions. Just yesterday there was a citizen with me and he said a little bit, his invalidity pension is 190 euros. 190 Euros! Whether this is appropriate for life at this time can be answered by everyone in this House. And I think that here is this measure that the Government has given to these 200,000 citizens and citizens in particular, to offer what it can offer in this package right now. That is why I welcome such a law, I welcome this measure, it is never too late, and it is not too late now that the Government has decided to do so and that these things will try at least partially to mitigate, but not only the Government, but also employers could do something in their own companies, in particular those that have relatively good business successes, big profits and where managers have very good salaries, including those in state companies, not only those in private companies. This is already another story that this Parliament and this Government probably have much less influence on, although in those companies where the country still has a majority package, it might be able to take more action than it has done so far, in terms of these high wages and the various supplements received by the teams running these companies. However, I hope that these steps, which I hope today, will be supported by a large majority in this House, and also by the following, will be followed by those measures, which certainly give rise to the weakest of the population a little more sun, so to speak, in this Slovenia. And secondly, even pensions that are truly very modest and with these measures will certainly help a little. As for -- my friend -- the stock exchange, these 200,000 people don't have any stock market problems because they don't have any stakes there. That's what other people have problems with. And these 200,000 people certainly don't have their savings there, and they probably never will. In the end, all I'd say is that there's a secretary of state here. Many of the social transfers offered by the State to the beneficiaries - and it is right to offer them - I still have to say that we still do not have on one common denominator all these transfers received by families, individuals in our country. Of these, there are sometimes some that are not transparent and not justified - those who may not have earned it and those who should have received it do not receive it. Here we have some work to do to bring this together into one package, to know exactly how many people, an individual per year, get from the municipality, from the state of social assistance supplement, etc. Here I think it would have been, we've already talked about it a year ago, two years ago - we don't have it today, and this system has not yet been established between Durs, between payers, such and others, so there may also be someone deprived of any social transfer that one who is not entitled to. I'd be happy to support the marriage, but not the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u41	Thank you. It's still an interest, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! On the committee when we decided on this amendment, I said earlier that there was none of the opposition, and this is credible. None. It is not a question of whether someone previously misfounded matters in the wrong way, as we are listening to them today. It's a principled question, a posture. It is whether we talk seriously or not in this National Assembly. And one of the fundamental seriousness is that the opposition, which considers that certain measures are not good and that are proposed for improvement, is sitting with it when it is decided. When she doesn't sit around, she doesn't care what she suggests. That's right. And no excuse that there were other sessions at the time would be taken into account in this case. Now, the world in this room from the plane is certainly different from there, on the street, in factories, in conversations with people. Because of this, those who talk about some of the capital gains that we have allowed by this amendment not to pay any taxes, speak in vain and you do not know what this is about, so shut the fuck up because you are deceiving and driving the worst kind of demagogy. If you don't believe us, if you don't believe the SDS, if you don't believe the coalition, at least trust your former colleagues who are sitting in LDS. Mr. Slavinac said exactly what was going on. They're probably people, people who aren't capitalists, no big shareholders. These are people who bought shares of a company in 1998 after 9.30 euros, sold them last year, because they took over and had to sell them at 7.50 euros and because the value of the bill at 1.1 was 3.75 euros, they should have paid the tax even though they realised the loss - and not a small one. There is, however, some inconsistencies in the law we adopted last year or before and where we could not predict it. No big story. Thank God this thing can be fixed and now it's getting better and that's all. That's all! And it's being patched up in Parliament. Where else is there a place in Parliament to settle these matters? That's why this amendment was tabled. So much for that. Another issue, the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats, which is supposed to be a similar situation, as in the case of a criminal decision, to the criminal standard that has to be removed under some natural law, is the situation where they suggest that two things that are somehow not good - when these reliefs introduced by the new income, in those with the lowest incomes, should also apply for 2007 - should happen. We are faced with the fact that the neutrality of this measure of EUR 38 million is not, in a single word, justified in any way. That's the first thing. And second, this 38 million euro, insofar as this change is accepted, is directly spent. It's about adding fires to inflation. And the measures that we expect to follow, and I hope that we will also receive them, I think they should go in the direction - to relieve those with the lowest incomes of certain costs that they owe. Previously, there was a talk about a fixed cost for RTV subscription, which is one of such species that cannot generate consumption if it is set aside for those with the lowest income. We're talking about kindergartens. We're talking about school meals. Here is the money that needs to be spent on these layers and not with additional amounts of money that will appear in one way or another in consumption. If these intentions, expressed at a press conference around the weaknesses of these measures that we are taking today, were realistic, then some proposals in this direction would also be received, but you have clearly estimated that what your President has proposed, I am speaking for the President of the Social Democrats, is not the best measure, which means three times, four times less than what they are accepting today. We are talking about reducing the lowest rate for those with the lowest income. On the other hand, you are at odds with yourselves, for with this also those who have the highest income would give credit to those who do not need it. And as far as I can remember, ladies and gentlemen, in all the big talk when we discussed tax legislation, on your part, none of the opposition parties came to talk about the need for higher incomes to be taxed. Interesting. A lot of talk about this and no concrete proposal. So these are the reasons why this amendment is not appropriate. It is not appropriate and therefore cannot be supported. Not because he's being proposed by the opposition. I think that the right path is in this direction, which has already been pointed out and about which has already been a lot of talk - the right way is to relieve certain costs. Now, in this connection, maybe a few more words. Some of you have already mentioned a commentator in Finance. I think there's one thing that's actually very interesting, that's this psychological aspect that we're talking about, which is very dangerous for everyone, both for the position and the opposition, and especially for people. Newspapers say, "Prices fly into the sky," and this commentator asks, "Have you ever seen anyone write, if wages go up 5.6%, what inflation is currently in Slovenia to pay to fly to the sky?" These are psychological arrests, but they can also be demagogic, which are not really healthy, far from not being aware of the seriousness of this problem and of the legislation we are adopting today, and with all the other measures announced by the Government, it is clear that both the Government and everyone else are aware of this problem and that something needs to be done to relieve those who are actually the most affected. But it is not good to bring this thing to the limits of absurdity, because I fear that we will otherwise become prisoners of some strange situation, from which we will really not find a way out - which is bad for everyone and especially for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. In opening, let me say that I will support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 8. This article covers only one sermon, built from the same sentence, so the amendment cannot be written as a novel. So much in response to those who find this amendment too simple. But the content is very important. If we are talking about the intentions of this Government, which is intended to help social inclusion of the most vulnerable groups of the population, then it should be noted, of course, that measures for active social inclusion are measured by whether the social transfers that help it are sufficient, whether the country which provides quality employment is sufficient and whether quality public services are established. We are now in what could be considered a category of sufficient social transfers or measures that help the most vulnerable groups of people. And if it had been possible in the previous year, in various debates, when I, as a member of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs or the Committee on European Affairs, had pointed out the problem of poverty in Slovenia and had been accused of social demagogies and even worse, if the Government had spent a great deal of time finding that inflation was a serious problem at all, then it would now be appropriate to take a measure that would have been valid even in 2007 if it had already decided to intervene in this segment, but had taken care of it before the decisions were written. That's why I think this amendment is good. At the same time, Mr State Secretary, I would point out once again that the decisions we receive on the assessment of income are written against the legality of the Slovenian language. When the decision tells me that, by this decision, "the employee of Majda Potrat" is given such an income, it is a violation against what Minister Gregor Virant interprets, citizens and citizens' friendly administration, because you do not take my sex into account, and secondly, you do not take into account my sense of language, which, however, speaks of the fact that we know how to avoid it in Slovenian. These are simple things about money that we've thrown away for all computer equipment, and something else, if we can't do it with simple orders to give them things that are then properly done. It seems to me that the opposition Member is a special privilege because I am automatically responsible for everything that is going on in this National Assembly. Last week, I listened to a fellow Member of Parliament who said to the opposition on the committee that we are talking too much, we are hearing today that we have not spoken as opposition Members - let us finally decide what you want in the coalition. Parliament is a place of debate and it does not matter whether it is a committee or a plenary session. Think again, coalition MPs, whether it is not worth supporting the amendment and thus getting closer to the fact that this country is a mother, not a stepmother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I didn't want to face the impressions I was listening to at the expense of Lip's own name. I would like to draw attention from this place to the actual content of the word used by one of the Members before me - the border of absurdity. Unfortunately, in the context of the debate so far, we have still observed the theory that Slovenia has an extremely high economic growth and that there is a budgetary surplus, so we have a situation, price rise, everyday stimulation, and we should not be affected at all. I think that this was one of the introductory debates between Members and Members. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must not land or take over as a fact, because the fact is completely different. The fact is that there are inducements, strike requirements and, last but not least, the predicted sentences. We come from the fact that something is wrong in our country and that this needs to be changed. In the context of the group of Members, the self-appointed Lip we believed, unfortunately, it turned out differently that in the framework of MEPs and Members of the National Assembly, at least this time when the facts are on the table, but I can also say otherwise when the facts on the price of the products are written, but I will not use the word in the trade, but anywhere else that the debate will become substantive. Unfortunately, we have come to the point where individuals say that all macroeconomic indicators are successful for our country. If that were the case, then of course the changes mentioned in the law would not be necessary, then there would be no need for strike requirements and similar things. Now the basic question - why is the opposition's amendment unacceptable to the ruling majority and thus to the number of votes that will allow the amendment not to be adopted if we have a so-called surplus in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Why not, through this surplus with which he has given us a verbal gift, not in fact, the President of the Government at the end of last year, accept the amendment and allow this amendment to be implemented in reality? Why would those who matter to you for just one year and are made up of 250,000 individuals not allow this one continuous longer period? Why partiality? I would also like to point out what I think is important, but I do not want an answer from the other Members of the ruling majority, because I do not want to start a debate, for the first time is that I have to say - but do not take it as an excuse because there is no excuse for anyone here today - the fact that if a member of the Lipa Group is to be charged with their accounts, they are exclusively citizens and citizens. Never do you gentlemen who tell us a lot of things, and I know there's going to be a lot more of these readings. Unfortunately, we do not belong to membership in all the working bodies, so Members of the delegation, self-named, Lipa, could not be on the said committee. As you know, there is also a vote, and here I confirm or stress: yes, but all important decisions are taken at the plenary session. And I would like to make one last point, and then I will stop talking about it, because I think it does not contribute to the development of the general debate on the risk of the macroeconomic situation. This is that we have helped the three members of Lipe to inflation, which is what colleague Sok - and I hope in jest - said, but this is about as Mr Janez Janša predicted that the basic tool of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fight inflation is to reduce the RTV subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about one of the most important topics that currently plagues the country, and I am sorry that there are only so many of us in the hall. I'd like to say something about the amendment. All of us in the National Assembly have agreed, and we will be in favour of this legislation, and we will be in favour of this legislation, which, in my opinion, is a subtle step, and I find it difficult to understand the arrogance of the ruling coalition, that this amendment is not supported, which is otherwise the right step in this direction. It is not the essence of inflation, but all that is now, how we will distribute what is modest, what we have, otherwise. If you look at the answer given me by the Minister of Finance about six, seven months ago, when we first warned you about this, you simply did not take us seriously. Today this is one of the biggest or biggest Slovenian problems. In all these adjustments to income legislation, in the fight against higher wages unions that are legitimate and justified in part of the story, I would remind him of another problem: we simply need to talk about how we will create more for these higher wages. If we create more, we can share more in this country. Today we are talking about adjustments to income legislation - I will support them because for many people there is little better than nothing, but much more will have to be done in this area. I am also sorry that, for example, we are neglecting such small things and that a certain segment of people would also be pleased that there was no room for amending the income legislation in the field of beekeeping, which was clearly, explicitly promised. It is about whether we are to certain, even small, marginal groups, attentive, credible, and if we keep our word; not if we are only interested in big topics in politics. I also support today's legislation because there is no doubt a better tiny sparrow in hand than a pigeon on the roof. The pigeon, which has now been promised for the last three years, has flown away and will not be caught until September, October, this year without a doubt. The essence of Slovenia is that we have European expenditure and Slovenian wages. I read an analytic article that ranks alongside Austria in terms of poverty. Those who are now just driving a mile, two or ten miles across the border, see that the situation on one side and on the other are very, very different, let statistics convince us of a lot of things. Earlier, it had been said that inflation, stock exchange, and this matter did not work for those with the lowest layers, and how it worked! I am the mayor of the municipality, where many people have been saving at the bank all year to buy school supplies in the autumn and so on. And these people who save interest rates in banks there somewhere between 3.5 and 4.5 - which is less or more such stories are unrealistic - these people with inflation, which for last year is 5.6 to 5.7, and the finance for the previous week predicts that it will now be 7% year-on-year, this country is literally taking it out of my pocket to not use any other term, at least 2.3%. And these things need to be rectified. Then one of my colleagues also talked about the state budget surplus, how good we are. It's a bad country that takes over the congregations. You have already read about the case of the Municipality of Tržič and you will, not only in Slovenian newspapers, but also in international newspapers. That this country, which has a record economic growth where honey and milk are being drained, has now taken 264,000 euros for the 1999 tax error and that the capital of 100,000 euros has been recalculated - today is only EUR 164 000 interest and we are struggling with how we will provide funds for kindergartens, schools and social transfers. And that in a month and a half, when we made this obvious mistake to replace the building land for which we paid the commission to do it for us, at the time it was 3% to pay interest now. We talked about obituary interest, and we passed an appropriate law, where interest is not allowed to exceed so much and so much capital. But for a country that has a surplus, that doesn't apply. If the state does not yet know where the money is - agricultural subsidies must also be paid, decisions must be made to prepare for the spring seed outside the door. And then, because it's obviously a problem where this surplus on the country's revenue spend, then I'll just send you to the hilly parts of Slovenia and go back to the watercourses. This morning at 7:00 a.m., when it was still dark, we were already looking around. Only the municipality I come from has almost 4 million euros in damage in the last storm - only on the waters. We put about 200,000 euros back in the water and the country doesn't know where to put the money! The legislation that we are adopting is that the country has surpluses and the congregations are sinking more and more. We are one where we hope to say and show the matter, while others are transferred to different companies, to public, private partnerships and more. The legislation that we are adopting, which we are now talking about, how we are going to lower prices in kindergartens. Listen, what the state should give and take over the story of kindergarten funding in its entirety, we will now move on to the congregations and nothing else. These stories from everyday life are still countless. The fact is that EUR 470, which is the threshold for poverty, is simply the sum that cannot be lived with. Revenues that must come from sound foundations and work as a basis should be increased. There's nothing else that can save us. Simply, more and more will have to be done and we need to focus on it. And what my fellow Member, Mr Janc, has been talking about: no doubt, social transfers - from day to day I am getting to know them more and for some there is also a shortage because we do not hope to get deeper into social transfers. Some suffer because we pay those who play this system and have too much. I spoke to a young woman who received almost €600 from the basic three social transfers: €350 of social assistance, €181 document for the child, free kindergarten by the municipality, and the person does not have a single month of work and is not actively looking for a job. When I offered her a free volunteer job to start with, she said, "Listen to the mayor, and I'm not interested in the job, I'm interested in the benefits and other things." And for someone with multiple benefits, they blame their backs in factories like Pekko, Kableks, Mura and elsewhere. A worker who does not earn 600 euros pays social transfers for those who do not give us real data on kindergarten data for rents, for antique subsidies. But we have no political courage to take offense at them. It is simply necessary to say bob beans and to those who exploit this system, who have free kindergartens and drive children with luxury cars to kindergarten, to tell them what and how. And we could talk about it, and maybe there'll be an opportunity. Thank you very much. I support legislation, although it is my opinion that the right step is in the right direction, but unfortunately it is petty.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u49	Although, Mr. Saiovic, I don't know which law you were talking about. Mr. Friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This amendment is good and has immediate effect. And if, in fact, the government is serious about doing something, then let these two words replace or put the validity of this law a year ago, and this charity, not even an addition, go into the right hands. I can't say it any other way than charity. Who lies to whom today and who deceives whom, who corrupts the sanctity, would not talk about it, but it seems to me a little distasteful that some who to this day did not care about social welfare in this country have such sweet words. And I'm not going to name anyone because that only creates new replicas. Look, I already addressed the President of the National Assembly, who is sitting here today and in December, and also in January, to the President of the State, an initiative to convene an extraordinary meeting, and I didn't even get an answer for poverty. All these laws that we have before us today are just a calming of the situation before the disaster. A disaster that would be inevitable; a disaster such that in fact there would be every minister and also us messengers of shame. The law of the street would have happened. And that's what's going to happen because you won't be able to deal with these "flickers" so many wounds you've caused in three years. You haven't given anything to the weak in three years. Today we have 248,000 people who have nothing to live with from two million people. This is one quarter if we look at the employment of people in Slovenia. It's a great grief, you know. And we are not at all a social state, as stated in Article 2 of the Constitution, that Slovenia is a legal and social state. That's not true. Otherwise, this government and this country, as well as the National Assembly of the Constitution, do not represent a serious category and value. You have adopted in the government coalition a series of unconstitutional laws, including those that have gone to the detriment of the social status of individuals. If we are talking about what we can do for these people who do not have the means to survive today, then it is self-evident that we must allow them to have coordinated wages with inflation growth, which they are not guilty of. This is also a thought expressed by the Prime Minister and would be threatened even by NATO’s connection or our membership in NATO, for now we will have to take some money from these items. Who is this battalion of armies serving in Kosovo today? Are we really such a rich country that we can buy so many armored men? We don't need everything we've got in the old iron and military well because there's really no one to put us in harm's way. There are 2 million of us. We prefer to pay what we already pay and overpay and, as military experts have already determined, we do not need a professional army if we have basically resigned from voluntary service or compulsory service. There's money here, and we're not rich enough to live with as big a leg as we live. This also shows debt. We're in charge of a few generations behind us. We are in charge of more than we were in charge of Yugoslavia, three times more. What are we going to do to prevent food from being irritated so that we can actually keep the promise we made to citizens and citizens at the time of the introduction of the euro? Here, in this National Assembly, we have heard great words that food will not be irritated - despite the introduction of the euro. That's what the government promised. And today we have enormous irritations that are incomprehensible to those who receive 300, 400 euros. I have also called on this National Assembly to say happy Easter and blessed, I don't know what holidays to think about how some of the 300 euros they have here can survive. I am talking about administrative cadres and cleaners with such salaries are not the only ones in Slovenia. There are a lot of these people, who also receive 100 euros in pensions, I am talking about widows and farmers' pensions. No one's talked about these today. We could still talk about the next law, which will be next in line - again, the situation of the already rejected law proposed by DeSUS. And all we will accept from now on is that there will be great progress for the government if it achieves a calm union. But I seriously doubt that this will stop. I was predicting, too, the Prime Minister warned that when the worker was so dissatisfied that he would be left with only the street, this wave would not be able to stop. I was alone on the first wave, and I'll be on the second one, and I'll be on the third if necessary. And when you talk about increasing your salaries in the third marriage, do a little math on how much these salaries are going to go up, some just for 5 euros. Once again we go after that percentage calculation - big, small almost nothing. After all, the basket of living expenses is the same for all, you know. And when we go shopping, prices are not different for me, and they are not different or lower for someone who doesn't even get bills. In the end, we all have to pay the same bill for a basket of living expenses. You don't know that, many of you. Otherwise, the hungry one sees enough, but he is rarely hungry. And until we allow in Slovenia, as I have said many times before, that the hungry will become satisfied, we will not be a social state. And it is sad that the government supported by the unions - the unions supported this government - today does not advocate socialism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. All present and those accompanying this session are well-welcome! After this Income Act, or following these proposed amendments, the state will not collect around €6,800 per year of income for those with income of around €320 and for those with income of up to €9,000. It is 38 million euros per annum or a good 9 billion former tolars to be paid by those people who have such low incomes and who pay taxes or income. This will help to mitigate the effects of preciousness, the encouragement you feel the most. Some of you are saying, especially from the opposition, that this is a pre-election promise in an election year. Also, 2004 was the electoral year, and at that time all of you who are saying this today and who have been in Parliament have supported the so-called Marble Income Act, which has taxed the workers, businesses, farmers extremely, and which has already undergone a change in this mandate for the better. There is another change today, and there is likely to be another change in agriculture. And if you're talking about an election year, I think it's part of inflation as well. How else would we explain such high intimacies in our trades, while we know that precious goods have also gone to the European Union, but not to such a large extent - in terms of raw materials? Obviously, we no longer have traders like the former husband of a former large company who said that the President of that time could be grateful because traders were artificially pushing prices down. Obviously, we no longer have such merchants who would favor the government, not the government, buyers, consumers and obviously raise prices in the sky, indefinitely, because they think they are still convinced that there is still so much purchasing power in us. And if you're saying it's an electoral law, which is also an amendment you're proposing in SD, it's an electoral law. I'm going to uphold the law myself, or change the law, but not the amendments. As we say, the law is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, there was a few words about who and how he argued and voted in relation to this amendment on the working body. And on the Committee on Finance, it was true that no one, such as the opposition, had voted for it, because there was no one of the opposition. And I didn't, but it was me who discovered on my mother's working body how lonely those who were still wondering whether it would be worth supporting this amendment. This is because I was really thinking at the time whether to support the amendment or not, and this complete absence of applicants made it easier to decide on this amendment. It may also make it easier to understand, for this reason, the one of the more visible opposition Members who made a statement regarding the amendment - so we could read roughly in the newspaper - that the amendment is not really good, but that it will sell well on the Demagogos market and that it shows support. I myself have some serious questions about this. For the first time, I am interested in how such amendments can be accepted by acting backwards. Would it not be some sort of calculation of what some consider to be lost? If so, if it were to be calculated, then there should be a number of other charges, not just one such transfer, because these transfers, which are frozen, as some have found, are almost 50. And I don't see the real reason why we'd look at one, two or three "points" like that, but we'd kind of ignore the rest. And if we went a little further back into history, promises of this kind of calculation could even now be reverberated, recollected, but that probably doesn't make sense. We doubt whether this amendment is properly conceived, especially because it does not concern all those transfers that have been frozen and which would have been necessary, under the terms of reference, to "account" and because we think that, in return, all mistakes and weaknesses cannot be remedied, and because it is probably right that when we talk about our proposal for a law, we should consider not taking into account the Act on the freezing of transfers, how to proceed so that we do not repeat such injustices.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, the representative of the Government! We can say to the introductions that I am very pleased to note that there is one support for this law and that this law will be adopted by consensus today or tomorrow. It is true that this is not a system law that systematically renews income legislation, but it is, in my opinion, a quick and effective measure by the Government or the coalition to try to remedy the negative effects of inflation on the income side. Today there is much talk about inflation, and mainly by the opposition there is talk and evidence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the only culprit for inflation. It is true that in Slovenia we have witnessed an enormous increase in the price of living needs or, as we say, inflation in recent months. Higher inflation has, in our opinion, been mainly contributed by higher food and fuel prices, as well as by the profession. The rise in the prices of basic living needs has had the most negative impact on the income situation of people with lower incomes and it is right to pay particular attention to these. It is not people's fault if they are employed in companies hit by globalisation and have failed to restructure in recent years, people are not guilty if they have worked in previously poorly paid jobs and today have low pensions, and the measures that we are considering in this extraordinary session in the context of the amendments to the proposed laws are measures that go against the most vulnerable segments of the population. The amendment proposed by colleagues in social democracy is not, in my opinion, acceptable. If I read the explanation, I could conclude that the applicants are being sued at a uniform tax rate. However, as has been said by the proposers, the main issue is that Article 8 is open and that a debate on lots can be held. Above all, we will hear very few useful debates today and even tomorrow about how to actually curb inflation so that we do not go into a terriblely dangerous inflation spiral. If this amendment of the law should apply for 2007 as well, it should only be corrected and it should be noted that inflation did not start on 1.1.2007 and that there was no inflation in the first quarter of 2007. However, if we are talking about income legislation, then there is only something to say about why this coalition went to drastically amend what is known as the Maramor or poor income legislation. With a view to achieving the objectives set by the Coalition, an average reduction of 8.8% in the taxation of income of natural persons with income from 2007 has been established, through an increase in the untaxed share of income and through a reduction in the progressiveity of taxation of active income. Let me remind you that there has been a significant increase in the overall relief from EUR 2522 to EUR 2800. We are also increasing these reliefs with this innovation for the lowest classes. And the highest rate of income fell from 50% to 41%. According to estimates by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia - we know that we will soon receive an informational calculation of income for 2007 - will be liable to income for 2007 about 150 000 less than in 2006. I think that this information tells citizens and citizens something and that it is not possible to believe everything that Mr. Cwickl has prophetically predicted raising VAT for 2008, and this has not happened to him, unfortunately, when he does not do well here for this payphone and in the evening, October 12th, I quote, among other things, only one segment: "Everybody creates a deficit of EUR 5,000 or a total of EUR 1.1 billion." If I share 1.1 billion euros with 2 million, as much as I think we are Slovenians, it's 500 and not 5,000. And this data appears in print media, appears for this pay phone, in front of cameras and anywhere. So someone can afford to lie to citizens and citizens about factor 10. This is unacceptable, and once it has to be done, it has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! This amendment, which has been tabled by the Social Democrats, I will not support myself, because the adoption of such an amendment does not follow the basic objective that this amendment will also bring, namely, to help the people who need it most. These are people with the lowest income. In the media, in the public, after many debates, even in Parliament, the question is many times raised about how our pensioners, those with some 100 euros in pensions, should survive, those with 300 or 400 euros in salaries. I am also of the opinion that it is difficult or even impossible, all of which require a lot of ingenuity and effort to survive the month or come from the first to the last of the month. But what is interesting is that no one asks the question and tells us that all these pensioners, all these employees, have practically retired with very low pensions. And here, in fact, we also need to look, where are the reasons why all these people could have had such low pensions for their honest work in the past. Here are a number of systemic errors, including probably irregularities, including lumbarisms over the past years, decades, and the result is that these people are now with such low pensions and many also with salaries. Just as none in the opposition, nor in the debates, does it say that all these people would have made it even more difficult to live or have these pensions, even lower wages if this government did not pay much attention to this particular area and, with many amendments to the law, have already contributed to the increase in pensions and salaries as well as otherwise. Right at the time of this government's appearance, we know that at the time we passed a law that was passed to our pensioners, who were taken by the previous Government with the amendment of the law by at least one or two pensions - that we passed a law that aligned pensions with wage increases. It is simple and misleading to say on average that there is a need to increase pensions, that those with the lowest wages have to increase salaries. Every housewife knows that if you want to share something, create something first, or if you want to put something in a pot, you should also have something to put in a pot. Similarly, at the time of this mandate, the Government was aware that the economic condition or revenues generated by the economy should be increased and given special attention by amending a number of laws. We have changed the law, where we have reduced the tax on wages, the purpose or purpose is to eliminate it completely. In the past changes in income legislation, we have also reduced or given such incentives that they are, or that we have paid less. Then we also have a number of measures that have contributed to a better economy, more employment and, of course, less tax. And as a result of all these measures, today we have a truly high economic growth in Slovenia, companies in good condition, a low level of unemployment that we have not yet had, and today we have a real opportunity to start sharing or spending more money to those who are obviously most in need of this assistance. At the time of the euro takeover, virtually everyone has announced, many experts, that there is a great danger that we will have increased inflation. No one's ever covered their eyes before. The fact is that this has also happened for external reasons, influences. This has been greatly helped by the mere trade or unjustifiable increase in prices in stores. And as a result, we have a slightly higher inflation than we predicted in Europe. But we know that Europe, including the most developed countries, for example Germany, faces inflation that they do not remember, and there are also reasons such as ours - external influences, but that trade there does not do what they did to us. And I am sure that in Slovenia too, the time will come when our consumers, and relatively in a short time, actually let our traders know that it will be necessary to act differently and not to deceive or raise prices unjustifiably, which has happened many times. Today we have inflation that can be worrying about further economic growth and all that, but it is still three or four times smaller than we had years ago. At the time, however, these things were not as controversial as they are today. On the part of the opposition, it is often obvious, especially to the government, that it has done nothing to control inflation. At the same time, however, there is no reason or fact to say what the government has not done. And in the debates, many macro-economicists, including the political options of the Social Democrats or the opposition, actually recognise that in the field of inflation, the government has not been able to do more than the Government has actually done. There are a number of circumstances here that have contributed to the fact that inflation is greater than it would have been justified. The government is aware of this and does not want inflation to increase or increase these inflationary pressures than it already is today, and to help those people who are actually in a position now that they also need to be assisted by various measures. Here it is not possible to solve a matter in general with just one measure, as this amendment, for example, should try. But this amendment doesn't actually bring it. Here we need to look in a number of areas and in the parliamentary procedure we already have a number of laws that will now try to mitigate these inflation impacts and to minimize or eliminate them. There is a law in the procedure on the subsidisation of student diet, which means that it will also be possible here that these people will give less money for their children. Then we will have, as we know, a law that will again allow people to receive these good economic results, then free kindergartens, and also this law that we have today in the field of income, will contribute to the destruction of these inflations or these impoverishments. I am of the opinion that these are the right ways, the right ways and that if all these laws are adopted successfully, it will be these people who will receive a number of additional benefits, which will also help them to cope with the problems that we have today. At the end of the day, I would like to comment only on the fact that it is quite interesting and misleading that a fellow Member, who has been an active policy maker in the past, has led to many of the problems facing these people today, that in fact he was the creator of the wrong tax policies, and today he is playing an active advocate of socialism, while living Christmas holidays abroad, in Sarajevo, in very expensive hotels, and in fact showing solidarity to those who are the weakest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this last debate and this last installment, which was, is symptomatic of the coalition, especially for the largest client, when she lacks sound arguments and when she does not know and can no longer say, then, of course, get on the bottomless and primitive arguments. But that's for another time when there might be another debate. I a priori reject the argument that many experts today, who identify the causes of inflation in our country, have repeated, as if they had a chip embedded in their head, that a set of different circumstances, abroad and with us, has led to this inflation or to this mini spiral. I must tell you that to people who are at an existential minimum or who have existential problems, this argument has absolutely nothing to do with it. That is why, of course, I agree with one of the debaters at the outset, who said that the country is not broken. Not as long as the state talks about surplus and other matters, it's not broken. But a lot of people are broken, and a lot of people are broken. Three or four months ago, I read, heard and listened from the government circles, from the minister's mouths, to live with us in a golden age. And now let us see what this golden age is like in a specific everyday life. This means that a citizen of Slovenia who works 8 hours a day gets 20 or less euros for this day, which is 400 or less euros per month. Is that a golden age for you? Is this for you the salvation of people who find themselves in existential difficulties? Is this due to the good macroeconomic results that these people are reaping? I'm not talking about people where some of you use arguments that in the past they had bad salaries and that they have bad pensions today. Here, in the case of transfers and others around the freeze, just a few things: a 24-month freeze of coordination means that the same country, which is not broken, stole it from these people. She stole them for 24 months to find themselves in the situation they're in today. So I'm going to repeat what I've done several times, especially in the discussion when we talked about the lowest wage in this National Assembly when we talked about social transfers - I'm not going to agree and I'm never going to agree to some kind of Draganj allowance that the country shares with people when it comes to some kind of mercy policy, first of all, so of course you're not broken, so you're going to have a sufficit to give people a drop back. Yeah, who is this country? Who are the people who run this country? Are these the Messiahs? Whether this same money or this same capital was earned by the same people that I'm talking about doing 8 hours or more a fair day, and I think they deserve a fair pay for it. And in the end, if we really wanted to help people with low incomes, then we would discuss raising the lowest wage, then we would discuss the guaranteed salary. Once again, the lowest wage and the guaranteed salary, and then you don't have to throw sand in your eyes and talk about income relief. Otherwise, I don't know the numbers, but I imagine, 6,000, 7, 8, 9,000 euros, as those revenues have, listen, they already have this included in the current income relief and it's totally no use to them. This income relief does not benefit my children, who are now solving their housing problem, and so on. All the things you've deprived these people of when you've adopted and in this National Assembly you've adopted new tax legislation that you're so sworn to, that it's brought people so much. Fig! She didn't bring it! And today we have a chance and a chance to see - I won't talk about numbers because many times my colleague Friend repeats this - there are a lot of people who have really found themselves on some social, existential edge. And for me, it's not the solution to my vacations, it's the solution for me to give them a fair pay for their honest work.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I do not think it is wrong if such a debate is, however, to confirm our introductory party presentation when we find that we will all be in 2008 when the election year is, for this proposal for a law amending the law and supplementing the law on income. Once again, we have heard even economic expertise today, at least 40% of which did not concern this law. I'll stick to this marriage. As far as I know, we're talking about an amendment to this law. Everything was told about the marriage. In 2006, ladies and gentlemen - I say again, even with all the wrong policy from the very beginning, which one or the other authority - today is not the time for obviouss, today is the time for solutions - one and the other has made; mistakes have been and will be mistakes. Today is "God's thirst." This is a proposal for a law that is in 2008, because it is an electoral year. And that's it. And that's what I said, that all of us who are full of words today will be united, and we will all support it. And now we are reading and doing studies - inflation with this law has nothing but a higher or lower tax rate, inflation depends then on other economic influences, but you probably know that already, ladies and gentlemen, if you have read this law. Today we are talking about the amendment or the law and the amendment. This amendment proves good faith. See the projected €38 million, as long as this law is adopted for 2008: "the public financial revenues of the 2008 budget will be reduced by around €38 million." And then it says how we're going to destroy them - by reducing the budget; 38 million euros compared to 16 billion euros - calculate what that is! Now, if we have an amendment here that proposes and shows the good will to really help people in this social crisis, and if it is the same amount, that means a total of 76 million euros compared to what I have, 16 billion euros in the budget. If we all have the will together and if we confirm this law, let's confirm this amendment and help people. No one says that you are colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members and that this Government is absolutely to blame for this situation and that it is to blame for all inflation and that it is to blame for not knowing what! Let's go! You know, I have a lot of people in my life who come with problems. Don't come with problems, let's come with solutions, let's help people! At this point, we see that this is the situation, and if we go, I support this amendment, and the Slovenian National Party will also support this amendment - we solve the problem two years ago, destroy what has been wrongly done, and here we must all be united, in 2006. Two things we did wrong in 2006: first, 2%, which I already talked about, which we deleted, which is 2% reliefs, and second, when we erased the benefits of housing. These are mistakes, let's face it! He who works sins, he who does nothing can make no mistakes. It's for the good of this government, but admit the mistakes, that was wrong! And now we have to fix this. We don't have to fix this because of 2008 and the electoral year, and now we say we're going to change a little law now, we're going to lower the tax rate a little bit and everything's going to be fine. No, it's not! It's not! This amendment demonstrates good will and proves the truth, the truth for correcting the error that occurred in 2006. This error, which may have occurred in 2006, could have been due to the error of the former government, which was a completely different policy option. I don't look politically here, I'm looking at people who can't survive anymore, and let's not be social ministers here right now. Why doesn't this government squeeze the merchants? The merchants are laughing nicely, and they won't let go of 1% of the margin. And since this economy, even here all recognition by the Government, so well, economic growth is so great, the purchasing power is greater and the demand is greater than the supply if we go now from 1990 to 1990 to the market law. As demand is greater than supply, prices are rising and this is inflation, and not talking to the euro, but I don't know what, it's inflation. And who stepped on the fingers of the merchants? Nobody. We want to give them everything that is national and sell them to serve them well. There's a mistake here, and don't talk about the wonders of God now. And the only tax policy is the one - fiscal, tax, I use the Slovenian term - that can solve today's problem. This is a great proposal, let us show good will, let us acknowledge for two years what this law foresees for 2008, of course it will be somewhere in the state budget if it amounts to 76 million for two years less, but what is this, once again, to 16 billion. Colleagues and colleagues, if we are all open and we will all support this Proposal for a Law amending the Income Act, if we are all so social, let us also be social to this amendment and admit mistakes and take them into account. [[..]] [[End of discussion.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. In view of the discussions, I would like to provide some clarifications on the law and also a little wider on the measures related to inflation. And one of the measures to prevent the bad effects of inflation is this law. I am talking only about one of the laws that the Government is preparing or about one of the measures that the Government has actually adopted, adopted and will adopt. Here I would like to say that in the second half of 2007, when inflation started or when prices began to rise more than in the previous months, the Government immediately approached that this would not continue and, as one of the first measures, it was to reduce excise duty on oil derivatives to the minimum allowed by the European Commission. It is also in 2007 and is continuing in 2008 with a policy of extremely restrictive prices, prices for which the Government has the power to manage them. Here we can talk about utilities or prices of utilities. The next step we have to say is to review contracts between different operators on the market where it is determined whether or not it is an agreement between individual tenderers and whether it is a breach of the rules imposed by competition. This measure is one of the measures linked to social measures. Many of the laws you will discuss and decide today and tomorrow are on the agenda, and I have already said from the outset - tax laws already limit the nature of the laws. There are restrictions, therefore, on the measures the Government wants to mitigate the consequences of excessive rises in the prices of vital goods from the social sphere. So here is that area based on transfers, one of the most important areas. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that this law enter into force as of 2008, in order to represent fiscal and, of course, neutral policies in general, meaning that such a measure will not have an impact on price increases because they will reduce expenditure. Any measures that would have done this backwards would have an impact on price increases and this would have an additional impetus to price increases and inflation, which is why the Government does not support the proposed amendment that this is also true in return. In short, this law will act in a neutral way on the macroeconomic situation in the country and therefore there will be no further inflationary developments. Here again: this is not the first measure, as was actually said, this is one of the measures and I think that if inflation is not needed, if inflation does not calm down - but I think that - that the Government will take other measures, including those mentioned here, regarding the raising of the minimum wage, with regard to the various subsidies received by people, and so on. Secondly, what I would like to stress about tax legislation in its entirety, which was adopted in 2006 and which continues in some way. The government has decided to reduce taxes both in the enterprise sector and in the area of taxation of natural persons. In fact, one of the reasons for the economic situation, where economic growth is high, is also a reduction in taxes, and in this context the Government here intends to continue with this policy, which of course means that the economy should remain as much as possible, since it is possible that this money will also be earmarked for wages and, on the other hand, that the population will also be left with as much reduction as possible. Here, of course, we look primarily at the weakest group of people when we look at their material position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u65	Thank you. Since there is still interest after the debate, I am opening a recommission. We are talking about Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Mikolitch, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u66	Thank you for your word and welcome. I must say that I did not intend to discuss the law first because I support it. However, with regard to the amendment, I have to say quite frankly that it is not easy to discuss this amendment, especially from a negative point of view, because, as has already been said before, the amendment is really simple and particularly attractive. And see if the Government makes a contribution by this measure to those who urgently need certain financial support, EUR 38 million, and then the Social Democrats propose an amendment, not EUR 38 million, but twice as many - you know, then there is quite a difficult debate here in the National Assembly on this amendment. But I am firmly convinced that the Government has drawn up this proposal within the framework of its financial capacity, as the Secretary of State has said, and with regard to the possibility of other consequences, as the Secretary of State mentioned before me. And then certainly the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats, which speaks about whether it would be the same for 2007 but I can also ask myself whether this is even true in the future or if you have already proposed something, why not then you have proposed that what the Government has proposed - is said to be the €6,800 limit and €9,000 limit - additionally facilitates €2,000 and then €1,000 at the upper limit - to increase it twice. Exactly the same or I do not know if it is purely linear, but no one has made an effort to get deeper into this income mathematics, but I firmly believe that it is not good to take back certain things as well. We also need to know that all those who are being Tangled will not return any income for 2007 to the state budget, if I may say so, given that the income adjustment over the year, especially for these, is somehow in the same amount as the annual dose. And this is very important to me, and it is said that this measure, which the Government has prepared, will provide you with some more than 300 euros over the year. At the same time, we have also prepared other measures, other laws that we will also adopt today, and we are also spending €38 million on increasing the child allowance, plus additional financial resources to increase the protective allowance and other measures. Thus, we must be honest and say this, that this is a measure which means certain financial resources from the 2008 state budget, and it is right to help all those who have fallen into difficulties due to inflation, and we are also devoting these financial resources to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if it's a full moon today, I haven't checked, but even today, as in this National Assembly several times, we're listening to some debates that are very repeating a number of stories that have been appearing for quite some time in the Slovenian media area and talking about inflation, and we're talking a lot about it and we're talking about inflation. Today I have read an interesting article by a renowned economist, a university professor, who in his comment on very specific cases has shown that the actual situation is quite different, as shown in the above-mentioned comments, in many stories that appear and repeat themselves in today's debates by opposition Members. Among other things, this famous economist wrote: "Inflation will calm down faster if the demagogues and imbeciles do not inspire inflationary expectations with their foolish stories." Today, these foolish stories, which some MEPs have parrotly repeated, continue intensively. At the same time, I am only interested in which category these debaters fall into either the category of imbeciles or the category of demogogues. It would be very difficult for you to answer this question yourself, or it would be hard for you to judge where they belong to create your own opinion on it. I would only add that because of this, and not only because of this, but also because of all that has been said by the representatives of the Government and the coalition Members, I cannot support and reject the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. With every speaker who appeared here on the stage, I am more confident that this amendment has actually been tabled solely for the purpose of populism. Indeed, it is clear that the amendment proposal is not systematic, and we have also heard that from the mermaids. This is said, if it is not systemic, I would expect the applicants to table an amendment in the sense that there has already been a speech here that each of the groups at risk has the same share. After all, we have heard today that we all have the same stomachs. And after this system, I would expect a proposal that would simply compensate everyone with income of up to 9,000 euros in some amount, and that would be the same for everyone. This proposal, however, gives us the income paid from the previous year to 2008, and I ask the applicants what we will do in 2009, when these groups will almost not pay any income. What are we gonna do then? And I have to say clearly and loudly once again that I am disappointed that such solutions, which are known in advance, are not systemic and simply cause fruitless debates here, are being proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I don't know, all of my predecessors I've listened to - I have to say, I don't know if they're aware of who we're talking about today and who we're taking these things for. It's about people who don't have anything to eat anymore. I heard the story was overblown. Tell me if the system allows people who have 300 euros of monthly income to survive! Because if it doesn't, if this system doesn't hold, the system has to be replaced. And don't cheat! In Styria or northeast Slovenia, we have a very nice saying: "With full ass it is easy to go to the toilet." And we're doing it here today, ladies and gentlemen. That no one will say we're going to the opposition to demagogy. Here I have a calculation of what income means to people, the majority of people in this country and the largest percentage of people in this country who belong to the EUR 6800 income segment and have two children. You know what that means to them? Nothing! Zero. You're not giving them anything. And someone said, "How glad I am that this law will be adopted unanimously today." Yes, of course, because the fire in this country is already such that each drop represents a partial relief. And don't make excuses for traders, manufacturers, and I don't know who else! This government is to blame that the system is as it is! This government is to blame that the system needs to be replaced and that people have nothing more to live on and what to "keep secret" from! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I think that the bill should be supported, and I will not support the amendment. Today, I myself read an interesting article by Dr. Mrkaić, who put some things in the right place or poured some clean water or pure wine. Indeed, we are always forgetting the effects of globalisation, which has also affected our neighbouring countries, which are struggling with the same or similar problems. I would like to draw attention to the extremely high rises in oil prices, which are then reflected in all other segments. Fast-growing economies have an ever-increasing need for food, raw materials and energy. I may also warn you that in the last year, corn has been irritable by 120% and wheat by 80%. And in such circumstances it is difficult to expect cheaper meat, cheaper eggs, even cheaper polenta from this expensive corn. There is certainly a need to act in those areas where it can be done. In fact, to these globalisation effects they have abnormally highly attached their pots to us too, I will say, cartelly agreed large merchants, but this is only part of the problem. Of course, when a problem arises, it has to be solved. The government has put in place a series of measures, but these measures may raise questions as to where the border is. Someone's gonna get it, someone who earns 1 euro a month more, but they're gonna have to earn it. So, here's the thing again. But the government has taken this measure in the area of income, and with some others, which we will also deal with today, it has approached to solve these problems and has shown a sense of obedience to developments in our space. In this area of action, there are certainly employers who, in dialogue with the social partners, can start with the development of our economy, with the optimization of production, with less energy consumption, with more efficient work processes, can also contribute to greater added value, and after this division segment will also drip into employees' pockets. I wonder what kind of employer he is holding his employees on this social minimum, or what kind of relationship he has with the industry, or what he intends to do to get himself, his company, his employees out of this bottom. Now for the amendment. Isn't the amendment somehow in contradiction with the president of the Social Democrats, who said a bad month ago in a television interview that it was necessary to tighten the belt? It is with the amendment that we have to deal with the opposite phenomenon. The tightening of the belt is certainly out of the question. And someone who talks about belt tightening just brought rhetoric from a very long time ago that I hope it won't happen again or that we've forgotten it. So, in addition to the proposed law, we have in reserve or have a Slovenian company in reserve to add something else to their competitiveness, to greater added value, to more expensive products, in line with the Lisbon strategy, in line with the desire for equitable development, and this is essentially the goal of all 27 countries of the European Union, and this is also the case with Slovenia. And if we add more added value, it's easier to add this added value to all segments of society. But I would end my debate with a Chinese proverb saying, "Don't give a man a fish, but teach a man how to catch a fish." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I mentioned earlier that this law in the entire package of laws kind of put out the fire that started, but it doesn't prevent the reason why it happened. I would like the government to start with measures to prevent the disease, not to treat it now. Therefore, measures that would in the long term instill inflation, but not to deal with the consequences of inflation. However, if we now touch on this amendment, which we are talking about, I am also referring my debate to our previous thinking when, as well as other colleagues, we have found that inflation is unlikely to be so quick to plague, as some of the impressions are already announced - meat irritations. And again, those who will be most affected by the segment that will be most affected by those with the lowest income. At that time, I thought that it would probably take more similar fire-fighting actions to take further action to mitigate the effects of increased inflation. And this amendment is one of these, so that it does not simply reject it on the nose, but it pays to think about it and to see whether by adopting this amendment we may not prevent the need, we will not solve this problem in advance, so that we will later have to take further action, further such fire moves to prevent the effects of increased inflation. That is why I am also supporting the law, and I will also support this amendment in the belief that, in this way, we will at least take some time away from the need for additional later measures, how to mitigate the consequences of inflation, which, unfortunately, I do not expect to be so quickly plagued. Nor is it because of this, because the government's expected measures aimed at long-term economic stabilisation are not yet visible. I support this package in the law, including this amendment, because in this way we will really put the fire out or put it out, but I want this extinguishing to be as successful as possible, on the one hand, and with as little damage as possible, with as few new pressures and levers as possible for even greater inflation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'm still opening a loop application. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The inflation we are starting today is certainly a worrying phenomenon for the country and the worst burden for those in a socially difficult situation. On the contrary, the government has come with measures that have a social note and that the multitude of those affected by inflation, that is, enormous growth in food and other prices, has been the most affected. Of course, it is necessary to welcome such action by the Government, which - I think - has responded to the development of these inflation processes. But there's something else that's bothering you. It bothers that inflation is obviously a political project on the left. I note that today's debate is not primarily about how to deal with inflation in this country, how to help the socially weak, but how to make political use of these phenomena. Of course, then it turns into a beautiful dress, turns into a cellophane, and in fact, it is a very quiet and transparent populism speech by opposition parties. In doing so, I must say that it surprises me, too, that when this issue was discussed on the Committee, there was no opposition - the opposition, which was then a position when the Rules of Procedure were adopted and said that the Committee was a key place for substantive discussions. So the opposition today considers that this is not a substantive matter, that it is not an important matter, so you care little about the difficulties of those who have problems due to inflation. Today, of course, you attach your pot when you sell it on television. In fact, I'm not surprised that you're acting this way, because where is the biggest inflation - if we're just looking at the general use of that term in this country. The biggest inflation is in the area of the formation of opposition parties. Half a year ago we had three opposition parties, today we have five opposition parties plus a single MP, it is said that out of three pieces there were six pieces and indeed, the opposition is extremely strong. Calculate the percentages of this customer inflation. And, of course, in the electoral year, inflationary talk is also produced on this basis. I agree with one of the predecessors that this is also a great cost for the country, such behaviour of the opposition, because costs are increasing and it is also putting pressure on those socially weaker. I think it would be time for you to work things out at your own doorstep. At the same time, I am surprised by this amendment, which is just such a populism nature, that it was written, apparently, by an MP who, on the basis of the inflationary breakdown of the parties and the multiplication of these parties, has crossed over to another party, although he is a signed leader of the parliamentary group. However, this is a Member who has recently presented himself as an expert on financial matters. Now, however, the President of this party has confirmed that Mr Squeakl and Mr Rope no longer apply, that you are no longer credible in this area, since he has joined Mr Gaspari. Because they no longer have credibility in this area. And now it will be necessary to agree here again, or you will have to agree on who represents what within your forces, but the external symbol itself is that the fiscal policy, the tax area that you can organise within the parliamentary group, is no longer the answer to Pahor. While I am glad that the party has given the two Members the same confidence, you have to respect this in some way and not bring such papers here. But of course, I also look at this by giving such amendments to a party that has technology for three-digit inflation in its history, over 1000%. And give it to you based on this technology, this knowledge - look at yourself, think about it! And then make suggestions that are actually better than the government, and I have not heard anything better today than the government, and that is why I will not support it, but I will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I think we're still on the amendment to Article 8. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, after this party's expertise by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I intend to discuss the amendment to Article 8, which was often followed by at least two words: likeness and systemicity. Well, as far as the likeness is concerned, it does not appear that this amendment would be pleasing to those who could bring it to life with their support. Now, what matters is systemicity, but it's a little more complicated nature. In 2007, the government denied inflation as a serious problem for a long time, then ignored it, then raised its hands to solve the problem and said there was nothing it could do. When the Governor of Banka Slovenije said that the government had a chance to do something, the government only somehow started dealing with these things and then called on all the social partners to help solve the situation. Well, then things started to happen. And now we have before us, as you say, a package of laws. I link the package to something good, and we have all said in our discussions so far that we do see the well-intention or good effects of these laws for those most vulnerable to inflation in this society. But here now comes the problem of systemic solutions. The legal proposal that we have before us is not systemic, nor is it systemic in relation to the linear increase in child allowances, as is not the system law concerning the protective supplement. And those who read precisely the Government's arguments to individual laws should already know, because the goals set by the Government in some other laws - the government is talking about the comparability of transfers, about approximately equal stimulation through different transfers and so on. These things are now broken by these measures, you want to admit it or you don't want to admit it, it doesn't matter. But those who think analytically about these things will be able to tell you. What is now ahead of us is only question 8 of Article 8 which says that these measures will enter into force in the 2008 income assessment. The deposit goes down the other way. But if we were to introduce and adopt our amendment, then for those who will receive their 2007 income decision, this would prove to be a beneficial effect because their money would be returned to them. And for those of us who are most at risk, we would show real willingness to help them, and perhaps we would help them with at least one finger to get into a boat in which we all sail, as the President of the country said, not to talk about any other meteorological phenomena in this country on the sunny side of the Alps. It is simply that if we see that something has to be done, because there is too many people in the area of poverty - and the threshold of poverty is shifting because poverty is accounted for by a deviation from the average wage. So if we see too many people in this area, any country that considers itself a social state will try to take measures to improve those most endangered living conditions. And after all, the government was talking about something like that when she swore to take care of everyone's well-being. Therefore, honourable coalition Members and Members, we do not acknowledge that you are proposing solutions for improvement. All we are reminding you is that we warned about these things when we were taking systemic solutions, but you didn't hear us, and at least I regret it, and it would be good if someone else did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on a security allowance, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. On behalf of a group of unrelated Members, named Lipa, I would place on the soul of Members and Members of this National Assembly, given that there is a very sensitive issue before us, which concerns a particular, truly specific circle of people in this country, which reaches as many as 500 thousand people, and someone who threatens these people with the only fear they can face in this country - and this is the High Representative of the Government, who also represents it in this house, as we see - and threatens them with a matilda that we know that in a transferred sense means death, that it is the only fear these people have, cannot adequately represent their interests or represent the positions of the Government up to a group of 500 thousand citizens in this country. Such statements are demeaning, in our opinion, and we therefore propose that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs provide someone who is not offensive to the work of the people affected by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Before this procedural proposal, I gave the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, which, as such, is still a delegated Mr Marko Štrovs, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour. You have the floor. [[The ad in the hall.]] You don't have a word, Mr. Sok. Mr. Stroves, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u84	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! You have a short but important proposal for a law on a protective supplement. If you do [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u85	Please, Mr. Stroves, just a moment. I'm asking for peace in the hall, or I'll interrupt the session. Here you go, Mr. Stroves.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u86	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! You have a short but important proposal for a law on a protective supplement. If you accept it, the benefits of pensioners with the lowest pensions will also be aligned with wage increases. Other pensioners are subject to a simple and transparent system of coordination with current wage growth almost from the beginning of this government's mandate: in November, pensions are increased by a well-known increase in salaries, together with a calculation from the beginning of the year, in February, pensioners receive a difference from the total increase in salaries in the previous calendar year and in May to the annual allowance. If the previous way of coordinating pensions had not changed in 2005, the material situation of pensioners would continue to deteriorate from year to year, as in previous years. But remember, ladies and gentlemen, how the opposition then criticised the government in 2005 for this change, that it is a counter-reform to destroy public finances in order to bring the pension institution to a loss. None of this happened. The pension system is healthy, reflecting a favourable economic situation in the country. Employment is rising, the number of insured persons has increased by almost 72,000 from 818 000 to 89,000 since December 2004, when this government took over this mandate. The material situation of pensioners is also being improved. The negative trend under the previous government's mandate has stopped. The average old-age pension was €494 three years ago, now amounts to an average pension of €696, an increase of 35%. Inflation increased by 11.4% during this period. In recent months, the positive picture has damaged the average increase in food prices. This has a greater impact on lower income household consumption, where the share of food costs is higher. The government has responded quickly and has prepared a wide range of measures to maintain the standard of living of low-income people, from increasing tax benefits, child allowances to increasing pension benefits by this bill. Following this proposal, pension security allowances will increase by 3.6% at the end of January this month, and in February they will be re-evaluated from the estimated amount of 81.6% of the lowest pension base. Then the lowest possible pension, together with a pension allowance of 35 years, will be EUR 403 per month net, and EUR 300 per month will be net for a pensioner with only 15 years of insurance. In the coming years, the guaranteed amount of the minimum pension benefits will increase for the total wage increase, without prejudice to Article 151 of the Pension Law, which reduces the second pension each year by 0.6% lower growth. This fuse will be more important for pensioners every next year as these effects of Article 151 will increase more in the coming years. Thus, even in the long run, this anchor of the lowest pension benefits will be maintained and pensioners will continue to have the same ratio to the average wage they have. We will save pensioners campaign-tested property conditions for the recognition of the right to a protective allowance. Of course, they will have to continue to report if their wealth situation changes. As the marginal amount for the dose of the protective supplement is increasing, the limit amount for the dose of pensions received by our citizens from other republics of the former SFRJ and also the subsistence allowance for farmers are now increasing. Dear Members and Members. On behalf of the Government, I propose that you adopt this law. The law is well thought out, it is designed and will have a very good impact on the improvement of the standard of low-income pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of this Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 19th emergency meeting, on 18.1., the draft law in question was addressed by the Labour, Family, Social and Disabled Committee. To the members and members of the committee, in the introduction, including in the oral summary, the proposal of the law was taken by the Secretary of State, Mr Stroves, like today, and he also talked a lot about another law at that time, not about the proposal for a hearing, but I will not repeat it. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Rule of Law examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments on Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 20, 26 and 27. In a long and controversial debate, the members and members of the Board of Representatives of the Government drew attention to the significant material deterioration in the situation of pensioners who, due to inadequate coordination of individual transfers, included a pension security allowance and a number of other transfers as additional rights under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in pension benefits. In the debate, most members considered that individual transfers, as dealt with by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, should be coordinated in the same way as before the implementation of the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia in 2006. All agreed that an alarming situation should be addressed as soon as possible and therefore expressed their support for the proposed law. After the discussion on the amendments and individual articles, the Committee adopted a series of amendments to the four groups of Members of the Kakolitija, bringing the text of the proposed law into line with the legislative opinion. The Committee did not accept the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 25, the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors to Article 4. The amendments of the four coalition groups to Articles 4, 5 and 20 have become irrelevant. The Committee has also drafted and adopted its amendments or amendments to the amendment of the four coalition groups to Article 4, the amendment to the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 20 and the amendment to Article 25. All that has been adopted on the home work body is an integral part of the complementary bill that is here before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u90	Honourable President, Honourable Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! The DeSUS Group will support the proposed law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia recognises by this law that the current law on the coordination of social transfers was a mistake that damaged the poorest layers in our country. A kind of understanding of the progress of the current government within the singing high economic growth and prosperity talks has resulted in the freezing of more than 40 different social transfers, with an excuse for uniform coordination, a rare abuse and the need to reduce public spending. Our parliamentary group of laws, which, among other things, froze the protective supplement, did not back up at that time. However, our parliamentary group has proposed a law to end such a brutal regime, especially social rights, including a protective supplement, but the coalition partners have not wanted to co-sign it, even more so, they have postponed its treatment from the December session to an unpredictable fate in the coming period. However, we support this Protection Supplement Act in order to reduce the consequences of the current law. It is not possible to correct them in this way, since the freezing of this right has been followed by high inflation and food stimulation, without the authorities so far doing anything to reduce the distress of the citizens who have been in it. In exchange for the freezing of all frozen rights, only two or three freezes are offered by the Government or the Ministry of the Interior with the laws on the protection allowance and family benefits introduced, in addition to the Income Act. Of course, in fact, the Government supports the individual solutions contained in our bill proposal, and it is commendable that it is correcting the child allowance and family benefits, which were actually the only weak point in our proposal, because if our law had already been adopted, the reconciliation of family benefits would have deteriorated because they would only get half the growth of the guaranteed salary, not as much as they will get now. Further consideration of the Act on the termination of the Act on the coordination of social transfers will no longer be given to this argument. It is not true, however, that the Government is improving the situation of beneficiaries by means of a law on the protection allowance. It only repays what was unjustifiably taken from them by the amendment of the law, without the consent of the social partners who opposed it. We support within this law's proposal the minimum increase in the price to obtain this right. We will fully support the law, although we are convinced that a further swing, with the support of our law, is necessary to address the issue of all other frozen rights, such as the rights of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, where there are 5 outstanding - sickness, disability, unemployment benefits and so on - all together for the price of less than 20 million euros and less than will weigh, for example, the Income Act. We hope that our law will receive adequate support, as it can be implemented immediately after adoption with the amendment at the time of the projected budget rebalancing and will thus resolve the issue of all frozen social transfers, not just some. However, it is better to hear in the electoral year if, for each transfer, we put a special law in place and then, before the elections, say, we praised that with ten laws we tried to save poverty, and in fact we give back only what we did and do what we did not do, but our coalition partners picked up people in 2006, when the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers was wrongly adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on a protective supplement is certainly one of those mitigating measures and, if we are talking about it, it needs to be supported, because it somehow eliminates the injustice caused by the withdrawn law, or ceases to apply, which gave individuals the right to coordinate transfers in the household. If this law were still in force, there would be fewer social problems. If we walk on a pension system or a pension scale, we can see that they are the most affected - so, if I may say, farmers and widowed pensions are the smallest, 4.4% of them, which represents a total of 14,750 beneficiaries, and they receive from 100 to 200 euros per month. Now, if we focus on this number; with 100 euros or 200 euros a month -- what can a person afford today, or if anything, if he can pay the bills, say electricity, water and those basics that we all have. Question! I say no, and if we take this into account, it's an emergency. However, for all these laws that we are enacting, I believe that it is a matter of mitigating and calming the situation that is in fact just before the disaster, and it is certainly questionable whether all these measures that we are taking today under the swift procedure will actually be sufficient to calm down the inconvenient and those on the verge of survival. If I can say again the information that the Government has advocated here, it has recognised 10% of poverty or that poverty is considered the structure of people who do not have the means to survive or live below the poverty line and if we pass it on to numbers, there are 248,000 people who do not have it. These certainly include pensioners, and that is why I say, in fact, from this city, that what we are doing today is too late, too late, because it will show time. I believe that the pensioners for inflation are not to blame. Even if we are talking about other mitigating measures, we can see that workers where they create profits are not entitled to share profits, even though they have made these profits. They are not even justified in aligning wages with inflation growth, although inflation is not at fault. So, if we really want to correct the injustices back, in some way it would make sense to do it immediately, and in the previous law we have seen that otherwise some cosmetic correction the government will do in the social field, it is not ready to do anything back, and this law should be based on the principle of reciprocity, which it has not been for three years. This reciprocity has not been demonstrated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for three years and in fact only irritates the cost of living to individuals and, of course, irritates food, even though it has promised not to be. Incomprehensible facts, when in fact we get some hansaplast on a large wound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At the outset, I must express my dissatisfaction or disappointment at the fact that today, in this Chamber, a person who is a matilda or with that statement, which has not been repeatedly turned away in the media, has disgracefully mined the dignity of the pensioners. We're talking about people, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I estimate that such a person who allows himself as a representative of a ministry, government or state to speak in such a way to anyone in our country will not say just or only 500 thousand pensioners, such a person does not deserve a place such as the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u95	Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have the floor or presentation of the views of the parliamentary group on the law and nothing else. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u96	Excuse me, this law was also the reason why Mr Secretary of State Stroves said what he said. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members from this city, I reiterate or express regret and at the same time distance from such statements of official Slovenian policy. Today there is a law before us that I will say is correcting what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed. If you remember, in 2006 we discussed the law on transfers to households and individuals in this Parliament for a long time. It was that key law that caused injustice in our country. Guilts, not only to pensioners; more than 44 are different transfers, which are paid at the most from the state budget or municipal budgets. Therefore, to say whether Janez Janša’s policy is really so social in January 2008 or the first. That's sand in your eyes. That's what someone from the coalition said today - psychological effect, demagogy and nothing else. When the Secretary of State said in the introduction today that the material situation of pensioners has improved, I will not be demagogic, but I will ask you a specific question on this statement by the Secretary of State, a specific number. I'm asking if the material situation of pensioners has really improved. 800 pensions in our country are lower than 100 euros, 18073 pensions in our country are lower than 200 euros, respected colleagues and colleagues! 26864 and 46 pensions are lower than 300 euros and 115 000 pensions are lower than 400 euros. Has the material situation of pensioners in our country really improved, I ask you? Let me ask you, if this is the standard of the Secretary of State, what can you say in an apology for such a standard to a person, but it is not just one person who has asked for help or understanding in Parliament. What can you say to an apology to a person who says, "I have 300 euros in invalidity pension. When I pay the bills, I'm left with 56 euros." Is that standard, respected colleagues and colleagues? Can we raise our heads behind these numbers? That's the wrong policy! And today, a few months before the elections to talk about how very social our country is. It's a shame! That's a shame! I read a little while ago that 40% of households in our country are going to get worse. 12% of the people in our country are already living below the poverty line, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the support of the government coalition - the vast majority of the government coalition, I apologize, DeSUS opposed this law - frozen a social adjustment called social transfers in 2007. We will support the law in the unaffiliated Members' Group of Members of the People of the Republic of Lip because, as we have heard so many times, it is only or a significant patch to the wound in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Homan has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. The distinguished representative of the Government, the fellow Member, fellow Members and everyone else, very welcome. The government has already seen the social problem before the holidays, so it has sent to Parliament a proposal for a law on social transfers and a whole bunch of proposals that we are considering today to tackle this problem of inflation. We believe that we must adopt this proposal today following an urgent procedure, as people will be able to obtain a new reconciliation of pensions in February after this improved proposal, an improved law. The government is aware of inflation and is taking important measures. There's still a whole bunch of legislation ahead of us to reduce or suppress this inflation. That the government is on track or aware of the social problems, the problems of those most socially endangered, gives us hope or result in yesterday's Hot Chair, where the government received or its president high voter support - 83%. We can say that even those who from the beginning believe that the government is doing well, we did not expect such high support. This is another success, or incentive, that the government is on the right track, that it is aware of the problems, and that it is solving them. However, with these paylines, I also call on traders who are the main creator of great inflation to renounce these enormous profits that they create, which they are voting for year after year to renounce these highly overrated malls, to these marble buildings that do not need to be so modern, super-equipped. To really do within themselves, to start cleaning up with themselves, to reduce employees, because they still have a lot of internal reserves. The "best neighbor" introduced the so-called European phenomenon in the European space called super-rebate years ago. These super rabbis are some phenomenon in the European space that was created only by us. And suppliers get up to 70% of the profits in many cases. The margins are already minimal, but then there are various rebates, super rebates, extra rebates, percentages for the development of brands of suppliers. That is to say, it can be easy for a TV salesman to show good advertising on how to sell their products if the supplier pays him throughout this period of advertising. All that's left of it is the burden of suppliers. And here the government can't do much because it promotes free trade. It is true, however, that our merchants have been cartelly linked to the formation of inflation by these large groups. The government is doing its best and on the right track. As I said before, 83% of the hottest chair in yesterday's show is a nice indicator that the government is doing well, that Prime Minister Janez Janša is on the right track. In short, we invite merchants and other makers of great inflation to step in front of the mirror and look into their eyes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will gladly support the proposal for a law on a protection supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, I can't hide my enthusiasm for Mr. Homan's findings. I hope the Slovenians are getting closer to golden times. I don't know what we're going to do with this enlarging. Otherwise, allow me to express my support for the proposal for a law on a protective supplement that we are considering. It is stated in the justification for the urgent procedure that this will prevent the damage that would arise if the existing method of valorisation of the protective allowance were maintained due to the recurrence of 50 000 of the most socially disadvantaged pension recipients. Well, what is written here is, of course, in line with what the party of the Social Democrats pointed out as early as October 2006, when we adopted the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households. And the government's recognition that the recipients of the protective supplement have been damaged and that the method of coordination is not appropriate is this moment like a rag on a torn skirt of the social security of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, if I paraphrase Cankar a little. It is also stated in the justification that the security allowances for the harmonisation of pensions decreased in 2007. With each increase in pensions, these supplements have been reduced, and some have even lost the right to a protective allowance. And let me remind you, as it is said, on October 2006, when we discussed the coordination of 38 different transfers in the Transfer Coordination Act and when Miran Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Members, said that the law had many important shortcomings that should not be addressed at all and that we strongly oppose it. It also referred to this law as the law, which means, in the first place, the reduction of social transfers, but not their harmonisation. This was also acknowledged by the proposaler when she said that the effect of this law was savings in public funds for transfers, and we worked our best on the parental committee and then at the plenary session with the amendment to Article 3, which said that social transfers were coordinated in a manner and within the deadlines set for the coordination of pensions under the law on pension and disability insurance. So, not with rising prices of living needs, but with rising wages - it was rejected. It was also rejected, which means a mechanism for coordinating transfers, to coordinate December-December, but not as is now being coordinated December 2007-January 2007. December 2007 - December 2006. And we could tell you what the weaknesses of this marriage are and what we've all been alerting ourselves to. However, as the patch does, the adoption of the supplement to Article 4 on the parent working body, where we are among the beneficiaries of our amendment proposal, then this amendment to the Committee's amendment, has also included those who, under the law on pension rights and disability insurance of former military insured persons with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, have included among these beneficiaries all that we believe could be improved in this law, but we have not managed to bring the amendments into the amended law. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In particular, it is the beneficiaries of the widow's pension of military insurers. [[...]] It is a pity, however, that this is indeed an extremely non-systemic solution - the release of this work. Finally, let me stress that the Social Democrats support the adoption of the law, because it does mean improving the situation for the most vulnerable group of people. In particular, we stress that it is not a systemic solution and a pity that we missed a good opportunity in October 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u102	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, President, Secretary of State. I'm not going to be long because we had a word-inflation today when we were in inflation. Inflation of charges, inflation of self-esteem, and so on. With these new and latest auctions, the government has announced some measures to reduce the impact of the auctions. And also the Protection Supplements Act is just one of these aspirins, teas that will not improve the state and health, but lessen the consequences and symptoms. The systemic issue will certainly not change, which means that we are saving the part of the population that has already been pushed over the poverty line. The one who is approaching this threshold because of the government's ignorance of inflationary problems, not yet. And, of course, we expect that the anti-inflation measures, later announced however, will also bring these more lasting and systemic solutions. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the bill because we have supported such solutions in the end. We regret, however, that such social pressures on people were needed, so that they, after all, at the Ministry, found that the social situation of individuals due to the adoption of the Transfer Coordination Act is worse than it was. If you remember, at the time the position of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs was such that it was telling, boasting and talking only about how much the state budget would save. It is said: the ministry, which was not concerned about social welfare, but was concerned that the state budget was, say, more prominently available to the public. It is the government that must take systematic action to avoid further social disintegration and must take systematic action to ensure that inflation is as low as possible. Now I'm not talking about the reasons. The causes, of course, and the external causes of each government - oil has been on the market for many years and energy too, food has been on the table since 2002 and 2003 due to drought in Australia. We've forgotten that. But something else is to blame. But if you don't do something when it's time, if you don't act on the warnings, it's questionable. You don't know, you can't or you won't. And given what's going on today, it seems to me that this is a little pyromanic-fire: "We're going to start a fire, so we're going to be heroes and put it out." Because it was time that we didn't make this move, that the people, the 200,000 we're talking about today, or the 12% go over the threshold, over the edge of poverty. The adoption of the Protection Supplement Act is only part of solving this problem, which revolves around social transfers and should be carefully considered in the short term, it is said, those who are truly purely social, and also those who are linked to insurance. Thus, from here, I think we should call in the Liberal Democracy that the Government will consider a detailed analysis and a further social protection strategy, especially when it comes to the most vulnerable groups of the population and there will be more of them today, because inflation, even if it starts tomorrow with no action, will not stop. We support and call on everyone, including those who are tired of believing that we are hungry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Well-welcome Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed package of laws that we are considering at today's meeting is another measure to reduce the negative effects of inflation and improve the situation of people with the lowest income. A particularly vulnerable group of people are pensioners who receive pensions that are lower than the basis for the benefit of additional rights. In Slovenia there are about 50,000 such pensioners and they are entitled to a protective allowance. Although the security allowance is linked to the right to a pension, it is essentially a social adjustment. As a result of the harmonisation of pensions, the level of the protective allowance has decreased and some have even lost their right, which has undoubtedly led them to an unenviable position in view of the rise in the prices of living needs. By amending the law proposed by the Government, the situation of recipients is significantly improving. The amount of the protective allowance will be coordinated in accordance with pensions and at the level of pensions. During the amendments adopted by the Committee, in the New Slovenia Group it seems particularly important to us an amendment to Article 4, which introduces a protective allowance also for those pensioners who receive a pension from the republics of the former Yugoslavia, if they meet the relevant conditions. Let us remember that these are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially those who have worked in neighbouring Croatia who have been deprived for years and many of them have indeed lived on the threshold of poverty. In the mandate of this Government, we have provided these people with an allowance for invalidity and service and an annual allowance or regress, which they received for the first time in last year. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we are pleased that the Government wants to provide financial assistance to all pensioners who are entitled to a protective allowance due to their level of pensions. And we don't share them like we did in the past years on those who worked at home and those who worked in the former republics of the former Yugoslavia. Due to all these facts, the proposed law on the protection supplement will be supported in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. In opening, I would like to say that the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will unanimously support the proposal for a Protection Supplement Act, and I am of the opinion that it would be more reasonable and systematicly more just to amend the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers in Work, which inadmissibly interferes with the additional rights of individuals who receive pensions within the pension system, which is governed by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, rather than enacting a new law. In any event, we are also expressing to Mrs Cotman's Minister of the Slovenian People's Party's Group all the recognition that she has been able, although very late, to be brave and, with this bill, to cut off the unsustainable state of the recipients of the lowest pensions, to which the Slovenian People's Party is a party, and personally, I have pointed directly and consistently to the situation caused by the Government and, unfortunately, also to the government's coalition with the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers. And here's every conjecture on this issue is completely superfluous. This law also intervened in the new way of coordinating all transfers from public funds into those primary transfers within pension and disability insurance, which also account for up to 1/3 of the total pension income, which receives a strong over 40,000 pensioners and is reflected to the greatest extent in the allowance, in the disability allowance, in addition to the pensions of Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ Republic and the maintenance of elderly farmers under Article 3 of the Law on the Maintenance of Farmers, without mentioning the allowance for assistance and service. All these additional pension rights have not been harmonised over the past year, irrespective of high inflation, and even more unacceptable than this, it is also that the basis of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act has not been harmonised, as has been the case with respect to all other pensions. Therefore, the pension income of these people remained the same as practically at the beginning of the year. These rights would, however, be harmonised now, as well as all other transfers, as once a year, but significantly lower than pensions. The Slovenian People's Party has adopted, strongly opposed and warned the coalition about the consequences that such an approach will have for the recipients of the lowest pensions, but unfortunately after one year, we have also given in to such an approach. However, we managed to maintain at least a state pension in the pension coordination system. The Minister of Finance then called me someone who doesn't know things that don't understand things. But look at him, well, what the hell quickly turned out to be how well I knew these questions. It is correct and fair, mistakes made to admit and make an effort to remedy them and improve the situation. For this reason, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group has managed, in the coalition coordination of the draft Law on the Protection Supplement, with a great deal of emphasis on introducing a pension allowance to Slovenian citizens who receive pensions from the republics of the former SFRJ, and with the unanimous support of the entire labour body also of maintenance in accordance with Article 3 of the Law on the Maintenance Protection of Farmers, which is already the very nature of their pension. There is no justification for coordinating pensions differently. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that this law eliminates the Government's poor decision and thus improves, at least to some extent, the material state of the recipients of the lowest pensions with enormous incentives. We also expect Mrs Cotman to prepare, on a level playing field, an amendment to the Law on the Coordination of Minimum Wages, which, in our view and in the view of many Members, is the same bad decision of the Government. We believe, however, that a different approach will have to be found in the context of high economic growth and at the same time high indistinguishable inflation to establish a budget surplus, as was the case with the Social Transfer Coordination Act, which is regrettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca also has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u108	I had previously wondered whether I would take that word at all, given that in today's debate every talk of opposition was marked as just a papaya repetition of one and the same stories, even more - funny and imbecile stories, we have heard. But I respect the space and opportunity to express the position of my Group of Members or to wonder what we have heard today from Mr Stroves, the Secretary of State, who said in the introduction that the pensioners are going to heaven. You know that movie Working Class goes to heaven from the time of the resurrected class movement. The pensioners are going to heaven because they are so good at it, because this government, with the lord at the head, has done so much for them, because it has ensured so well that they do not really have to be afraid of anything. This law, as one of those three, in a package that is supposed to put out the fire, is expected to further improve this situation. All right, we're going to support it in the parliamentary group, putting out the fire like this, we just accept, we know that it's not enough to put out the bucket of fire, that a good fire team is needed, even more, we need to do everything we can to keep the fire out. It wasn't made here, and that's why it's now extinguished in an amateur way, in a loving way, but it's also more than nothing, but the fire will be partially extinguished by this wind, it'll be a little popular, and the problems won't be saved. Maybe they'll be bigger tomorrow. But I would like to point out that this marriage is not just about putting out the fire, but it is also about remorse, as other interlocutors have found. The government recognises a mistake in return, it knows that it is forced to do a correctional exam, not only because of inflation, but also because of social unrest and the fact that it is running its fourth year of rule. And there will be no illusion: it is not a special, new social sense - if this were at work, we would have experienced it earlier - but it is a politically sensitive year with which the government is dealing as well as it can: it has some tools, some put them on a table. If this social sense were to be present, we would also have made a readjustment, not a solution, as it was given here, when the correction and correctional exam would take place in January, February, but not for the previous years or the previous year. In doing so, it should not be forgotten that, at the time of the projected budget rebalancing, certain funds may be squeezed out, which should go to the end of these fires within this three, so that they can be deducted from the transfer within this balance. Who knows why not? You put one pocket in the other pocket and the other pocket in the other pocket. In short, it's a law that restores stolen rights. This law, as it is said, will not be opposed, even if it quickly muzzles the worst holes in social reality. And it is important to stress that this is a matter of duality. The government took something first, and now, as it were, something is coming back. Those who have fallen into distress are now returning, but some minor change. In short, the government restores the stolen rights that it took in many levels when it froze the transfers. And despite such high economic growth, all I can say is that pensioners should not be afraid, nor matilda or anything else, because their protective allowance will be increased by January or February. Don't be afraid of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on articles or amendments tabled. Two amendments have been tabled to this bill, namely the amendment to Article 20 - parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS and the amendment to Article 25 - of the Group of Social Democrats. I open the debate on Article 20. Anybody want a word? Mr. Run, please. Article 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. What's wrong? Do I have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u111	Here you go, but I just warned you - about Article 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u112	By 20. Yeah. Yes, thank you very much. First of all, it would be right, dear colleagues and colleagues, to explain what the content of Article 20 means. It means the proposal of four parliamentary groups to delete the proposal of the Social Democrats, which was adopted by the home labour force at the meeting of the Committee. In fact, on our proposal, disability has also been included in the system of coordination of pensions under this law. Now four parliamentary groups are proposing that the disability be eliminated. We still believe that it would be right for beneficiaries of disability to also be a category of beneficiaries in some way of pension and disability protection, which is certainly not a privileged group. Perhaps some individual among them - yes, collectively certainly not, and we are afraid that very soon the same thing will happen as is now happening with this law - will first be a vehement statement by the Government that the law that we are changing today is excellently prepared to have no consequences for citizens and citizens, for pension recipients and recipients of social benefits. Even for the stupid and we didn't know how to count - those we said would have consequences during the year even if inflation wasn't high. Mr. Strows was a fantastic mathematician, and above all a great demagog, and he spoke the untruth when he claimed it. Today, thank God, we admit it. But I'm warning you, and I'm afraid something like this could happen to the disabled. And if your conclusion is correct, respected colleagues and colleagues from the four coalition parties, that it is technically difficult to do so, that you are substantively agreeing with it, what you did not say, and yet I suppose so, then I think we can vote for the amendment and then find an appropriate technical solution in the third reading. On the other hand, I would like to reiterate that most disabled persons who depend on their degree of physical impairment and where, as a rule, percentages are relatively low and the basics are relatively low, deserve to be coordinated in the manner provided for in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I am opening the application, which is the debate on the amendment to Article 20. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. With this amendment, and finally with the whole law, if I use that speech that some Members have before me, we are correcting a law that was passed more than ten years ago. We're correcting the mistakes of some of the previous governments. That's the rumor. That's how we can understand her. But I believe that this amendment is correct, that it is good and will have beneficial effects for those of our pensioners who have obtained a majority of the working age or insurance in the former republics of Yugoslavia, and that other rights are also granted to them, as stated here: that is to say, to approach the condition or standards enjoyed by pensioners who have reached an insurance age in Slovenian territory. Of course, we can also mention other pensioners from other countries, not former Yugoslavs, but who acquire pensions based on social agreements. But I wanted to talk to you about this amendment, about how vivid the Members' speech is, and then, say, it's been a year and it turns out that they've said something else. This would also be the case with respect to the protective supplement. The social security allowance, together with the pension, this minimum, after the current system, which was established on the basis of the coordination of social transfers, is in fact as high as this total benefit under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act adopted under the previous government. That's it, about the same. This means that the changes in the pension law were much more favourable and there was much debate as to whether the budget would hold. For example, from the Social Democrats there was a claim, I quote: "The toughness of the coalition is the most important, even though billions of public funds have to be given for four votes in parliament." And finally, and finally, "The government is spending this proposal," of course, for citizens, "not to offer at the same time a single solution to how it will create everything. The full responsibility for the consequences of the Public Finance Act in the coming years is therefore fully borne by the Government and the government coalition." So this government coalition has been very pinnacle to citizens and pensioners. Yes, and then Mrs Žgajner Tavš, who is currently - well, here is: "From the point of view of the exercise or the guarantee of social rights, the proposal today is undoubtedly commendable and in some ways also a bold move by the proposer. Why? This is a proposal which, with its consequences, undoubtedly has an irreparable impact on the public finances system of the Republic of Slovenia. The view of the effects of this law on the pension allowance" - that is, there will be too much spending on the pension allowance. So, "We will not object to faster reconciliation of pensions with wage growth, but we hope that the Government is aware of the difficulties of the area and, above all, is aware of any consequences that might affect our country's public finances in the wrong calculations." Attention to the serious budgetary implications of over-expenditures for our pensioners. Similarly, Mr Gantar, also from this debate, mentions a very well-known matter, also mentions financial experts who have pointed out that we will make a financial hole: "I would, however, draw attention to the article published in Del," signed by the three economists on 17 April, and they seriously point out that such consistent reconciliation of pensions with wage growth cannot be interpreted as fair. It means that pensioners will receive an ever-increasing share of gross domestic product." These were interpretations of economists. Let's see, let's let the government now give them an answer to whether this share of the budget expenditure, or the share of the gross product, has increased, which is allocated to the pensioners. We stopped the fall! And then, "these are the original promises", i.e. the amendment of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, "they are the original promises of NSI and SDS and not even the special original promises in this form, i.e. this law, not DeSus, these are the declarations. "We are paying the price for the pre-election promises of two parties and we will all pay this price tomorrow," over-expenditure. Well, I'm not going to bore you too much because the debaters were more or less all about the same and they were speaking in this direction, which is why my fellow Member, Shirca, had earlier spoken. It follows that these discussions, or that what we are doing, were all wrong to be imbecile stories and stupid stories. Please, I'm not gonna characterize anything who's some stupid or imbecile story about this rule. Read the magnetogram and see what was discussed at the time, and draw a parallel to the state of pensions in the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, this amendment is going in the right direction, it is correct, it corrects the mistakes of the previous governments, because these pensioners have not been guaranteed the same pension, which I am also advocating.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I would like to explain to both ladies that I cannot give you a replica because they did not have a discussion earlier in this debate. Replica was demanded by Mrs Žgijner on what Mr Mag said. It's a trifle. Since you haven't discussed it before, you can't get a replica. But you're going to sign up for the debate. Please, both of you. But the word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u116	Thank you again, Mr Vice President. Well, the former government representative and the current government representative both have enough reason to think about some of their statements when we talk about social transfers and attitudes towards people. But allow me, Mr. Mag. Petty Officer, no one talked about the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We are talking about the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households. And with regard to this law, it is necessary to reiterate that I also have magnetograms and amendments here, where we Social Democrats on the working body and then at the assembly we proposed an amendment to Article 3, which said that these transfers are coordinated in time and in the manner set out for the coordination of pensions under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The mere conclusion of this amendment shows that we could not have had any doubts about this law and the harmonisation of pensions. So much for the accuracy of quoting and referring to things. I stress once again: in this Article, it was proposed that social transfers be coordinated once a year, in January, with rising prices of living needs during the period January-December of the previous year, compared to the same period in the year before that, according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, distinguished representatives of the government, former and present, convinced us that it would be beneficial for them to lose nothing. Once again, I say that the coordination mechanism is not appropriate because it should be December-December, but no protection for high inflation has been incorporated into the law. That's when you interpreted it as if inflation would never happen to us again. And, excuse me, it is incorrect to compare some of the measures from the time when we all worked together to achieve the Maastricht criteria for entry into the euro area with the current ones when we all lived in worry about what will cause reception. And we were aware of this danger. And the government had the responsibility and right to take measures to prevent these effects from manifesting themselves in such drastic forms as they have now shown. I am very sorry that you have decided in the coalition under this law, which I still think does not mean a systemic solution to the problem, that it is only a partial solution, that you have decided in this law, which deals with the protection allowance, the circle of beneficiaries and transfers again to reduce and exclude invalidity. If the justification for this law is that pensioners must be protected because they are no longer competitive in the labour market - people with disabilities have the same problem as they are not competitive in the labour market. And then it was said that there was a lot more to be added and there was a lot more that could be done - since we have added some things to it! Because the laws of marriage are often very inaccurate, or those who interpret the law do not take this into account. For example, for the category of beneficiaries I spoke about earlier on behalf of the parliamentary group, these are those beneficiaries of the law on pension and disability insurance of former military insured persons with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. It was an interpretation that they didn't judge, because they weren't specifically written. But the lawmakers, if you go to see them, their intention was not to eliminate this group, so it is right that this group is now written down and I consider it nevertheless the ability to understand the problem of this coalition to include this group. But I could also include something else, including that group that we will discuss in the context of Article 25. I am very sorry that you have now decided to do such an intervention and in fact, but here your skill is also seen, you have not said that what we have adopted on the committee will be lost, but you have only said that this dictatorship is replaced by the word 'coordinated'. And you can't see what we've actually done if we're reading it right. But here, of course, is my former professional open field, what we were going to say and why we said it this way -- because it's probably hard to justify why you have now changed the decision on the committee. If I were to quote a member of the largest government parliamentary group now, then I should say, "You said it was good then, don't change the decision now." Even though we're not talking about the same things. I don't think that acceptance of this amendment is necessary, and I'm not going to give him any support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, the speech of the Members is vivid, especially if this Member was a minister when he prepared and proposed a law on the coordination of social transfers. Indeed, it is an illustrative speech by a Member who was the minister who proposed the amendment of the law on coordination or amendment of the law on ZPIZ, a truly scenic rumor! This amendment in no way corrects what the previous government has done, which has been so capable of reforming it, and that we are still acting today, that reform gives results and we are visas of what is firmly positioned against the Lisbon Strategy. Far from doing so, however, by harmonising social transfers, we have done something in this Government as well as implementing the Lisbon Strategy Implementation Programme, which includes the adoption of the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers as a key success in which we have done what we have done in the pension and disability insurance system. Of course, I object to this amendment. I support it only in that it may include the maintenance protection of farmers in the title of the law or this article. But it's okay. We have accepted this on the committee, but in the sense that the title of the law should also summarise all that the article provides for materially, this can also be corrected by the harmonisation amendment. But the former government, in which I worked intensively on the issue of this law, which still produces results, also introduced disability. This disability goes primarily to people who enjoy a disability pension, which is usually small. And many of these also enjoy a protective supplement. Thank God! Sometimes well-coordinated, then nothing, according to the ideal assessment of such picturesque speeches by Members such as Mr Drobnic, will now be coordinated with these lowest receipts. But at that time, in that despicable government, we gave a disability to those people who had a physical disability such that they could virtually no longer create the income they had. And may this invalidity allow them to pay a favor to do it. And she was systematically involved in the system of pension and disability insurance. And there is no justification that the disability would not be coordinated in the same way as all these other transfers, such as the security supplement, such as the addition to Slovenian citizens - which is not much to explain. If I didn't insist so stubbornly on coordination, it wouldn't be in this law, as maintenance is now being coordinated - do you know what farm maintenance is? It is received by those who, because of their old age, have given their possessions to the State to give them some income as a pension to survive. These properties are constantly acquired at value, and we have gone to these good 40 people practically with this survival in such inflation, to no coordination whatsoever. And look, the singing law that Mr. Petty Officer was talking about. With that law we really went to coordinate hard to raise wages. I'm still saying this isn't right. With that law, we have also given additional public funding for annual allowances to those pensioners who receive the highest pensions. In the same breath, Minister Bajuk wanted a law on the coordination of social transfers with which we wanted to make up for it by collecting this coordination. And this is what the Slovenian People's Party and I personally resisted for a year. Let's know how the truth stands! They admit mistakes and correct them, correctly, to all those we have wronged. And there's no justification. This state budget cannot afford enough additional public money to harmonise the disability as long as the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers has been adopted, just as a security allowance is being coordinated, as the pensions are being coordinated. Because of these small additional benefits that may be received by the most vulnerable pensioners, because they have this accident on their hands, that they are also physically completely powerless, this country will not, through this surplus, "devil takes" - according to the household. And I don't see the reason why something that's been adopted on the committee is now coming back to this no-coordination. No, it really isn't. If we have something human in us, then we can't accept it. It is true, however, that if this amendment is not adopted, Article 20 will remain somewhat inconsistent with the title of the law in relation to all three rights which are further conferred in the substantive provision. However, this is a matter of the harmonisation amendment, the Committee has adopted its amendment, which has also included maintenance in it and, if necessary, we can also return it to the address. I would really like to invite everyone, but I will certainly strongly ask my Group of Members not to be burdened by signing. This amendment has no value in getting support, not really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Genius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that the former Minister, Mr Drobnič, and the Secretary of State are without need praising each other with the solutions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2005. Because the minister was literally forced by the Prime Minister to do so in the first place, to make a difference - on the one hand. On the other hand, the amendments at the time were invalid in relation to the entry in the coalition contract and it is not true - and this needs to be reiterated - that pensions are aligned with wage growth in line with the growth of wages and that in 2007, for example, compared to net salaries, they will be lagging by up to 2%. Thus, it is not true that the situation of pensioners as a result of the change at the time would substantially improve, no, poverty among pensioners is increasing. Only because of the law that has frozen seven pension and disability benefits that are paid, is it said that the transfers paid in parallel to the pension from this cash register, for example, at the expense of the freezing of the annual allowance of 15,000 already poor pensioners earning less than EUR 400, have been wasted on those few tolars of higher income. In fact, 15 thousand have fallen into a lower income and may have exceeded the threshold by raising a pension by one euro over a full old pension and losing 150 euros in that year to a lower annual allowance. Of course, it is not the problem that the annual allowance has been frozen for those who have the highest pension, but the majority that it receives is the one under it. There are 300,000 who have a lower allowance and from that contingent have been hit by as many as 15 000 last year at pay and will again be about so many new candidates if the Act on the Cessation of the Law on Social Transfers is not adopted this year. I must also say that the financial issue here is actually empty when it comes to these seven pension and disability insurance rights, where the allowance is also included. Because the P.I.Z. informed us that for the P.I.S. cash register, this cost is not a problem. This has been informed by the National Assembly and all Members, so the attack on public finances in this sense is babbling, which only obscures the right and the decision in this regard. And here I must say that it is also a great honour for Mr Brenčič, who in fact hindered the adoption of the law at that time; we opposed it; it helped nothing. Here are the consequences that we are correcting now, thus, of course, that some alarming benefits will not be: people will get back what they were needlessly deprived of. If I go to the amendment now to article 20, which is the amendment of the coalition. I signed this amendment because I was told this morning that an adopted amendment at a committee meeting could not be implemented if something was not corrected. Okay, I said, then let the government tell you how this accepted solution can be implemented, and we'll table a joint amendment. And when I got it signed, I thought I was signing it. My signature was in good faith that it brought about a correction, the possibility that this solution, which was adopted by the committee, would be applied. And I think we should. That's why I signed an amendment to the coalition. Now, anyway, I don't think it's bad that this thing is going to work out in that sense. This is one of the rights which has already suffered so much under the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers and would now be resolved in parallel. Another option is to resolve the issue in the third reading with an appropriate amendment when adopted. And the next option is to support the law on the termination of the Act on the coordination of social transfers in the first reading of January and then to further address this problem together with all other outstanding problems in the field of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. I am simply explaining why our Group's signature is at this amendment, in some sense I feel cheated, because there was no precise basis or objective to be followed by a joint amendment, but, however, it is signed, it is better that it is accepted as no one else, because otherwise it will not be possible to remedy things in the third reading. I must also say this that the adoption of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the responsibility of the former Minister and the Secretary of State was later irreconcilably implemented. For example, the annual allowance did not increase for the registered economic growth in that year, but only at the expense of May of the well-known economic growth, which was half lower than then at the end of the year, and in November we could have made some modest calculation and we did not. That's why I'm just saying that someone wouldn't sneeze with a magnificent amendment to the law, we wrote a really nice thing, but it didn't come true - because the same is true for the widow's pension, for that part of the widow's pension, which was then tied to 70% of the family pension, but not to the total pension of the deceased spouse, although it's already a 15%-average pension, which is now 450 euros, nothing more, maybe more. So this is not a big deal, and in this sense we will support this amendment, so that we may partially resolve this issue today, sooner than the set still awaits us in this spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, it's just that, Mr. Run. It's a report. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Potch, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the statements made by Mr Brenčič and Mr Žnidaršič. I would just like to point out this and suggest that if the sincere desire to cooperate with the Government, because I do not know how to do this, make the amendment correct, then that, because it is an urgent procedure, should be made even before a final decision on this amendment is made. If this is not done by the ruling coalition, I will respect the words of my colleague Brenčič and Žnidaršič, only of the others will it mean that they do not want a category that is problematic, and that is what we have all identified, to include in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u124	Thank you. Well, since it's kind of an electrified situation within the coalition itself, I would suggest that you calm down the horses a little bit, but above all that you're telling the truth. Otherwise, the chairman of the committee surprised me a little bit, in the very position, and earlier in the debate, and I have to take a call about this. You know, I come from an area or municipality where we have the most pensioners who receive pensions from the former Republic of Croatia of the former Yugoslavia. Look, the committee adopted this legislation on Wednesday on the committee, and I, when I looked at the law on Tuesday, see that what I always wanted or was my job, because I come from this area to fight for these people, I see that what we've actually always talked about, that those recipients of the protective supplement should be, too, not in law. Friday night! And now somehow talking about how someone was trying or trying to make it into a marriage, that's why I had to answer. Because - I don't know, though, after I arranged for my group, and then for the rest, I went home, and then the second day was adopted. And I would only ask that we be correct in such matters. I am very pleased that the other parliamentary groups have supported this proposal, in fact all, coalition and opposition, I am very pleased that the chairman of the committee in the past has done a great deal on this and is still trying, but I would still ask him, in view of this gruesome debate here - I do not know why then the chairman of the committee has not proposed an amendment? And that I will not be unpleasant in this respect, I will also conclude with this, because I had to come forward for the sake of my people and my citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch, please leave my performance alone. Make your own arrangements and arrange to stop horses where horses gallop when they don't have a command. This amendment is without prejudice to a law we have adopted in previous governments. As for the issue, Mr Mikolič, the issues of Slovenian citizens who receive pensions in the countries of the former republics of the SFRJ. We are talking about ensuring the social security of these citizens, and this supplement that they receive to their pension is one that is already automatically excluded in income from the threshold of entry into the protective allowance. So far, this supplement has not been coordinated with the Social Transfer Coordination Act as it did with all other pensions as before. With this, yes, when we coordinated a coalition proposal that did not contain it at all, the coalition gathered so much courage and will to put it in. And in this alone, the chairman of the committee or at that time, Mr Brenčič, has been active and will continue to be active on this issue - whether it is right or wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zginer, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that again. I will not focus or hunt for words spoken in my style by one of my colleagues before me, who was even former Minister of Social Affairs. The minister who came with a criminal, controversial law on the coordination of transfers. On 27 October, as I recall, this law was adopted in 2006. Very strange. On December 1st of the same year, the same minister flew away because he was incompetent because he was weak because he had caused too much injustice to our society. In my introductory presentation, I put a great deal of emphasis specifically on the Transfer Coordination Act, which is actually why we are talking about the Protection Supplement Act today. It is clearly stated in this law, and I will not manipulate words, I will not add my comments, but in this law which he has prepared and under which the Magus has been signed. It is written: "The Government notes with satisfaction, in the context of the financial implications for the budget, that the effects of the changes in valorisation compared to the pre-adoption situation will be a savings in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia." I will not add my comments, just the question - what is this other than social savings, in the area of social transfers? If you want, I can back up my question with a government document called the Stability Programme. This is a government document which, as a third key measure in terms of reducing expenditure levels, refers specifically to the area of reduction: financial resources at the expense of social transfers. This is what is the key reason why we are solving the problem of pensioners today. The problem was done in this law, these government documents, because the government is saving. And, let me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u130	Excuse me, excuse me. I also wanted to receive, otherwise on the working body, a reply from the Ministry's representatives. At that time, I received a promise that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will prepare an answer to the question of how much the Government of the Republic of Slovenia saved at the expense of social transfers in 2007, because they had not coordinated. I didn't get an answer until now. So the ministry ate up another promise that it made. I wonder where the credibility of this ministry is. Therefore, I also say that the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups has no place to decide on it. The explanation set out in this amendment is also misleading, I think. If there were at least a few, then probably, as Ambassador Potrč suggested, the government, the Ministry, would prepare a coordinated amendment. If the key culprit is a condition adopted on the home working body, as they say, the texts in the form described simply cannot be implemented. If that were the case, then the government would have drawn up a coordinated amendment. That is why I say that if the amendment of coalition parties is adopted in such a form as it is written, then this will remain such content until the end of the law. I'm sure of that. We will not support this amendment in the unaffiliated Members' Group of Members of the People's Party. But I would like, as I say, and I hope to receive concrete answers from the representatives of the Ministry to the questions I have asked. You know, according to the information I have, allow me to provide them to Members and Members, as well as to the public. Because of a law that has been unjust, which is unjust, which solves the situation today only in a narrow segment, but only in the area of pensioners, it does not include it, does not solve all transfers that are being paid or coordinated. The protection allowance decreased on average by 7.1%, and the beneficiaries of disability pensions received 8.8% less. The average benefit paid to recipients of old age pensions is lower by 7.9%. The average protective allowance for widow’s or family pension is lower by 5.3%. Farmers' livelihoods are lower by 0.8% than last year's average. The beneficiaries of the annual supplement were also disadvantaged, according to available statistics about 16 000 pension recipients were affected. Since there was no harmonisation, the November reconciliation of pensions affected 8,000 widows or widowers. It's just a few details, specifics. I am sad that these numbers are not capable of showing and forwarding to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I believe that there are no further debaters on this amendment to Article 20. That is why I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 25, and at the same time please, I am patient, but please, if you limit yourself to the debate on Article 25. I haven't interrupted you yet. Check-in is on. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The Group of Social Democrats has renewed the amendment, which has also been tabled for the work of the mother and has not been adopted. Since I had other obligations, for what particular reasons, why he was not accepted, I did not find out, but I think there were none. It's widows after military insurance. These are widows who reside in the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenian citizens, which is a condition for receiving the right, have paid contributions Please be kind and listen because you are inventing things that are incorrect. [[...]] They have paid contributions to our country's pension and disability fund and would have the same right as everyone else to that part of the widow's pension, which means a possible addition to the pension which a individual widow has on the basis of her own working age. This would be the only correct solution to which we have been alerting Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats for several years now, and we have received very strange answers. One answer is that this is impossible because the law has otherwise been arranged. Mr Strovs also explained this to us. He's really done something different, but... how? Thus, in the event of amendments and additions to Article 123 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance in 2005, I claim that it has been stolen by the Government on purpose in its amendment that it has the right to 15% of the widow's pension only if it goes to the pensioner under this law and the General Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance was envisaged in our country. This is an unacceptable solution for me, and that is the first reason and excuse for which the ruling coalition has been eloquent, if not impossible. It is possible if we consciously define ourselves differently. And the second reason is that these are insured persons who have paid for the pension and disability insurance fund of military pensioners in Belgrade. That's not true! This is a lie because the widows who were employed in Slovenia at the time were employed under the regular Slovenian rules on pension and disability insurance. They've been paying for our fund, and they have rights from this fund. And I claim that the widow's pension is the right of this insured person to receive a widow's pension, not a deceased insured person who has already died and may have paid in some other fund. Therefore, I ask that you take this provision into account in peace and that there are no other reasons why we do not wish to name them, for which we do not guarantee this right. In a social sense, however, it is as much affected persons as those who receive part of the widow's pension because of the situation they have experienced as widows. And all those who are closer to social issues, you know that the older single family, pension family, is usually beside young workers and with many children in the most difficult social situation, because some fixed cost of living has to cover and sometimes there is nothing left to survive normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Look, on the parental committee, I did not support this amendment simply because I was asked a question from a legal and legal point of view that, by law, to those who administer the "lex specialis" protection supplement, we are entering into an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. However, I firmly believe that what follows this amendment must be done and done in amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act if it is legally enforceable, even in this way I support it, which on the one hand is totally discriminatory. With the last amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we gave the widow a chance after the deceased husband that if he did not decide on his 70% pension, he could keep his and benefit 15% of his pension. And we have made this relatively high mountain of fairly high pensions. However, in the event that this widow is an insured person who has received a pension under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of the former military insurer, we do not grant her that right, but she is our citizen, she has been insured under our Pension and Disability Insurance Act and in some way this discriminatory relationship from the equality of citizens before the law needs to be corrected; or whether this can be done now with this law is another issue. I'd rather see that this is corrected by the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the first variant, but I can also do that. But the truth is, as a rule, these widows have a pretty low pension. After the applicants have stopped in my case after this change in arguments, I can conclude that it would be correct and fair for these citizens and citizens to eliminate this discrimination. At all, the visa of allowing in the last novel then some widows to keep their pension, which is not so small, and can benefit an additional 15% after the deceased husband or after the deceased wife. In this sense, I strongly support the content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application. Mr. Mag. Genius, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, first of all, I would like to say that when we were implementing the provisions of the Coalition Treaty and amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 2005, there was no harmonisation of this article, which prevented these widows from obtaining part of the pension of the deceased spouse. And this is a regrettable matter that was prepared by the Ministry itself. But we did not pay attention to it at the time because we did not discuss these articles, in good faith that others did not begin, we missed that change in the final text and did not attack it. But it is necessary to know what Mr Brenčič has already said that it is an absolute female part of the pension population, which is achieved by verifiable data, 40% of them, the threshold of poverty. As a result, there are many of these among them who do not unjustly receive this part of the deceased’s pension and are in serious trouble and rightly expect us to do something. I received a letter today in which DeSUS loses the voice of one such beneficiary if you did nothing to make it all right. I have already explained several times on the phone to this same lady that we are too small to solve this matter on our own, and that it is necessary to press those who have received the most votes by the pensioners, but I do not know whether they have done it or not. I support this amendment because, in a similar way to the principles of the content of another law, such as the principles of the Law on Social Transfers, which has reached into as many as ten other sectoral laws, it will undermine the rights of those who do not know now that some rights are no longer available unless they have read this law, and they still have in their hands something about their rights. And in this sense, it is our responsibility to resolve this matter. If the Government does not support this amendment, it would be right to commit itself here today and now to draw up a change that would have been adopted in this period, as long as the duration of this mandate, following a reduced procedure, as an amendment to the Law on Retirement and Disability Insurance in the National Assembly. In this case, there will be no disaster if the amendment falls, but I see no problem in being accepted. And if there is a problem with implementation, in the harmonisation amendment, things can be rectified in the transitional provisions. Thank you. We will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Dear President! So the amendment is certainly to be supported, and I also assess, as I said earlier about the speaker, that widows and farmers are the lowest, especially in the segment of all pensions, not reaching 4.4% nor the sum of more than 200 euros. They are moving there somewhere from EUR 100 to EUR 200, which is certainly not enough to be able to talk about the existence of a minimum of a beneficiary or beneficiary. Look, even if we adopt this law, I believe that we will all unanimously confirm it, as well as the previous one and also the one that is behind it. Even if we accept this, in fact, we will not be doing much to help the lowest recipients. There's something to know, but there's a lot to be sure of. In fact, it is a worrying fact that 42% of all in Slovenia receive such and different social transfers. These are the words of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. And if we can believe the government, and I believe that this information is bigger, then today, colleague Tavševa has told us very precisely that poverty is 12%, the government advocates 10%, it's already 240 and so many thousands of people living under the edge of poverty. In short, these are disturbing data that we can only get to know and feel, of course, relevant and genuine if we also experience this poverty. I believe that many of us actually have enough resources to help others survive from month to month. However, there are many who have nowhere to turn. And if we look at these particular pensions, there's something else I'd like to say. In fact, they were people who had to work for a certain period of their lives to get these pensions. And now that they don't have a way through life or a chance for normal survival, it's embarrassing. It's really embarrassing! And what we are doing today in the framework of these laws that we are enacting is in some way mitigating the prevailing situation, which over the years has deteriorated dramatically for the poorest or for those who receive the lowest personal income. At the same time, we must not forget the fact that we have made it possible for those who have a lot of money and who have had enough of it years ago to become even richer. The imbalance between rich and poor has deepened: the poor are even more poor and the rich are even richer. What we are doing today is a short-term solution, and I believe that we will not stop this wave of poverty by adopting what we are adopting in the framework of these laws that are ready for adoption today. And neither the discontent of the unemployed nor the pensioners will be stopped. If you think you're going to do the last thing in this context today, you're wrong. This must be done in a different way. The radical change in the budget and the extraordinary meeting of the signatories of the opposition parties, which in fact signed the signing to convene an extraordinary meeting, will tell you how. And if the position were to listen to the opposition when the budget was adopted, believe me, there would be no problem here today. We are needless to say today that we have such a swollen condition, since we have also closed our eyes to reality for so long. And today the problem is obvious. As I have said before, I have given every actor in the country a written initiative to hold this meeting on poverty, a meeting dedicated to the National Assembly with all seriousness, to prevent this problem from escalating as it is today. However, see, I did not receive an answer from the President of the National Assembly, nor did the President of the Government. And the President of the country, the former, not the present one, did not respond as if there were no such problems in Slovenia. If this problem were to be faced last year, it might not be necessary to adopt these laws at all, because we would have some reasonable measure in the legislation that we have withdrawn from the process of adoption - I have experienced that one such law has been withdrawn. Nor would they have abolished the subsidy for the purchase of new apartments, nor would they have abolished subsidies for assistance in households, families that do not reach a social minimum and a number of other matters could today be transparent in force. But since that is not the case, we have a problem that escalates, as well as prices that have gone wild. I wonder, in fact, I would like to see in this first instance also any representative of the Government, perhaps the Minister for Labour, the President of the Government, to tell you how he wants and how he intends to stop these wild prices. There is nothing to help us if we raise pensions for 15 euros, but if the prices of basic living needs per month are higher than 10% per month. But it is clear to everyone that we have done nothing about it. I expect solutions at an extraordinary meeting convened by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I am pleased that at least those of us who have discussed have learned where the problem is, and we have expressed a positive attitude towards it, and I believe that this will be the case in the vote. I would ask the Legislative and Legal Service to warn us if it is really impossible, and I know it is not nice - legally, settle this issue in the way it is proposed. Because we would rather see that this is done and that we have it fixed, and then we fix it later, as if we were making a lot of promises to each other, and then it might not come true. But if it is said that it is really impossible, we will find another way, very soon we will find it, and I hope that, I would say, the warmth or correctness, at least for some who have spoken today, will remain the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u141	And Mrs. Mag. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have already said at a meeting of the Committee that, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, I have experience with the difficulties faced by pensioners who have now been discussed at Article 25. And when we turn to the authorities for an explanation, they answer us the way they answer. This is that marriage solutions are such that this is not possible because they are not covered by the law. The fact is that in the group of the most vulnerable people, as mentioned earlier today, in particular single-family or single-member households, these are generally low-income women. And I very much agree with the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brenčič, that the way in which the pensioners of this category receive such treatment is highly discriminatory. Because the right to a pension is a right exercised by the beneficiary in accordance with the principle of reciprocity and solidarity. During his or her working time, he or she paid, and then, as a beneficiary, has the right to make his or her contributions, according to his or her ability to expect a pension with which she will live as sustainablely as possible. And for these pensioners, it cannot be said that they have a pension in accordance with all those rights that can be exercised or enforced by other categories of pension. And it seems to me that in this case we would follow the principle of 'better sparrow in hand than pigeon on the roof', even if, legally speaking, it is possible to understand the concerns of fellow Member Brančič. However, given the dynamics of regulating things, given the variability of readiness to make promises, it is better to accept the amendment to Article 25 and to regulate the thing that should have been and which has also been confirmed by some, it is not said in public, but that this solution would have already been judged in the Law on the Protection Amendment. I reiterate that we have to deal with the consequences of a law that has been expressly inappropriately adopted. I have said several times that even coordination mechanisms are not good. There you will find four groups of different transfers as they coordinate. It is very interesting to see what is being coordinated once a year: also scholarships, child allowances, parental benefits and similar things - when we already have such a mouthful of understanding for families and children. There is much to be said at the expense of the original or original sin that I see in the Transfer Coordination Act. And in fact, I appeal to Members and Members of Parliament, in particular the ruling coalitions, to see the legitimacy of this amendment and not to confirm that it was just a joke that happened in the first vote of the Committee when the amendment received support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Since there are no more debaters, I conclude the debate on these two amendments and, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Ageing Security and Social Benefits - by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the government's representative. Mr. Stroves, Secretary of State, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u144	In recent months, we have actually faced a rapid rise in food prices. As a result, the most affected families are with more children, and the government has therefore decided to help this particular group. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits is prepared, after which children's allowances will be increased by 12%, first of all by 8.4% of the law you have before you, and a further 3.6% should be added to the existing Act on Coordination of Social Transfers, which in this case also applies. The overall impact will be quite important for families, as in the lowest income group - a family with three children - the total amount of child allowances will increase to €350 per month. These are child allowances for the first, second and third children in the first income class. The following income classes then fall, all the way to families where an individual member receives income that exceeds the average salary in the country. And there's no child support from there. In this way we have retained the social component in children's allowances and have fully compensated for the rise in food prices. Because even the most widely estimated food price growth index is around 12% there, and this is covered by this law. The law is appropriate, and I can also say that this is one of the types of measures in the field of family policy that have had an extremely good impact in recent years, and also an extremely good effect. Last year, 2,000 children were born more than in 2003, 600 more children than in the year before last. This year, it is likely that if this trend goes forward, we will overcome 20,000 newborns this year. All of this is the effect of some general feeling of young people to say, now is the time, now we can have children, and they actually decide to do so. And it is the country that must help them to cover the costs of raising and feeding these many families. This is a step in this direction, so I suggest you support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I ask the President, Mr Brenčič, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts was also dealt with as a preliminary law at the 19th emergency meeting of 18th this month. Representatives of the proposer and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs Mr Mark Štrovs and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service Method Horvat participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and made comments to both articles. No other amendments were submitted to the bill. In the introduction, the Secretary of State took the proposal of the law just as soon as it was, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly presented a written opinion and said that their comments were mainly covered by the proposed amendments to the Committee. It clarified the opinion relating to the provision of the new fourth paragraph. She pointed out that the text of the draft law did not provide an explanation for paragraph 4 and called on the applicant to clarify the issue of child supplement coordination systems, whether it was aligned with wage growth or fixed. There was no discussion between colleagues and colleagues of members of the Committee, but it was clear that they felt from their brief objections that they welcomed the decision of the Government and the proposal of the law as a whole. According to the representatives of the proposer, coordination is already in place, as child allowances continue to be coordinated under the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households and not under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, as proposed by law. The Committee has adopted both amendments below, and this is how the proposal for an amended law before us is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. This law will be supported by the Slovenian National Party. We are dealing with the law by means of an emergency procedure, as the Government says, because we want to prevent difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country. I know the consequences are hard to fix, but time is also a little inappropriate, because the government has already missed a lot. If I am allowed, the government also says that this law or the increase in the amount of the child supplement can prevent the potential risk of increasing poverty and, in fact, improve the status of children in the family itself. Of course, a little too late, we also assess this and disagree with the Government's statement, which it also made in the media, that given the relatively high share of social protection expenditure, the level of poverty in Slovenia is still relatively low, the Government wrote. Embarrassing, plainly embarrassing. What do they want this rate to be perhaps higher, higher? We will need 30 million euros in 2008 to implement this law, and if we are counting on the facts that this law will bring, I would like to draw attention to the following fact. The average three-member family will increase the children's allowance by €1 to €5. Look at the scales, calculate, and you will see how much this three-member family will benefit if the total income in the family does not exceed EUR 586, but there are quite a few families that have such benefits in the family. If that is true, then this law is, in essence, a dead letter on paper or a large footnote offered by the State to prevent poverty and help families. It is true, however, that for many families with a larger number of children, this contribution can be the same as that stated by the Secretary of State. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this law is better than nothing, but it is not the right solution. At the same time, we point out that when we look at the statement made by the mayor of Ljubljana, Mr Jankovic, the kindergarten has increased by about 30% in one wave. And it is likely that Ljubljana will not give up on this decision. If we take this into account, then it's all "milder heat." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much once again for your word, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I have heard, I think it was December, when the President of the Government appealed to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare certain positive social measures within the framework of the legislation. Four hundred thousand children will have a higher child allowance. That's when I said, "Bravo, bravo, minister, bravo, president of the government." If I melt 400 thousand children into real numbers, into real numbers, I take an average three-member family with one child. My colleague mentioned this information before me. The average three-member family with one child will receive about €1 per month more on the basis of the praise of a valuable marriage. And it's not even an entire euro, but let's say it's about 1 euro a month more. This is, dear colleagues, in the situation we are in today, about 1 litre of alpine milk per month. On the other hand, this same family, the same family, the three-member family, with one child, will have to pay €25 more from their family budget to encourage kindergartens. These are the positive effects of government social policy. It's reality, it's not demagogy. This is the reality our families are facing. Forty-seven thousand children are expected to face poverty in our country today. I had a real hemorrhage days ago when I was on TV listening to a single mother of two who lives below the poverty line. Once a week, this family can afford meat. But not meat in abundance, they share meat in order to provide at least about a balanced diet for children. I read the European Parliament report days ago, which gives a very clear warning to the entire European Union that children are not to be played at the expense of their health. The European Parliament has pointed to a shift in its policy from the policy currently being dictated by our country, the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, I regret to say that I have not heard from the first man in the Presidency of the European Union that he might have made a positive point in the specific policy on poverty reduction, which is already reflected in children. Every eighth Slovenian lives in misery, people's kitchens are being set up to have a place to eat. It's a reality. I believe that many mayors today would have a lot to say in this area - so that people have a place to eat and what to eat. The minister said days ago that the level of poverty was relatively low. I say, who are we kidding? You know, that kind of duality is ugly duality. Also because specific proposals were made at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs some time ago, let me mention only one. Do you know that there are 472 child dependants living in our country who have a maintenance of less than €20? However, the Ministry did not join in amending only one Article of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations throughout the past period, which would align the level of maintenance with the real increase in the prices of living needs, given that this money would not go out of the state budget at all. No, the Ministry couldn't do that. Let me tell you one more fact. These kids or, uh, lunch for these kids at school costs 45 euros. [[...]] It's a shame, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Undoubtedly, however, it is a measure that is well-supported, not least to cushion the situation of families.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! This has happened, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which should not have happened. Following the successful takeover of the euro, after the expiry of the Double Prices Act, there have been severe movements on the global market in energy prices and somewhat unexpected changes in strategic food raw materials. To this end, these movements have taken place in the same way for all euro area members. From here on, the situation in Slovenia has developed quite differently, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party as it should not have happened. In this situation, the standard of living of children and families with children has become compromised, and the Government has responded by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parental protection and family benefits. The bill has only two articles. Article 1 sets out the amount of the child’s allowance for each child, which depends on the income of the family member as a percentage of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. The maximum amount for one child from now on will be 102.37 euros, for another 112.62 euros, for the third and all subsequent 122.86 euros - for that family that has income per family member up to 15% of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, by increasing income, the amount of the child supplement is falling and the percentage is an increase of 8.4%. However, it should be pointed out that 8.4% increase the basis for regular annual coordination under the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia. According to already known actual data, the new bases I just presented for the first group will increase by an additional 3.6%. Through the measures presented, the Government wants to reduce the potential risk of increasing the poverty and exclusion of children who also enjoy special care and protection under the Constitution. The law will enter into force as soon as it is adopted in the National Assembly and the amendments to this law will apply from 1.1.2008. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party support the Government's efforts to protect the socially weak layers of our citizens, so we will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Treachery, you have the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on parental protection and family benefits binds us to a package of measures to improve the negative effects of increased inflation. It's all good and it's all right. However, in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, while stressing that we will support all three legislative proposals, we note that the original problem is in one law that the Government does not want to change - this is the Law on the Coordination of Transfers. Last August, for the first time, I received a response to the initiative to carry out an extraordinary valorisation of the Government's transfers and to reflect on the changes, the initiative was rejected. Then it was rejected by the Prime Minister of the Government. Then the Government rejected her on the question again, and she was also rejected by the Minister of Labour again. But again, there are no simulations of the effects of these measures. From what we have before us, we can see that these measures are more or less targeted towards people with the lowest income and people with children. That is true, but inflation has also affected a large number of people, who belong in the middle layer and drop it on the income scale below the average of their incomes and close to the poverty threshold. But that's not good, that's not right, and I specifically stress that there are no simulations. And when we adopted the budget and the Social Democrats proposed an increase in funds for social transfers, and when we covered expenditure for the military budget, we were demonised. We were too young to be State Security disruptors and State enemies number one. And what does the Prime Minister say now? That's right! For what the law says here in the proposal, "financial resources for the implementation of the law are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia", the President of the Government announced that a budget rebalancing should be carried out. At the time when the Transfer Coordination Act found out how much there was, there was a billion savings since it was calculated in tolars, it would bring the Social Transfers Act to the state budget. These are the things that need to be repeated again and again with Social Democrats supporting a law that will raise the child's allowance by 8.6%. And what was mentioned in relation to 12% is precisely explained, 3.6% is legally established regular valorisation under the Transfer Coordination Act. This would have happened if the government had now passed this law on increasing child support or had failed to bring it. What remains an open question is still if we care for families and demographics, as we had heard before, why we then forgot to harmonise other transfers, which are also subject to one-year harmonisation, with, I would say, the disabled mechanism of valorisation, I have already said this twice today and will not say it in the third, but it is things that could be better solved. And those of you who spoke today about social appeal and I don't know what else, set up a respected government coalition, a mirror, who is the one who reacted so late, though, as it were. Social Democrats believe that the effects are, however, targeted at the most vulnerable groups of people, but they are not, for example, some other vulnerable groups, past single-member households without children, past single-parent families, multiple-child families. We should really consider whether any other family is at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u156	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today, in fact, we have been discussing mitigations for the third time for the consequences of inflation. I must say that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we have decided to support, in principle, this proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on parental protection and family benefits, because I think something is better than nothing at this point. But at the same time, of course, it is necessary to realize that this is actually done not even the first step, but only one of the wills may be shown to make matters really better. I am not going to repeat everything I said in the previous marriage, because I really think today this inflation of words is too severe, but something has to be said: at the moment the prices began to rise and, of course, when all the consequences of the price rise have not been calculated, people have responded on their own. Many times, older recipients of pensions do not complain in some way, but they do complain about how they actually have to care for young people now. So, first of all, she reacted to the intra-family balance between people. Intergenerational solidarity is more about helping young people than helping young people. So, we've started to turn the world around again, just like it's been done a number of times. In some ways, instead of a social state, socialism and solidarity of civil society have begun to be promoted in their own ingenuity. Why? Because not only will people who receive a child supplement get 8.4% more, the problem is those who will pass these thresholds this year, but will not be able to prove them in some way, to enforce them, but will only be able to do so in the following year. It's not going to help here. It will help those who are already in it. But if we do the math, we also see that it's going in some way that not everyone gets the same benefit of this mitigation, this correction. Some simulations that should have been made elsewhere have been made, however, and it can be seen that, in fact, those families with multiple children will be worse off than those with one child, because it is calculated at 99% of the average wage and the threshold or the poverty line is moving, now the big question is how many people will be on that side of the border at that time. In the Liberal Democracy, as we say, while supporting the above-mentioned rise in the child supplement, we believe that systemic measures are still missing. I hope that the Government will be able to design them and to present them to the National Assembly soon so that we can discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Petty Officer on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Well-known, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament. The law that we are considering today provides additional budgetary resources mainly for those coming from low-income families. On the basis of this, children’s allowances are already obtained to a greater extent by those with lower income. The ones with the highest aren't getting them. Slovenia has decided on such a system. So it's about raising child support. Together at the beginning of this year, this will amount to about 12% of the increase in child allowances, so that each of our citizens who has children can also calculate how much this will be. Whether it's one euro or two. I can tell you that this is not what the previous message was, but that citizens should calculate for themselves and I am sure they can also figure out what 12% of 100 euros is. The solutions are true because they are the real target population. This will in fact not cause inflationary movements nor have any specific side effects. I hope that no one will remember again and say that this is a measure that threatens public finances. Whether it is timely or not, I will abstain or abstain. The New Slovenia Group prefers to read a message from a family initiative dealing with Family Policy. The government responded quickly and effectively to this problem by proposing an increase in the child supplement. It is estimated that an increase in the child allowance for all families in the first and second income classes, i.e. up to 25% of the average wage per family member, will cover more or less the increase in the expenditure on food for children due to recent incentives. For about half of the families, the increase in these expenses will cover up to half of them and slightly less for the others. These measures cover higher food costs, higher costs of municipal services, which unfortunately have occurred, we believe that it is entirely unjustified because of cartel arrangements and because public infrastructure is not being maintained at the right level. We can say the following about the other transfers. If we were to abolish the law that was discussed today on transfers, we would, of course, lose the largest families and also those who have a financial allowance for maternity leave, parental leave and child support. So that law brought a substantial increase in child support. About the poverty threshold. We must look with tenderness at the citizens who are below the threshold of poverty, and this is the responsibility of the Government and our country. However, not such an easy expression. The criteria for setting the threshold of poverty are internationally defined and in this regard Slovenia is classified as a solid place, which does not mean that we are not working to reduce or eliminate poverty. This is the mission of all of us. The proposal of this marriage, you say it's like it. Yeah. It's nice and useful and it's real. And then what is wrong with this law? He's good. This is why the New Slovenia Group will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! As inflation gets deeper and deeper into people's lives, it is felt most by families with young and school-bound children. And the more it is, the more they feel it. Therefore, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the Government has responded positively with the proposal for this law. Especially because it generates significant inflation, increasing food stimulation. However, we must say, if we are honest, at least three governments, at least three mandates have so far been very intensively affected by changes to the constitutional law on family protection and parental benefits to the goal of being burdened to the maximum extent possible by parents with children, and that decision-making for more children is also stimulated through this. The most potentially drastic change in terms of parental benefits was in 1997. Therefore, for the first time in 2000, the trend of long-term birth was halted. Since 2000, the painting has only begun to improve. And thank God so much that in 2007 she already exceeded the death rate. Which is just to say hello. I mean, investing in extra money for this purpose, which we are investing in by this law, is a real investment in good. And we can only support that such a resource should be diverted to individual budgetary resources. If we are sincere about the issue of the Parental Protection Act and family benefits, we are not so small. With all the encouraging measures for both employers and parents, we can, on the one hand, be a shining model in the European Union, so that we must be correct on this issue. What all governments have so far invested in this awareness of the generation picture and the birth picture in our country in at least three mandates. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as we say, we will be happy to support the bill unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by colleague Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u162	Thank you. Finns don't have to do what we have to do right now. There the food was spread by 1%, in Slovenia by 12%, 13%. There's a problem. Clearly, if basic necessities of life are being irritated, the standard of living is decreasing and people are in distress. Not all of them, especially those with the lowest income. And here the risk of children in such miles is highest. Therefore, this law, which we have today as the third in the package on the table, can be called the Dragan Action, the Dragon Act. Whether he's good is a question. Whether additional resources are sufficient is a question. A colleague of Žgajner’s mentioned earlier the average family who would become part of this measure was added, and she spoke of one euro in the average family. I'm going to give an example for that kid's allowance that's going to happen in the most endangered grade, eighth grade, that's those who have up to 15% of the average wage. In the first child, this child supplement will increase by 4 euros and 53 cents. If such a family has two children, the other child will be entitled to 4,99 euros. And if she has three children, the third child will be entitled to 5 euros and 44 cents. One child will thus be given a month’s opportunity to receive about six litres of milk from you, Mrs Žgajner, up to about three kilograms of bread per month by this supplement, which we will vote on today. In short, for the most endangered 5.6 litres of milk per month or about 3 kilograms of bread per month. Bread and milk will be so valuable. Together, Mr Stroves says she'll get a family of as much as €350 if she has three children. But let me explain that, as has already been pointed out today, not all those with very low incomes are cared for. Parents or someone else, not just parents, there are foster parents here, they're not talked about. We know that the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act excludes foster parents or those with single parents or children with another extramarital partner. They don't, but they drink different milk and they eat different bread. The material costs for the Ombudsman and for the Ombudsman, say from 1 January 2007 and today and tomorrow, amount to exactly EUR 243.12. And these kids have to drink and eat, too. Material expenses for a child who goes to school, for example. They don't change. Here we patch, we see that we are patching, and that the systemic approach is not that this panic that has happened to us, not to the Finns, I emphasise, we are justly correcting it, but the question is, if right. If there is no new discrimination, where the principle of child protection is established, the constitutional principle is violated or forgotten. And finally, Mr. Stroves, please tell you, now is the time to be born, now are such "fine" trends, now we are correcting the parental allowance and the children's allowance, now let Slovenian families give birth, let them hurry, because trends, incentives are good because we have increased our growth. But growing up, you wanted to say what we created in this government, as if these growths were happening on a political level, and that they were the merit of one government, and let's say one such measure. I think you're gonna have to apologize again or go somewhere. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much, President, colleague and colleague! The parliamentary group of the democratic party of pensioners of Slovenia will support the law. This law is in fact the only one in a package of social transfers that would not undermine the right of all family benefits if a law on the termination of the law on the coordination of transfers in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. That's why it's the right thing to do before the marriage is over. Children's allowances will be higher, which means a modest correction of the situation of families with children, especially because families, these families will generally not benefit from the Income Law because tax relief is increasing. Of course, it is not possible to challenge the good intentions of this bill and its effects will be positive, especially if we look at them within all the laws adopted in this area in recent years. And that's why he's gonna use our support. I also think that the effects would be much higher if there were no incitement and high inflation, if, for example, inflation as we had in 2006, was accepted. Well, anyway, the monthly benefit will be less to me than the benefit of a bum who gets into his hat every day, more than a family gets with three children in a month. But at a time when modesty is needed, when problems are great, that too will be something. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. We will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the next item of the agenda. Strange are the ways of gentlemen. And we're moving on to 5. Agenda item - To defend the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. The hearing is under urgent procedure, and I would like to inform you that we have quite a bit of time available in the context of the debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I see the government's representatives have come to the hall. Welcome to the National Assembly Hall. Mag. Tomaž Jeršič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to briefly introduce the novel or the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the company law. It's two segments of change. The first part of the amendments concerns the European Union directive on cross-border mergers. Let me briefly present this segment of change. The Directive lays down specific rules for cross-border mergers of capital companies. In particular, for the limited liability companies, the limited shareholding companies and the limited liability companies. The provisions of the Directive relating to co-decision of workers will be regulated by a specific law within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The purpose of cross-border mergers is to allow all companies, irrespective of their nationality, through material status transformation, to adapt to market conditions and to achieve optimal business. For companies spread their business beyond the limits of their seats. The provisions of the Company Act 1 applicable to the merger of national companies shall apply mutatis mutandis to cross-border mergers of capital companies. These are therefore all essential principles, such as the principle of the protection of creditors and the prohibition of the deterioration of the property position of shareholders or shareholders of companies involved in cross-border mergers. The legal protection of the interests of shareholders of the shares of companies involved in cross-border mergers is ensured through different institutes. One of them is a common cross-border merger plan covering all relevant information, such as company data, exchange rate, impact on workers, employees, bid to take over shares and so on. In addition, the management or management body should also draw up a report explaining the legal and economic consequences of cross-border mergers for holders of shares, creditors and employees in companies that merge across borders. The auditors of the cross-border merger must draw up a written audit report. In the second segment, we propose to amend the three articles. Article 248 first. We know that this article speaks of fictitious transactions, and so far the text of the law speaks of the nullity of business in which companies provide legal assistance to acquire their own shares. We extend the dictatorship of this sentence to business with comparable effect. So, the field of vanity is expanding here. We know that this article was abused in several segments, so such a dictatorship. We're going in 330. The Company 1 Act, which refers to the transfer of assets from companies that exceed 25% of the balance sheet total of companies. Even this article has not been precisely defined by our assessment so far, the legal opinions have been shared, the amendment is definitely regulated and the legal representatives who violate this Article without the consent of the Assembly are additionally penalised. And the last change, this is Article 592. Although it does not fall under the same chapter, but falls under the heading of merger and division of companies, it refers indirectly to Article 248, which refers to fictitious transactions. This Article primarily protects creditors in mergers of companies. It is the case that the company which, in order to acquire shares before the merger of the target company, has placed these shares or promised their flag, is said to have served a fictitious business outside the property of the target company, must receive not only three-quarters of the support of the shareholders of one and another company, but also the consent of the creditors. These consents of creditors shall be divided into three parts but shall be achieved cumulatively. The article refers to the consent of creditors, which means that 75% of creditors have to give their consent to such a merger. At the same time, any creditor whose claims exceed 5% of the company's obligations must give its consent to such a merger. Above all, it seems reasonable and important that they give their consent to such a merger also to the employees. This article defines employees as potential creditors in the event that the company ceases on the day of merger. So these are potential claims, potential claims [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on the termination of the company. [[...]] So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u167	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give my word to the President of France [[Ferry]] To Horvath to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. At its 21st urgent meeting, on 17.1. this year, the Committee of the Economy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies. Meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of the proposer, namely the Ministry of Economy, the Legislative and Legal Service of the Dražvna chorus, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. On the basis of this opinion, amendments were drafted in cooperation with the expert service of the Committee, the proposer and the Legal and Legislative Service, which were unanimously adopted by the Committee and incorporated in the amended proposal of the law. The Committee also took into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and, with the support of the members of the Committee, adopted the amendment to the amendment to Article 22 of the Law. The amendment is short, it is a single word, instead of "or" is "in", but it is very important substantive, because it actually means strengthening the use of Slovenian. The All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders forwarded written proposals and comments to the Committee at its own meeting for further amendment to the Company Act. In agreement with the proposer and in support of the debate of some members of the Committee, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee of the National Economic Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw together representatives of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders and representatives of the interested public to prepare an amendment to the Act on Economic Companies and the Law on takeover.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u169	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u170	Your Honors are here! I would like all the Members and Members present to know what we are talking about right now and what we are deciding, and I do not want to humiliate anyone. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has announced the fight against the tycoons. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia was unable to answer the question asked by its colleague Boštjan Zagorec, who are the tycoons in our country. What we're doing - we're participating in this imaginary or even substantive, which I think is more right, war against government-grade tycoons that they don't want to show. According to a macro-economic assessment, we are participating in a war against successful Slovenian economies or economic policy holders in our country. There's no doubt someone's gonna pull the wrong one. It could happen that we'll replace the government in the fall. Capital owners, successful Slovenian companies, cannot draw worse. The fact is that, according to my assessment, the government's game will be carried by workers and workers of Slovenian companies. I would like to point out that the account will be borne by those who are already most burdened, and those who make up the middle layer and today in some Slovenian parade horses can be praised with 13th salary, because precisely because of the account of this, under the terms "wars" they will lose 13th salary and other regression. I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has entered this war through the Banking Act, the result of which, as we know, foreign banks can provide banking services that Slovenian commercial banks cannot provide. It continued in the Takeover Act, where we found that the ATVP, so the agency can monitor the movement of capital of Slovenian companies, foreign takeovers will not be able to monitor. We have found that in two laws, unfortunately, we have placed in a better, more priority position of foreign takeovers vis-à-vis Slovenian takeovers. Once again, I ask who will bear the price of this pointless war, which the Government calls a Taiwanese war, and I personally am convinced that it is exclusively a personal offense between the President of the Government and the owners of Slovenian companies. Today it continues with the Company Act. The government representative said it was a struggle against connected persons. And it will continue, as is already happening, with the tax burden on Slovenian companies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is prepared, unfortunately, to go so far as to send tax inspectors to Slovenian companies where they try to politicize them in this way. And who will bear the burden again, the cost of all this? Slovenian worker or Slovenian worker. And how is it abroad, the "institution" that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia always gives us as an example when it is in its best interest? Takeovers are taking place in developed and economics. The acquisitions also took place in our country, the basis of which was Slovenian legislation, and still it is. But the basic dilemma in this area of developed market economies has always been whether the acquisition price is acceptable to the undertaking taken over, to their owners, or not. So governments tended to go to higher acquisition prices. But what is happening in Slovenia under the influence, the active influence of the President of the Government in the field of economy in our country? It wonders or creates what is called political psychosis. Who is protected in the set of these four laws? It is exclusively about individual disputes between the President of the Government and the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, this automatically puts foreign capital in a better, better position. Is this in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia? I don't think so. And who will pay the price for this nonsense, whether it be a misunderstanding or a war, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unable to create a dialogue? He's a Slovenian worker. In the framework of the Company Act, one really important change would be needed: the protection of small shareholders. The Company Act indicates protection under Article 384, a small shareholder protection worker who can be exported if they have less than 10%, permits or speaks the Takeover Act. To the Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, referred to as Lipa, protection or proposal of Article 68 of the Law on takeovers, i.e. the effect that would actually protect the Slovenian and small owners. [[..]] However, I fear and consider that the whole matter is very pointless and will only be reflected on the account and on the shoulders of Slovenian workers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u171	Mr. Pece, thank you very much. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u172	Your Honors are here! In the world, there is a trend in the capital integration of companies in growth. This is due to globalisation, which leads to growing global competition. In this way, companies want to gain synergies and strategic advantage over companies that are their competitors. The European Union is part of the global economy and therefore it also regulates this area. Directive 2005/56/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 refers to cross-border mergers of capital companies and refers to corporate legal issues of cross-border mergers. The aim of ZGD-1A is to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with this provision of the European Union. In this alignment with the Directive, the proposal for a law retains all the essential principles of law and the prohibition of the deterioration of the property position of shareholders or shareholders of companies involved in the conversion. The novelty of the bill governs cross-border mergers involving Slovenian shareholders, a management company or a limited liability company. In doing so, all relevant internal state provisions on mergers of companies and the protection of creditors and minority members of companies shall be largely maintained in accordance with the Directive. The aim of the bill is also to correct minor shortcomings in the regulation of the entrepreneur and to provide an adequate legal basis for the electronic book of decisions in a single company with limited liability and to establish a register of operating conditions. However, the aim of the bill is also to provide mechanisms for the protection of employees and creditors of companies involved in status transformation procedures if the acquiring company acquires the means of acquisition on a credit basis and exceeds its own capital obligations under this heading. We also support efforts in this law aimed at improving existing and new legislation with a view to improving the competitiveness of the economy and eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the law is good and that is why we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Ferri Horvat will give a statement or presentation of the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group supports the amendment of the Company Act, which we are considering, both in the work which constitutes the transposition of the relevant Directive of the European Union and in particular in the work which provides greater protection for creditors and workers in the event of cross-border merger of companies. In doing so, I should like to point out that we are aware that with these solutions, all the problems, especially the protection of small shareholders, are not resolved, but we expect that what is envisaged in the Government's legislative programme is a recast, a broader amendment, both the Company Act and the takeover Act, which has also been reaffirmed by the Ministry of Economy, we expect to see this happen more effectively in the wake of this envisaged next novelty. As in the past, in the Social Democrats' Group, we have repeatedly pointed out the insufficient protection of small shareholders. Unfortunately, warnings and proposals have not been sufficiently taken into account. This issue has also been discussed in the current consideration of the amendment to the company law. We therefore support the initiative of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders and adopt the decision of the Committee on the Economy. With the support of the law, we expect the proposer, that is, the Government, to attract representatives of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, Chambers and representatives of other interested public to the next or subsequent amendments of the Company Act and the Takeover Act. That's what the government representative at the board meeting assured us. The participation of small shareholders, especially employees, not only means higher levels of culture of economic and social regulation, but increases motivation for belonging to the company and better work. It is therefore not a coincidence that countries with a long-standing market and capitalist tradition practice working participation in ownership and profit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u175	Thank you, too. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Dr Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, everyone else present! In the LDS, we support the proposal for a law which mainly relates to the alignment of the acquis with the provisions of the Cross-Border Merger Directive. However, we warn the Government that in the future, it should try to intervene these laws in the National Assembly in a timely manner so that there will be no delays such as in this particular case. The harmonisation should be carried out by 15.12.2007. And because of such delays and haste, we also miss out on a number of opportunities. Because we are assessing that the content of this law mainly points to compliance with the Directive of the European Union, but it has not taken the opportunity to improve and correct other matters now that we have this opportunity, as for example, to the greater extent protected by small shareholders, which has already been discussed. We are therefore disappointed at the LDS, as it is said, because the Government of Amendments has not used the law to correct the protection of small shareholders, but, as it is said, they are reduced only to comply with the acquis of the European Union. However, we support solutions that further protect creditors and prohibit the deterioration of the asset position of shareholders or shareholders involved in material status transformation. We also support the mechanisms for the protection of workers and creditors of companies in the state-of-the-art transformation process, but we regret that these proposed solutions relate only to mergers, but there are no solutions to protect small shareholders in other cases of transformation. We would also expect more important changes in the area of fictitious legal affairs, because the proposed solution is virtually the same as it is now in force. In the LDS, we therefore assess that the most important change is the one that enables creditors and workers, in certain cases, to make a decision in the event of a vertical merger upwards and in the case of vertical merger downwards. In the LDS, we support the objective of the proposed law, namely to provide mechanisms and to protect workers and creditors of companies involved in the recast process, if any of these companies are burdened with obligations greater than their own capital. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act will be supported by the LDS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolič will give the position of the Ambassador Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Well-known Vice-President, secretary of staff, colleagues and colleagues. In the New Slovenia Group, we see no reason not to support the proposal for a novel on companies, as the changes that contain solutions to stop tycoonisation are improving the protection of workers and creditors, and the European Directive on cross-border mergers is also being transposed into Slovenia's legal order. The Directive on cross-border mergers facilitates the participation of companies in the European Economic Area and facilitates the transformation across borders, thus improving European competitiveness in the world. Cross-border mergers and acquisitions were marked to the greatest extent by the 1990s, when the world came into a era of globalisation, deregulation and economic expansion, with which integration beyond the borders of the state has risen unbelievably. The proposed novelty will allow all companies to adapt to the market situation, achieve optimal business and increase the competitiveness of businesses. Takeovers, joint investments and mergers have not only been carried out for a long time within the borders of the country to which these companies legally belong, as companies are expanding their business around the world. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this novel will help prevent the tankers we have witnessed in the last period. Abuse will be prevented and the bad consequences associated with takeovers and their financial participation will be limited. Any business will be null and void, or will be deemed null and void, by which the company will secure an advance for the acquisition of the same company. Today we can see that legislation allowed for the enrichment of certain individuals and the exhaustion of the target society. The revised law will define more transactions for fictitious transactions that will be null and void. Fictitious transactions will no longer be only legal transactions by which the company provides an advance or a loan to acquire shares of this company, but also all other transactions with comparable effect. The amendment of this novel will introduce various guarantees, consent requirements and company acquisition through third parties. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also working to establish the same conditions for all economic operators in a democratic process and to protect small shareholders, ensure their effective functioning and reduce the risk of capital markets. With a view to protecting creditors and prohibiting any deterioration of the assets of shareholders or shareholders of companies, this bill in the New Slovenia Group will also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u179	Thank you very much. My colleague Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected secretary with a co-worker, a colleague and a colleague! This bill brings to the Slovenian legal order a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border mergers of capital companies, which obliges Member States to adopt the necessary rules to comply with this Directive. Economic companies use different concentration transactions to adapt the market situation and achieve optimum business. They improve their business through acquisitions, joint investments and mergers. Concentration transactions have not only been carried out for a long time within the borders of the country to which these companies legally belong, nor are companies stopping at the borders of the European Union or the European Economic Area, but they have expanded their business around the world. Member States are therefore obliged to adopt rules on the basis of which cross-border mergers can be implemented in all Member States under a procedure consistent with that Directive, which will result in the no longer costly and complex implementation of cross-border mergers. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal of the law, as it preserves all the essential principles of law, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] State, material and status changes, such as the principle of the protection of creditors and the prohibition of the deterioration of the assets of shareholders. [[...]] The protection of creditors is also reflected in the provision imposing that creditors of a company established in the Republic of Slovenia who are involved in cross-border mergers must be informed directly in the manner of enforcement of their rights, provided that that company transfers its assets to a company based on cross-border mergers established in another Member State and that the sum of the basic capital is linked to the reserves of the company resulting from the transfer of the merger, less than the sum of these capital categories of the Slovenian company transferring its assets. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also support other articles or articles and the objectives of the proposal for a law aimed at providing mechanisms, insurance for workers and creditors of companies involved in the process [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] reshaping where any of these companies are burdened with obligations greater than its own capital. [[...]] We support an article that also defines fictitious transactions. We believe that the sensible provision under which the company provides advances or loans to acquire shares or another variable effect transaction is null and void. It is right that legal assistance is substantially extended to the provision of various guarantees, financial assistance, via related companies and so on. We also agree with the fact that the company needs the consent of the Assembly to transfer more than 25% of the company's assets and that this restriction does not affect the external powers of the legal person or that the restriction has no legal effect on third parties. It is important, however, that this restriction also means the existence of the liability of the legal representative who concluded such a contract without the necessary decision of the assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this bill because we believe that the guardians that the law brings are good and positive for our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. In the parliamentary group, we will indeed support the proposed amendments to the law. We estimate that there are many good solutions, of course there are still many shortcomings. The protection of employees and creditors in the reshaping of companies must be highlighted among good solutions. Among those where there are still significant shortcomings, however, the protection of small shareholders should be highlighted. To a large extent, this is also due to the fact that the appropriate association of small shareholders and certain other institutions in the preparation of the law has probably not been or has apparently not been involved in this area, so that there is likely to be a lot of room for improvement. However, we are in the parliamentary group really skeptical of what some here like to point out that such a law will prevent tycoonism. You know, tycoonism happens in different ways. And in these days we are witnessing another scandalous economic story where a state-owned company, para-national property, 80% of SOD's property and 10% of KAD's, sold an elite land on Bled near Lake Blejska to a private company. And this same private company was guaranteed by a company that also sold it to him. This is about Casino Bled, which, as I said, is 90% of parastatal property. What KAD and SOD representatives do in these Slovenian companies. How irresponsible they are, obviously there is no longer any law that can prevent this. That is why, in the Group of Members, we are really skeptical that this is the only way to eradicate the typo. More responsible behaviour of state representatives in supervisory institutions and less clienteleism will be necessary to achieve this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u184	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. When we have been talking all day about topics that are somehow, at least most of us, closer and talking about social well-being, we are now moving away from this to perhaps a bit more dry topics, which are also important for our everyday life. I will very briefly present the position of the DeSUS Group on this law in both dimensions. First, as regards the more technical dimensions or implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border integration. Let me say that we support this for a very simple reason. Although it may not yet be as everyday as it is in a more developed world and a world with a longer capitalist tradition, we understand that it is impossible to manage successfully, that it is impossible to manage successfully without concentration and without reaching the world market. If, and this is the purpose of this implementation, this will contribute to reducing costs if this contributes to faster and better technological transfer, if this contributes to better management, cost reduction, greater market share and everything else, which we promise from this, then this implementation, although it is a few days behind schedule, is necessary and will also receive our confirmation. The second part is part that has slightly more political implications. We have already heard about this today, it is about trying, as far as possible, to limit what we like to call tycunization, to try to prevent excessive, enormous social differences and to try to limit what is now more and more present between us: to limit attempts at capital, ownership peaks actually to saturate all of our society, to saturate this society with their interests, their needs and their power, and then the mechanisms to establish some other interests will be very weak and the question is how they will be able to achieve them at all. Since in both parts, i.e. the part where the Directive is being implemented and in the other part where it is a matter of preventing fictitious transactions or allowing them to prove their invalidity, the proposal also speaks of how to protect those who may suffer harm in similar transactions is supported by the DesSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Ambassador Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! I will be very brief, but I hope that I am very understanding for those who accompany us, for citizens and citizens. It happened that people got a loan to buy shares and a flag to that loan that they bought those shares with were shares that weren't even theirs. Ten people were given a personal loan to take over businesses, and these ten people were loaned for a loan, so they made something they do not have. That this has happened and this has been clearly proven, is nonsense in the state of law, but we all know that this has happened and happened. Today we are talking about the Company Act and I am reading Article 3, which says: "Article 248, paragraph 1, is amended to read: the legal transaction by which the company provides an advance or a loan to acquire shares or a second transaction with a comparable effect is null and void." This is an encouraging article for us members of the Slovenian National Party and that is why we will support this law. However, many truths have been told from the first speaker today to the last, and it is true that nothing helps if we are kind and generous today - I will again use the term I already used - "mild thirsty" for something that is possible or is still going on. If we adopt the Law or the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies, we must be aware that this has led forward, regardless of who will be in power after the elections. No matter what! It is a matter of protecting small shareholders, as respected colleague Lucky Friend has already told on the committee itself and other colleagues, it is a matter of respect for the rule of law. We can't protect the loan with something we can buy with this loan, and it's not yet in our possession. I do not understand how this could have happened, and how we, in the National Assembly, 90 of us, accepted or allowed to do so. So I'm going to start criticizing us first and continue with the government, whatever it is - it's unacceptable and incomprehensible. And by adopting the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Companies, and in particular Articles 3 and 4, I stress that they are correcting Articles 248 and 330 of the Old Law, we hope to take the right path, which also leads finally to the right goal. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the company law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, as part of the vote in half an hour, at 19.25 p.m. So, I'm breaking this agenda. I stress once again: we will continue the meeting by vote at 7 p.m. and 25 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u188	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities in accordance with established practice. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 8 of the Social Democrats Group. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment, and this concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended draft law were not adopted at second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting on the law. There are 63 Members and Members present, all Members of Parliament, 63 of them, and no one opposed him. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on a protective supplement. We continue with the second reading, namely by deciding on the amendments tabled, first of all by the 20th Article, to which the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS MPs have tabled an amendment. Can we get to the vote on the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Explanation of voice. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please. Explanation on behalf of the DeSUS Group, fellow Member Franz Žnidaršič, is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We will vote against this amendment even though we have given our signature. In line with the explanation I gave at the time of the debate on this amendment, we understood the drafting of the amendment in the sense that it would allow the already adopted solution to be implemented on the Committee. And since the amendment was prepared differently, it was signed in good faith on a topic that is not as we would like, and because of this - our signature is no longer or our consent to this amendment is no longer and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Parliamentary colleague Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. The content of the amendment was explained in detail in the debate and does not show that I am renewing it. I believe you've informed each other about the content. I would just like to say this: if the amendment is adopted, it will not be possible for persons with disabilities to be coordinated with them under the applicable law that we are adopting today. For the most part, we considered that this was a bad solution because it was a group that needed coordination. If the amendment is adopted and non-compliance is established, we can - if the amendment is not adopted and non-compliance is found, we will be able to do so in the third reading. Therefore, who believes that disability must also be coordinated because it is a group that needs it, he will vote against the amendment tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? In my own name. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The beneficiaries of invalidity pensions, which have so far been subject to the system's pension and disability insurance laws, are the categories of people who are practically the most exposed and most at risk in this system. And I am convinced that the country should coordinate, at the expense of all the expenditure it has from public funds, but also this transfer to those people who are part of the system as such, disability insurance as well as the security allowance, as well as the pension and as the other two allowances that we have returned. I can only say this: keep a credible face in front of a category of people who are truly exposed. Of course, I will oppose this amendment if it comes to rejecting it, then it would probably be necessary, we will see what the Legislative and Legal Service has to say, with a small correction of the harmonisation amendment to go to Article 20. Thank you very much. I ask everyone to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 26. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 25. Applicant - Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Explanation of voice. On behalf of the Group of Members. Comrade Run, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Only so that I may have a clear conscience that Members and Members of Parliament know the content and that they may have a feeling of bad conscience, those who will vote against the amendment. It is a group of citizens and citizens of Slovenia who, like all others, have paid contributions to the Slovenian Pension Fund, and for unknown reasons in the amendments and additions to the legislation they have not been given the same right to widow's pension as other citizens and citizens. I think, as my colleague Brenčič said, that this injustice must be abolished, and I ask you to vote for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I am opening the procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Since I can see that there are more interested, please report. My friend Brenčič, thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, colleague Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group will support this amendment for a simple reason, because the actual solution, which is discriminatory in the law in force, was created when at least we expected, when no word was said in the scope of harmonisation of the changes in that year in 2005. It is also a very small number of affected people and the financial burden is certainly negligible, on the one hand, and on the other hand a great benefit for the group of pensioners belonging to the category of single women at the age where the poverty rate has reached 40% according to verifiable data. That is why it is high time to resolve this matter. In view of the fact that the Government has not expressed any will to make this happen by means of a special law after a reduced procedure, today is an opportunity to settle this and thus to remedy the injustice that has been done and to settle the debt to the affected, which will in any case benefit less time than it should, and many of these, at a later age, are too late to receive this right, even if we are going to legalise it today. I therefore recommend, appeal and ask those present in this Chamber to support this exception today and thus resolve this very important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I am opening a procedure for the declaration of reasons to the vote on my own behalf. Here you go, please. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. By adopting this amendment, no matter who proposes it, we shall practically eliminate such a fundamental violation of equality before the law of a small proportion of our pensioners, especially widows' pensioners. In my discussion with the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, I found that they also consider this to be such an elemental intervention that it should simply not take place further in this discriminatory relationship. All pension recipients are practically entitled to a 15% widow's pension if they choose to maintain their pension. That's the only thing we don't allow. I don't know, at least I'm telling my own group to follow me. Let us support and fulfill these people’s basic expectations. Let's support this amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-22-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 27, for 35. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I note that, in the second reading, the National Assembly has only adopted an amendment to Article 20 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] I therefore note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. However, I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, all present, and 64 are in favour, all against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour of 64, no one objected to the bill. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the company law is under consideration. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, all the Members present, namely 62, and there was no objection to the bill. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and I conclude this item on the agenda. I also conclude the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night, everyone.
