ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u1	Good morning, good afternoon, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following Members are unable to attend today: colleague Roberto Battelli, colleague Zvonko Černač by 5 p.m., colleague Matjaž Han, colleague of Feri Horvat, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Dr. Marko Pavliha, colleague of Alojz Sok and colleague Bogomir Zamernik. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety of Road Traffic, under the ordinary procedure. I'm informing you that we have 4 hours and 45 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. With us is Minister of Defense, Dragutin Mate, your word, please. Excuse me, Minister of the Interior, my mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. I've worked in the defense for so many years, it's probably a mistake, but it's no big deal. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a amendment to the Road Safety Act, which seeks to achieve certain effects in improving transport safety in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we want to implement certain decisions of the Constitutional Court and introduce the EU Directive into the Slovenian legal order. If I first touch on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is proposed in the proposal to repeal Article 92(8) of the ZVCP, for which the Constitutional Court ordered it to be repealed, and we will therefore enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, it shall comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the abolition of the competence with regard to traffic accidents with a minor risk. With the proposal before you, the European Union Directive on driving licences is introduced into the Slovenian legal order. This will introduce in Slovenia a directive which was adopted last year. We will introduce both the form and the content of the driving licence, which is intended to take a uniform form throughout the European Union. This will give us a driver's license in the form of a polycarbonate card. This will significantly increase the security of the driving licence document, reduce the possibility of falsification of this document, at the same time establish a new register for the issue of driving licences and arrange for the central issue of driving licences, about as is the case for the ID card and some other documents. At the same time, we have also proposed a change in the law to that point which speaks of the cancellation of the driver's licence. So far, citizens have had to withdraw their driving licence in the Official Journal, which was linked to certain costs. This will no longer be necessary or proposed. The procedure for revocation of the driving licence will be facilitated and, above all, the costs for citizens in this area will be reduced. At the same time, any loss of a driver's licence due to the renewal of the register will be made available to all users who will have access to the e-government and, of course, after protected connections as foreseen. In particular, it should be noted that when a new driving licence is introduced, it will not be necessary to replace the old driving licence immediately. This will remain in force and the law specifies the period during which it will be necessary to change or change driving licences. Most will remain in force as specified in the driving licence. And another important point. The date until which the driving licence is valid or until when it is valid will remain as stated in the driving licence. It will only be that driving licences must be replaced every so many years, in accordance with the Directive. While we are aware that the increase in penalties affects traffic safety only for a certain period of time, we believe that the measures proposed in this law are necessary in this regard. The experience we have in both Slovenia and the European Union shows that the increase in certain penalties and also in criminal matters has a certain effect on transport safety. We therefore believe that it is right to propose such effects in this law. We therefore propose to raise some penalties and criminal points for offences which have the most significant and most frequent influence or cause traffic accidents in the Republic of Slovenia. These are mainly offences: driving under the influence of alcohol, other dangerous substances, large speeding in settlements, driving in the opposite direction on motorways, solar sequestration, braking, other acts that have a significant impact on road safety and endanger traffic safety such as, say, irregular overtaking and so on. It also introduces an additional possibility for the driver to be seized or detained for the worst traffic offences committed under the influence of illicit substances and primarily under the influence of alcohol. It is also proposed to extend certain powers [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Directors who will be able to control road traffic on municipal roads. [[...]] On conclusion, I propose that, due to the effects of the law that we are expecting to amend it, in view of the small number of amendments tabled at this meeting, we shall, if possible, also carry out the third reading and adopt the law. I also propose that you impose on the Ministry that we also publish, as a result of major changes, the writing or the purified text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I apologize to you again for the misrepresentation. I inform Members and Members that the Minister will leave us in the course of the debate due to international obligations. However, both State Secretarys, Dr. Peter Verlich and Mag, will participate in the meeting. Zinraj Bell. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the proposal for a law treated the Transport Committee as a parent labour force. I therefore ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Josip Bajc, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u4	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 26th meeting, on 12.2., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for legislative procedure. On 14.11.2007, on the basis of Article 122(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of Social Democrats requested that a general discussion be held on the proposal for a law. At its 34th meeting, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general discussion on the draft law and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on road safety is a suitable basis for further consideration. Within a time limit set by 30.1.2008, the members of the Committee, by the Group of Social Democrats, submitted a proposal to extend the agenda item of the 26th meeting of the Committee on Transport to make a request for a public presentation before the second reading of the proposal to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. The proposal was not adopted at a meeting of the Committee. In the introductory words at the meeting of the Committee, the Minister of Transport Mag. Radovan Žerjav briefly presented the assessments, objectives and principles pursued by the proposal for a law relating to the reduction of traffic accidents with the worst consequences. These are mainly driving under the influence of alcohol and other dangerous substances, large speeding in the village, driving in the opposite direction on the highways, inadequate parking, solar sequestration and braking and other acts that endanger road safety. The bill also extends the powers of municipal editors to exercise control on municipal and other roads in settlements. The objectives of the proposed amendments to the law to allow for consistent effective road safety and adaptation to the directives of the European Union are to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 30.6.2005 and to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 23.11.2006. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly draws attention in particular to the nomotechnic approach which provides that one article of the novel is to be applied to several articles of the basic law. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made specific comments to each article of the bill. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups and by a fellow Member, Aurelio Juri. In a rather controversial debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the members of the committee discussed the appropriateness and inadequacy of individual fines and the appropriateness of the criminal points for individual offences. The majority of the discussers considered that the reduction of fines and penalty points for carriers was not appropriate, as it encouraged excessive burdens on roads by freight vehicles and non-compliance with the rules. They also considered that professional and non-professional drivers were placed in an unequal position before the law. The problem is also the cessation of parking in parking lots along highways, which will result in uncontrolled parking in settlements and in wild parking outside of regulated parking areas. The members of the Committee considered that the cause of a large number of accidents, except for irregular driving, driving under the influence of alcohol and other dangerous substances, including in poor state and local roads and often inadequate traffic signals. Many discussions were aimed at under-involved police in regulating traffic, its preventive role, the lack of education and education programmes for all road users and the lack of radar on individual roads. They felt that more and more police powers were being transferred to the municipal registrar, which was not staff or professionally qualified to take on such major tasks. They also highlighted the additional burden on the budgets of the municipalities, and the common definition of the members of the Committee was to ensure greater transport safety and, in particular, to reduce the number of traffic accidents with the worst results. The Committee of the National Transport Assembly adopted the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and an amendment by Mr Aurelia Juri to Article 6. After the final discussion on the articles of the law, the Committee's amendments, in accordance with Rule 128 of its Rules of Procedure, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, which is an integral part of this report, is prepared in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly is holding its 34th meeting on the first reading of the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will guide on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 26.2. I am thus putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Zares Group. I'm asking you to report to the debate. I'm opening the procedure. Member Aloise Posedel shall be included in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to Article 6 was tabled in the Group of Members. Indeed, we have submitted from the belief that this law is poorly regulated or that it is not in an equal position as an ordinary driver and that the positions of carriers are - those carrying out public transport. We have demonstrated this on the Committee and have also shown a number of examples showing that it is likely from several articles in this new bill that we can come to an assessment that this group of carriers has been so difficult, so strong, that such solutions are so strong, and that we are going to some ordinary drivers to raise penalties and the height of penalties and points. In several cases, however, we have such a situation and a solution in such a way that it is the privileged position of those who carry out public transport and who should be punished even more normally because it is their professional performance. In the debate itself, I think there were quite a few colleagues and colleagues who have discussed very positively for this law. Because we all know and we all want to stop this madman on Slovenian roads, that we are all also convinced that the real reasons that Mr Minister mentioned at the beginning of today have been identified and that we can all sort of align ourselves very quickly, which are the main problems. However, we regret the fact that the Committee's debate did not adopt the decision proposed by the Group of Social Democrats to have a public presentation before today's meeting. The rejection was justified by the fact that the general debate was held. However, some of the solutions that are in this law are also regarded by experts in this area as not the best and would probably be improved by a public presentation of opinions and then by further discussion. Improved in this part that it was very interesting and even if you read the report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which is ready for second reading, and the Chairman of the Transport Committee, Mr Josip Bajc, even wrote on page 3: "In a rather controversial debate on individual articles..." and then, "most debaters felt that the reduction of fines and penalty points for carriers was not appropriate, as it promotes excessive burden on freight vehicles and non-compliance with regulations. They also considered that professional and non-professional drivers were placed in an unequal position. The problem is also the cessation of parking licenses in parking lots along highways, resulting in uncontrolled parking in settlements and wild parking areas, but this is only written down," that most people thought so. And indeed, most of them pointed to that. She pointed out that the Ministry and the drafter of this law had probably succumbed to the pressure of the transport lobby; that even the penalties that had already been envisaged were now reduced; that we had given specific examples of what was happening in various areas of Slovenia and that neither the signalling nor the axle load for roads were respected; and that this was happening, however, insisted on such proposals for penalties. It is interesting, therefore, that it is very beautifully written in this minutes: "In a rather controversial debate, most debaters thought," but the vote was always as it had been agreed: 9:7, 9:5. Practically none of these, I am sure, and in the Group of Members we are sure that the well-intentioned proposals have not been taken into account. And in this debate, it has also been unnecessary or very unfair on the part of some coalition colleagues to warn those who oppose such solutions that we are against stopping the sea on our roads, that it is only a matter of delay. Far from it! We certainly want the seas to stop so that safety on our roads will be better. Therefore, we are confident that this drastic lifting will not help. Above all, we are sensitive to these changes that have taken place in the case of motorists. Look, there is no Slovenian municipality that has no problem parking trucks. It's a problem that's been going on for years and years, and that's being used by motorists because the Ministry has cancelled the license. We never got the right answer why the license for motorists had been revoked. We knew that even those municipalities that had common interstate parking facilities were there because they could park and park their own truck in their own backyard, with minimum conditions, or what was happening on municipal roads, or in public parking. That is why this solution is bad, and that is why we have tabled this amendment in order to level and not to place drivers in two categories; that is to say, those ordinary drivers and those involved in public transport. I therefore hope that there will be more obedience in today's debate and that this amendment, tabled by the Zares Group, will also be adopted by Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. But I'm reopening the application circuit. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. With regard to this article, which is the first one to be amended today, and which will also have to be monitored, how it is implemented in practice, I would ask who in fact is responsible in the Government for the implementation and control of road transport security under this law, because for several years now we have seen how transport and the Ministry of the Interior have been passing it on to each other and are sharing it in some way. For example, years ago, the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme 2007-2011 in the National Assembly, if I am not mistaken, was presented by the then Minister of Transport mags. Christmas. Today, the transport minister and the Minister of the Interior are in charge of this law, at least as we see it from the Government's decision. And what I'm interested in is, how is this work divided? What articles of this law will the Minister of the Interior follow in practice, for example, which articles of this law will the Minister of Transport accompany in practice? For it is precisely this which may further confuse the effectiveness of this law in practice when it is adopted. I want to know how both departments imagine that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. And Member Joseph Bajc is included in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Maybe just a word, two colleagues Posedel. We tried, together with the professional services, to sum up what was actually happening on the committee and actually it was a controversial debate. And just as you are now in this presentation of the positions of the Zares Group, most of the debaters have also talked about this unequal situation of the different players in transport, but after the vote was taken, and as you yourself have found out, this amendment has not been accepted, I think that one is similar and still in one or two articles of this law. With regard to the Committee's own debate with another, perhaps even in relation to this article, given that we define several areas in individual articles, I must say this. When it was said that for some categories, even the speech was that those with lower incomes should be credited with smaller ones, I will say, prescribed or threatened penalties, to the fact that certain offences and their threatened sentences are enormous or too high, because they also foresee a threefold increase in the fine imposed, as well as the number of points at stake which may eventually result in the termination of a traffic permit, it is my opinion that if these measures reduce the sea for at least a few lives, it is appropriate and timely to adopt this law. I also personally estimate that, in this particular amendment, it is not justified that there has been an 80 % increase in the mandate penalty, on the grounds that the carriers have not caused it, I think there have been more than 31 fatal traffic accidents here for the last two or three years. If they have caused only one, they are as guilty as those 500,000 or 600,000 drivers of passenger vehicles, which have caused possibly even less fatal traffic accidents.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. And a Member of the Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 29 June 2005, we discussed the amendment of the Road Safety Act in this mandate in the National Assembly. At that time, the novelty proposed a reduction in penalties for truck operators and an increase in the permitted axle pressure. The increase in axle pressure offers the possibility that our state roads, which have already been destroyed in one way or another, will continue to run heavier trucks from that date. In the parliamentary group, we called on the proposer to withdraw the amendment from the procedure. And we have also pointed out that in this law it is only a compromise of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a strong automotive lobby. That wasn't done. Today, we are listening to the Minister that road safety will be reduced if we impose penalties, if we introduce new driving licences and, above all, lift penalties, introduce new repressions. I don't think it'll help the safety of road traffic, and it won't reduce road fatalities. On Slovenian roads he dies a year for one class of children. And since I don't want to be critical, I want to make a criticism, which will also have a proposal, I would just like to walk on what we have proposed to this government, and it hasn't come true until today. The former Minister of Transport promised me that he would forward to the National Assembly, in this mandate, the legal matter which will be binding on motorists and will redirect this heavier transit cargo from road to rail. In our parliamentary group, we have noted the unacceptable fact that such large convoys of trucks are rolling along state roads. We also pointed out that it was unacceptable to allow for the overtaking of trucks, a truck - truck on highways. We have also pointed out that the State of the Republic of Slovenia has not allocated almost any resources to the maintenance of state roads in a decomposing state. We have also pointed out that, if we were to be like other European countries, we should already have legislation, for example, such as Austria's. This road safety law, however, has even experienced the fact that we have also abolished prevention. We have also abolished the world of education and education in road transport, which has made a significant contribution to this, and this government has done so to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u13	My colleague Lucky Friend, I am obliged to warn you: the debate on the law - colleague Happy, allow -, took place at the 34th regular meeting. [[...]] If I initially allow everyone to talk about the general debate again, we will lose the content of the amendment proposal. The amendment to Article 3 under paragraph 4 of the Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u14	Dear President! This amendment speaks of exactly what I mean to say that they have forgiven those who are the greatest causes. Truck lobby again, truck lobby again. You can laugh, gentlemen, but that's right. Until you provide the driver with the conditions for safe driving, there will be no safe driving. Roads, state roads, fall apart. But we're going to destroy the highways in a way that you do. But new constructions are just like they are. We know. And I would like to seek responsibility for the above mentioned, honourable Minister, for the persons responsible for this, and I agree with Mr Bevk, before asking you nicely who is responsible for the safety of our roads. Of course, we will not support this marriage. The well-intentioned amendments by the opposition, however, were all voted in principle - who is stronger.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I ask all future speakers to adhere to the rules of the game that we have concluded. Once again, the general debate was held in the framework of the 34th regular meeting. Today we are a step forward, we are discussing amendments and improvements to the law under the proposed amendments. Does anyone else want a word under Article 6? Then I'll reopen the procedure. Here you go, please. Member Robert Hrvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So we're talking about the amendment to Article 6, and I'm going to start by saying that I won't support it. Look, the intention of the proposer of this law is clear: to reduce mortality on our roads. The formerly, the applicant spoke in explanation of this amendment to give drivers in two groups or in two categories. I think we have two categories of consequences: so, where offences are fostering that we have fatalities on our roads, the penalties are rising. I think that's right. I'm sure that'll have some effect. For other offences which do not affect this category, however, it reduces them meaningfully. And I don't think you need to add anything else to that. Key things that help fatalities on our roads are alcohol, speeding, speeding, speeding, dangerous overtakings, and similar things. And in the event of these penalties, the penalties are increased. Will these penalties affect road safety? I think so. If we only remember neighbouring countries a few years ago when neighbouring countries have drastically increased their sentences, let me just say one case. On Croatian roads, I was driving along the limits behind someone when we came to the Slovenian side, accelerating by just looking at him for a while, and then I didn't see him anymore. I think it must be a problem, a culture of drivers. With these measures that we are proposing now, I think we will reduce mortality on our roads at least for a short time. I think we need to get the savages off our roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is Aloys Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I would just like to confirm and explain why we have tabled an amendment to Article 6, because this has now spread out on the other hand in the debate. In particular, the fact that we are still aware of the poor road conditions in our Group and that, last but not least, a very large part or an important part of the interpretation that has been put in place has been aimed at this particular area against the Minister of the Interior, in this particular area of road safety, not only by wanting to replace the Minister or even harming him in any other way, but in order to alert him to these problems. That part also warned about this step that we want to correct in one small part; it is said to equalise motorists and other drivers. It is illogical to adopt a law where punishments for ordinary drivers are drastically raised and in the same law, in several articles, we reduce penalties for motorists. Not only do we have illogicality in the measurable increase in prices for ordinary drivers and in the reduction of penalties for offences by motorists, but it also means that as a result, the problems created by overloading public, municipal, local roads to increase the parking problems of trucks, with the lack of respect for trucks, when they take the road to the final customer, are not respected by traffic signalling, but unfortunately, they also end lives. Remember the overloaded parking lots along the highways, as well as the fatalities of running into parked trucks on the roads. It is therefore illogical, or incomprehensible, or difficult to understand that the applicant on the one hand is raising penalties for ordinary drivers and that this transport lobby is given such leave in several articles. At least in this Article, we want to increase this. In the debate on the committee, there was a lot of hope placed on municipal radars that would also gain power, power and control over freight traffic in settlements, on municipal roads, even on state roads, so that if we know how human and financially fed municipal officials are, how inappropriate, how they will be financed, how they will be trained, I think this has been a good warning that this solution in this law is weak and will cause a lot of problems on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I am opening a new round of discussions in conjunction with Article 6 on the basis of a further desire for discussion. I'm opening the procedure. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I believe that there has probably been some brief contact or intentional re-offending in matters that are not of interest to the Government and, of course, to the coalition. We heard a discussion by one of the coalition members, who made it clear that the responsibility of the person driving the vehicle as a professional driver and of the individual driving a different vehicle, or of the same vehicle as the non-professional driver, must be the same. Nevertheless, we hear debates - and even the vote on the committee itself was such - that the punishments are pardoned by the person or the reduced penalty is imposed on the person who carries out his or her work or driving professionally. However, if we look at what is said in the 102 articles referred to in this Article, it is a little bit incredible. Since Article 102 states, for example, that: "The persons driving in vehicles referred to in paragraph 5 or 8 of this Article shall not be clearly influenced by alcohol, drugs and so on. The persons referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article shall not be allowed to stand in the vehicle, sit on the pages of the cargo compartment or unstable or on the unmounted cargo. No persons are allowed on a cargo vehicle that does not have pages, cargo compartments and on the switch. In addition to the driver, other persons may be driven on the tractor and on the working machine only if, for this purpose, a passenger transport seat is installed and so on. A child under 12 years of age may only drive on a tractor or a working machine if it is protected by its physical growth by a suitable restraint system." Then go ahead or look up a little bit, because it's interesting that we don't even talk about content at all, but we're just talking about some numbers. Let's say, "the driver can drive only as many persons as the vehicle has built-in seats on the bus, which does not have registered stands on the transport certificate." And so on and so forth. It is said that it is extremely important that the professional driver for whom these rules are to be issued - and that, by all probability, by order or knowledge of his employer, is said to be the legal person for whom he does not write, what punishment he must pay in this case. When we talk about an accident at an unprotected railway crossing, where the bus was on the rail track, there was an accident. Fortunately, there was no one dead, but what if the passengers were standing on that bus, even though we weren't supposed to stop? We don't know what really happened, but I'm speaking hypothetically. It is said that the driver will pay the penalty less than if something similar to this Article or something else referred to in this Article, when it comes to driving a passenger vehicle, was done by an unprofessional driver. Listen, I think we're going overboard here. It cannot be the responsibility of a professional driver to pay less than he would have been ordered to pay less. I don't understand. Is the purpose of this law to weigh who is capable of paying, or to weigh, or can this law - which I do not agree with - be prevented by this law from violating these rules? That's the meaning of the law! The point of the law is not how we pay the high penalty, but whether the measures that the police and perhaps later the court will "undertake" are strong enough, hard enough, hard enough to prevent new and new violations of the traffic rules that result - but I agree with that - the worst accidents; it is said, with the death outcome. Even worse than the death result is for me personally that we have dozens of "flowers", "plants" in individual institutions, because people who are victims of traffic accidents can no longer move and are not only on a wheelchair, but are in bed because they can't even sit on a wheelchair anymore because they can't move their fingers. And if that happens to a professional driver, a professional driver will be less punished than unprofessional. Yes, for God's sake! I have to say, in some things, I really don't see any more common sense, a purely healthy peasant. Let's ask any person in Slovenia who does not deal with a policy that we are completely irrelevant and unnecessary people, what they think about it, when they experience information or even experience the consequences of such accidents themselves, one or the other. I'm not saying that a professional driver is more guilty than unprofessional, but he can't be less punished for the same offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think it's right to make a difference. To make a difference between drivers and professional drivers, it's someone's profession. That's the first thing. Secondly, we transport professional drivers, inter alia, as provided for in Article 102. Third, accidents involving a professional driver or a professional driver have, in principle or usually, significantly greater and worse consequences than those involving two passenger vehicles or if we take two Sunday drivers. Therefore, to equalize or even increase the penalties for, under the terms, us, "ordinary" drivers, but here to adapt to someone who just pressed on the government - and this is no longer to be hidden, and these were not the children that this professional driver will transport, they were not the parents of these children, but they were the professional drivers who pressed and succeeded because they had the opportunity and because the government had given them the opportunity to do so. But realistically, hand to heart, in all these cases they are professionals, people who are professionally driving as their profession; they are also specially qualified to do so, have their limitations and so on. A few other things are referred to in this 102nd Article, to which the amendment to Article 6 applies directly, which could be mentioned and which are very strangely or banally written. But the more obvious reason and pressure someone to make a certain law, as it appears here, I'll say I haven't noticed anything yet. And I'm sorry the government gave in here. Also professional, and whoever, who is a professional is always punished worse than who is, I will say, an amateur in a particular area, anything we turn to, and that's the way it is, so we will support in the Lipa Amendment Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u23	Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with co-workers! Allow me at the outset my personal evaluation of the debate, which took place for several hours on the parent's working body. I view the debate as extremely positive, there was not much politics, even less politics, but there was one common concern about how to limit accidents with the worst, that is, fatal outcomes. This is certainly a painful topic or nightmare for the National Assembly, as we adopted a resolution recently in this assembly on the national road safety programme for the period 2007 - 2011 entitled Together for greater safety and building it on a so-called vision of nothing, but in spite of all that happened to us in the last year 293 deaths on our roads. If we look statistically at 0.8 people died every day on the road, every 30 hours there's one death victim on our roads. With regard to the amendment to Article 6 of our colleagues from the Zares Group, I would like to say the following. We have thought about this amendment, but we estimate that the problem of road transport of persons is not so pronounced as to require significantly higher fines than proposed, and we believe that the amount of fine as in the amended bill is also appropriate. There's something else I'd like to say. This is the fact that this amendment of the law has a high quality objective, and this is how to reduce the worst traffic accidents, by means of measures that would have immediate, immediate effects. Today we do not have time to talk about how to improve transport culture in Slovenia, how to start this culture in kindergarten, primary school and so on. Perhaps I would even assert to those who say it's a stupid government that comes a few months before the elections with a law that raises penalties. This is not about thinking about election results this year. It's about actually doing something in a sincere desire for greater road safety. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Secretary, you can come in and report to me at any time. Can I help you? Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would very briefly like to answer a few questions, given that I will soon have to go to the other obligations that I still have today. First of all, I would like to touch on a question which is not related to this Article but which has been raised several times by several Members, namely that it is a unclear competence to implement this law. The jurisdiction is perfectly clear. Other laws are prepared by some ministries and impose powers on different ministries within them. When the Government decided that the Road Safety Act had been passed to the Ministry of Transport as the competent ministry for this area of legislation, it followed the objectives pursued by the European Union. These laws are prepared everywhere by the Ministries of Transport and not by the Ministry of the Interior. You know, there's been a tremendous criticism that the police are writing their own laws and that they are writing to themselves what they want to do. With this we started a new practice, which perhaps prefers, someone less likes. It is clear, however, that the Ministry of the Interior is involved not only in the drafting of the law, but also in other ministries. In this particular case, in view of the government's obligations in this first half of the year, it has been stipulated that two ministers will be appointed to represent this law, precisely because of situations where we may be absent. I'm sorry we can't both be here today. However, it must be made very clear that the powers of the implementation of the law of competence for individual articles and who exercises control over how it is carried out, why it exercises it, are perfectly crystal clear. And also powers are proposed in this law to allow municipal officials to exercise certain controls on municipal roads, of course. Don't talk about it, and there's no point in the police not doing it anymore. The police will continue to do so, to the fullest extent. Editors are only given the opportunity to do the same for them to do the same. However, something should also be made clear about the distinction between professional and non-professional drivers. There is no record in the law that a driver who will drive under the influence of alcohol is a professional or nonprofessional driver to be punished otherwise. So to be clear, a lot of discussions are going this way so that the citizens who listen to this may think that in marriage we have two categories of drivers - we don't have them! It must be made very clear that most of the provisions speak very clearly of the offence and not of the type of driver who commits the offence. However, if we are talking specifically about Article 102, or Article 6, which relates to Article 102, it is about the translation of the penalty and not the reduction of the penalty. The previous sentence was 30,000 tolars. Because of the change in the law and because this has changed now, this penalty has been translated into EUR 120. And it's not about the downgrading, I don't know where this idea of a downgrading offence is coming from. It is true, however, that one parliamentary group has proposed that this penalty be increased by 100%. In doing so, the assessment was that the sentence to be translated was appropriate for this type of offence. At the same time, it should also be said that professional drivers, as was the case in previous proposals of the law and in the law in force, are treated much more acutely in certain provisions than drivers who drive only personal vehicles doing so on their own time or are non-professional drivers. In any case, I must make it very clear that the law does not have double standards and criteria and that if someone drives too fast, he is punished for this offence, whether he is a professional driver or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. However, Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the introduction, I would like to say something about what I had just heard before, and even on the committee, some of the wrong things were mentioned, claims that the law generally increases, dramatically increases fines, I don't know how many times and so on. That's not true! The law increases fines for really the most serious offenses, for those whose consequences are really severe, say, death, graver bodily harm and so on. However, it is a punishment to drink alcohol among drivers, to punish those who drive too fast, who blackmail and so forth. Only for these categories. That's one thing. Secondly, if I try to focus on this amendment to Article 6. On the one hand, the applicants talk about increasing the penalties for so-called ordinary drivers and, on the other hand, reducing the penalties for those professional drivers. The Minister has already outrun me and said that it is not so that the penalties for these professional drivers do not increase in this case, but only translate, but I don't know why you, on the one hand, are telling us that we are increasing the penalties, on the other hand you are proposing an increase in the penalty. I don't understand this unless there's a receipt in the background of drivers whose drivers there are more and to which category of drivers need to be more liked and then those who need to be persuaded by the fact that others are being punished. As for railway crossings in Slovenia, however, we do not have unsecured crossings. We only have different insurance, so when we discuss it, otherwise I know that we all get to know each other on the market, but I think it would be good if we were accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. And Member Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I want to make it perfectly clear to those who are watching our transmission. Apparently, someone can't read the explanation for the amendment. So, the Emissary Group really didn't say anything about penalties being reduced. The Zares Group wrote that the penalties for offences related to the transport of persons are unchanged. So I don't know where he's explaining how we're supposed to go down. The fact is that they are unchanged and the problem arises because, compared to the other penalties for the other drivers, they remain at this level and the other drivers are much more severely sanctioned. And here is the debate arising from such a law, and here I am looking for an answer why the Ministry has therefore seen the need for this type of punishment in this article for these carriers to remain at the same level as it was, so why does it explain that this is justified in this case? We know that there have been relatively few violations in the past. And so, that was the basis for us not to be increased here because of this punishment. However, the fact is - and statistics show some data - they may also be useful for the way and the level of sanctioning, but in such a case the consequences in the future may also be different, and this may lead to a different regime. And here were the reasons why probably the Zares Group, as well as some on the Committee on Transport, had put this type of penalty into question in this article, which therefore has an amendment. But before that, in his explanation, the minister passed through the amendment. I hope that I will not be misunderstood if I comment on something that Mr Minister is himself in this debate and also requires different thinking or, at least, in my opinion, I will say otherwise. He says that the police do not withdraw, the police continue to do this work and are editors only, in fact, to increase this control or to be able to exercise this control. Mr Minister, I believe it is difficult to monitor even Slovenia, and also from the analysis that your services are preparing to determine what is really going on in the field. So, the findings of the citizens, of the people of some cities, and some of the settlements are that the police are not. So that the police gradually withdraw from these tasks, which were sometimes only in the hands of the police, and leave them - but this is what we have already said on the committee - has in fact passed this responsibility on to the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and to the Ministry of Transport. In fact, it seems to us that perfidically slowly creates the conditions for someone else to do this instead of them, and this is the problem of this law, that one of us does not believe what you are writing because we see differently on the ground, and therefore it seems to us that there is a risk that the consequences of this act will be such that the police will really lose or get rid of this responsibility. In this article and this amendment, it is my view that some types of flattery and adaptation to the car transport nomenclature are being made. The fact is that this structure is much more organised than the people who drive their cars for their personal needs. These people don't organize themselves, they don't run civil disobedience, they don't push, they don't block roads, and the carriers know that. It is only when Pintar or Klobas decides to take their carriers to the roads to protest, to close the roads, to close the toll stations, that is, the Ministry, that is, the Government, is afraid, and therefore agrees that these penalties will remain unchanged, even though, in fact, there are several reasons for concern among some carriers than in the case of passenger transport. The fact is that trucks on our roads today have become possessive, the fact is that trucks are the ones that create much more trouble on the roads, that they are crossing the highway to local, regional roads, that they are hampering traffic and polluting the environment there. But we actually agree with such measures that they are organized forces, and we as civilian drivers in our private life do not have this ambition to argue with the police, the ministry and the government. As a result, it seems to us that there has been a departure from this type of sanction, which is clearly more stringent in this case than for personal drivers and other drivers compared to professional drivers. And if we are talking about this amendment, it is really incomprehensible why these penalties must remain at the same level as they were when some other offences were even less fatal, less problematic, so drastically increased. And that was the intention of the proposed amendment and nothing else, I believe, in this case. So, because the language of Serbs and other possibilities is no longer available, because of these anomalies, because of these stupidities, because of these things that occur in marriage, it is possible to attribute a bad law to this law. Because it is not consistent, because it is not systemic, we cannot give it support by saying that we all have the same goal, so we want to improve security. We believe that this way, and so sanctioning or this type of punishment, which, as we have described, are not the way to improve traffic safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Before I open the procedure for a new round, the minister will speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I spoke again because, unfortunately, I'm going to have to leave the meeting in a few minutes. I would like to make it very clear about what was now kind of obvious in the last performance. I would like to make it very clear that in the introduction, I may not have made it clear enough to raise the penalties involved in this law. This is an increase in penalties in areas where the most common causes of accidents are accidents. And in this particular article, we are speaking today about why we did not impose penalties on this particular article. Not that anyone in this country likes them, but at least, on my part, the car carrier - whenever they talk to me, these interviews are quite hard - but we have estimated that this offence is not one that causes such traffic accidents or in such a form that would seriously endanger traffic safety. At the same time, today, not a word has been said about the reduction of penalties for citizens in certain offences. For those who have no impact on traffic safety, which do not in any way endanger traffic safety, such as, for example, possession of a document called a driving licence. And some others, too. It is said that the legislator intended to impose penalties and to sanction both penalties and points for those offences which are the most common causes of the worst traffic accidents, in others, to translate and in some who do not have a practical impact on driving safety, to reduce penalties. These were three points that talked about it and how they were supposed to do it. But that the police don't step off the road, they don't, they don't just speak statistics, they speak some facts. Police increased the number of alcohol tests on Slovenian roads by almost 20% last year. She has discovered so many and so many drivers who have been guilty of more than this and who have been guilty of more than 1.5 passes if we speak in old numbers because most citizens understand them most. We've increased the number of roadside controls. Last year, we also introduced specific forms of cargo control that we did not have before. Regularly performed, on the most burdened roads in Prekmurje, testing, practical technical inspections of vehicles at the border itself and also within, both by own resources and by means of the means we have hired for these purposes, that practically every other third day technical checks are carried out. Of course, Slovenia is burdened by freight traffic and we can all feel it on the roads we are driving. However, we are burdened not so much with domestic freight as with transit, but we cannot limit it because we are a member of the EU and cannot limit transit across our territory. For comparison only, in 2002 there was a border crossing, only one border crossing, about 300,000 trucks crossed the long way in one year. Last year it was 1.2 million. All the trucks are on our roads, and we just want them to respect the rules. However, some other measures need to be taken to improve the safety of freight transport across our roads, which is not possible overnight, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. May I invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to the next amendment? I'm opening a new application circuit. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to speak with you about the amendments to the Road Safety Act. Much has been said about the heights of punishment, whether they are appropriate or not. In criminal law, criminal law is governed by the rule that there must be a principle of proportionality. This law, of course, which is normal, does not take into account the socio-economic circumstances of the perpetrator. But if we think carefully about who, in fact, will be severely affected by individual punishment and who will not be affected by it drasticly. Surely this drastic, high punishment will not affect one who has a lot of money, and these are young Japs who race the roads for fun and can afford any kind of punishment. This gives you the opportunity to see them crash cars or commit violations at midnight. These increased penalties will certainly not be affected and will not have any effect. Nor will they have this high punishment, especially focusing on those penalties that are for offences, affecting those from which you can't recover anything. I do not want to put particular emphasis on individual nationalities, but our citizens know well, and we also know in the Member States who cannot be punished. Simply some Roma drive without registered cars, commit offences such and different and nothing can be recovered from them. So you can't recover anything from these two categories. But you will recover from the citizens who are regularly employed. And among these, it will happen that workers will also pay a thousand euros in fines. Everything's fine and fine. Criminal policy is also necessary for offences that are dangerous, but if you take a good look at where the signs are set and how they are set; just yesterday night when I drove through an enlightened section where there are many illuminating advertisements, that is, in various ways also illuminated - from what is difficult to see a traffic sign. And you know what, it might happen to you that you'll miss the sign. Because otherwise, the road will look like you can drive faster and you'll get over speed. And so it will happen to a worker who returns from another shift home and overlooks the sign. And he'll pay a thousand euros in fines. This is what I want to warn you - that you have to assume that not everyone who commits crimes is a punk and that for fun and I don't know what else they do. I therefore also point to the principle of proportionality. So if there are such circumstances on the road and that happens. Where are these radar controls? Right where the sign is, let's say, badly visible, it's hard to recognize. Where the sign is unusually placed, because it would be under circumstances where it assumes you can drive faster. That's where they're gonna stand, but they're not. And the question of the eligibility of such a sign. We have a lot of places like this, places where we could put them like this. What is important is how this legislation will affect. Are these approaches really going to reduce penalties? And now for the amendment, regarding the fact that he wants to influence the carriers. I believe that this amendment takes account of the circumstances and is appropriate. It is not so much about pleasing carriers, but it is necessary to apply the principle of proportionality, the principle of equality, including for professional and professional drivers. I think that's the right approach. Of course, I'm stressing again. In general, including in other amendments, where these criminal principles are involved, in order to respect the principle of proportionality, the principle that people are not the ones who deliberately commit offences and that we must take this into account in criminal policy, in criminal policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Given that neither the debater nor the Minister has so far been susceptible to business provisions to discuss only the amendment and the content of the amendment, I will no longer place individual speakers within the scope of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So you continue with the practice you have put in place during today's debate. I tried, but I'm afraid it didn't work out. The next member of Parliament, Mr Janc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This introduction is quite a good one for this debate. However, I will try to stick to this Article 6 as much as possible. I am on the labour body itself, the Transport Committee, where the debate was quite interesting, for, against, arguments for and against a crime, height and so on. I have always argued that the penalties imposed by this law are relatively very high. Very high for those who are somehow in proportion to those who are today talking about this amendment, professional and non-professional drivers, all those involved in traffic and this relationship, the minister also said, but some analysis of the state of the past time, who were the major causes, who are the more frequent, who are the more dangerous, and who are the ones who are causing those fatal accidents, which are, of course, many, many too many on our roads. We have to stop the savages on our roads. This is our commitment, our mission. I know it's not just the police's job, it's not just the Ministry of Transport's job, but it's society as a whole that we're trying to confront them in such a different light. Unfortunately, criminal policy is an urgent evil, without which it does not work, and this measure is primarily about trying to stop or reduce the number of dead on our roads in such a criminal way. If we succeed at the end of the year, we will re-analyse. We were or we weren't. I'm afraid that won't be enough for our better results on Slovenian roads. To influence this, many other factors such as these and other factors, which we have also discussed in the general debate, would not be repeated today. And that is why I find it difficult to support this amendment to further increase these penalties, in my opinion already extremely high. Tall for all citizens. Above all, for those who regret earning the 400 euro fights still and how this man, who will not be a savage, will also be broken at some point, will pay this extremely high penalty. And another question. How we will also recover this penalty from all those violators I hope the police will catch properly. It is our bad side today that many punishments are irrevocable, punished, sadly unrecoverable and never paid for and for such and other reasons. However, I am convinced that this relationship between transgressions, such and different and heights, which go somewhere substantially up and somewhere in constant, is, in my opinion, some reality of this time, these cases that appear on our roads, that we try to stop savages at all costs, speed. For this is the chief cause of the worst-case accidents. And here I think this law follows this, it wants to give that goal. However, I believe that there are differences of opinion between the parliamentary groups. Some want to do so here and there, and I myself have advocated that we may perhaps be slightly better able to delve these financial or fines into penal points. Perhaps even this measure would be better than exclusively and only to hit pockets with fines, worth as much as a thousand and so many euros. These are amounts that are enormously high, which will certainly sober up a number of citizens at the time of the offence, one or the other. This is probably the purpose and purpose of this law that we have before us. Any repression, one or the other, is unkind, but it is one where there are some expectations of them that it will decrease and stop. What measures will be taken among others in this preparatory action plan. I think one of the measures would make a lot of sense. Traffic signalling in Slovenia is, believe me, extremely inanimate, inappropriate, restrictions in some places where they have no weight at all, at 40 or 50 kilometers per hour. This should also be checked to see where this restriction is meaningful and where it is not, and where it is not possible, to be re-set. So checking this situation on state roads, as well as on municipal roads, would be a necessary measure for me. But the others are definitely radars. The radar that we should have on the fast roads is largely too small. We don't even have any stationary radars or very few. This measure would certainly, believe me, be a successful preventive measure without this criminal policy. We know that where there are radars, mutual signalling is extremely successful on roads, as well as an extremely positive measure in terms of speed reduction, both occasional and constant. We have a few things waiting for us here, not just criminal policy. Here I would take a little bit of a spare, although, as I said in the introductions, without it I regret not going, it was and will be, every society has it and ours has it. And here, in my opinion, we are quite Europeanly comparable according to penalties, unfortunately, but we will probably not be able to pay for a while. And believe me, whoever continues to go wild with a good car will be able to pay a thousand euros easily. However, those who will occasionally "break up" will find it very difficult to pay a thousand euros. Of course, this is another story that we cannot discuss in this law. This amendment, in my view, does not follow what was also the topic of the debate on the working body, but also today in the National Assembly, so the existing penalties are high enough, so let us not raise them any more. That's why I don't think this amendment is appropriate and I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u37	Thank you for your general discussion. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. This article, or amendment, looks something like "if a cow has died on me, let her next door." I am certainly personally against such high sentences. And the logic of this government proposal that penalties should be doubled follows - if penalties have doubled in almost all areas, except the exceptions that we have heard, if you do not have a driver's license with you or something like that, then they should double everywhere. Not that, as the proponent has written down, they are kept, but unfortunately that is not true, they are even shrinking. 30,000, by the way, is 125 euros, now it's 120 euros, but let's not be petty. And for this reason, once again, I stress that I am very skeptical that such high penalties will achieve their goal, reduce the number of accidents and road victims, but sooner or later, they will achieve the opposite. And that is why, as I originally said, this amendment is only in the sense that the law becomes more consistent. This is already, the law becomes more consistent if the penalties have doubled or more everywhere, then let it be elsewhere for non-professional drivers and then let it be here. But as I say, once again, I do not believe that this is the right way, that this is the solution to ensure greater road safety. At the time of the debate, I pointed out that it is more important, more important, to train drivers and not to raise them with repression. Preventive is the one who'll give something. However, when we are talking about this article again, I cannot go beyond what I have also been alerting for the first time, and it is forbidden to carry out a sunbathing, braking and stopping. At the time, I wondered what it meant to be sunny, how many meters per second of acceleration or deceleration does that mean? If the applicant had a voice in mind, then let him write it in such a way that the rubber must not growle at night in front of the houses of people who sleep but not give such a dictatorship that he can't endure anywhere. Sunken or not sunny, define what it means, how much a deceleration, how much acceleration. There's gonna be something sunny for someone else. Under one condition, due to hard rubber, very sunny extraction will be completely silent, and it will not be heard under any other conditions very, very loud and unfortunately my first debate will fly on the deaf ear of the proposer. And one more thing. The driver of a motorcycle and motorcycle must drive in such a way that it does not reduce the stability of the vehicle, in particular not to lower the steering wheel, but here I would really like to hear the answer, even to avoid later misinterpretations or doubtful interpretations of what it means to run the steering wheel. If that means letting go of the feed with one hand? 'Cause then someone's gonna say, "If you wipe your glass on your helmet now, you wipe the drops off your helmet when it rains." Last but not least, motorist gloves have a similar rubber on this finger for this very purpose, which is also contrary to the law that it is a violation. I believe that if you let go of control with both hands, that this is it, but once again the matter is not sufficiently defined, and I really don't want to go through some crimes that aren't actually there, and to sanction the work that contributes to safety, you wipe the glass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, all present. So the title of the law itself is, of course, about road safety, and this article is also, of course, about end-of-the-end, and repressive measures or penalties are, of course, talking about it. The aim of all these laws and any changes to the law is, of course, to reduce the worst accidents, especially those with a fatal outcome and, of course, those who have the result of people permanently disabled, I would say, to normal life, which in many cases is even worse than, perhaps, a fatal accident itself. I personally believe that the punishments themselves are not the most important. Above all, I think it's more important to control or act like drivers of all categories so that we don't commit crimes. Unfortunately, however, we cannot learn this and no education helps it, it does not serve, although of course I agree that this school, or school or educational system needs to be given much more attention, that it is essential to do more to make our infrastructure in a way that makes it dangerous or makes it possible to drive safely through a variety of measures, which are also by reducing excessive road advertising and so on and so forth, which has already been mentioned several times today. But in my profound belief, the speeds are those that cause these worst accidents. I am already in the general debate, and I am also using this article today to mention that, according to my assessment, speed is the biggest problem on our roads. Unless we can prove otherwise that we are driving within the prescribed speeds, within the speed appropriate to the situation at that time at a given section, it is, of course, necessary to carry out significantly more frequent controls. But this, I think, can only be achieved by a measure that the state must once, in my opinion, do wisely, first by purchasing and then by installing an extremely large number of radars. I simply think that the budget will provide you with one purchase at a time, I don't know, I'll make up a number, but I mean real about 250 radars or 300 radars that we set up or station or transport them in the right vehicles for that and that we force all of us drivers to always and everywhere to keep these prescribed speeds. And if so, perhaps I will also make another proposal, which I know will not be implemented for long, the debate in this assembly has repeatedly mentioned in recent years that we have 50% of the state roads virtually non-transportable in Slovenia. I have repeatedly commented on this, so I don't believe it, because then 50% of the Members would walk to work or to the National Assembly. This isn't happening. I don't prescribe much attention to that information. But it is necessary to introduce measures to reduce speed, to calm traffic. That seems more important to me. But we have, before, a colleague, mentioned the problem of driving in Croatia. Even more pronounced is the transition, I don't know, Austrian borders with Slovenia. So there, and not Slovenian drivers, including Austrian drivers, even German drivers, in Austria hold tightly - because you never know when the radar will catch you - but when we get to Slovenia - I practically drive 75 km a day from home to Ljubljana and back - and believe me, only in this mandate for three and a half years, I have never encountered a radar, although I am very fast, but I never have, nor have I seen any radar. And that's the problem. Look, over the Trojans, where we have a 100 km/h limit, and one box is where the radars are supposed to be, and they're not supposed to be. I don't know if they are or not. But via Trojans it's mainly not essentially over a limited speed of 100 km/h, not significantly over it. And that makes me think that it's necessary to buy a bunch of radars, install them and transport them on our roads and measure these speeds, and also because we're all going to stick to speeds, those penalties that are high or too high or whatever will become irrelevant, because if we stick to the prescribed speeds, it won't be a problem. And I'll make another suggestion. I said earlier that it would certainly cause anger or laughter; I believe that the measure was a year ago that we went off-roads to 90 kilometres per hour, and I think it would have to be reduced back to 80 km/h. There are the worst traffic accidents with the worst consequences. And also check to see if the speed on highways 130, depending on our traffic-safety situation, is right or would not be good to go to 120 km/h. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Member Aloys Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In particular, thank you very much for your decision to allow, under such a minor article as this Article 6 and this amendment, this debate has opened up and proves that it was a wrong decision on the committee that the Committee did not take the initiative of the Social Democrats to make a public presentation before the second hearing. You can see the dilemma, the number of concerns and certainly this was a bad decision, and that in the debate and presentation of this law or this amendment we are alerting in the Zares Group, and I think that everyone sitting here in Parliament is deeply in agreement with the basic objective of the law, the right reduction in the number of worst accidents on Slovenian roads is true. However, such a law, as it is prepared, raises a number of other issues that we have very clearly pointed out at the time of the debate on the Committee, but unfortunately the coalition was not listening and it is strange today to listen to some who have doubts as to how someone who has 300, 400 euros of wages will be able to pay the fine of EUR 1000. This will likely result in a number of social and other problems on the ground. With all these phenomena, which are already a percentage of inexhaustibility, constant returnees to violations. So that these are problems that are right to be pointed out before the introduction of this law, but certainly not for political reasons, or to be liked by anyone, at least in the Member State, we are convinced that with the conditions on the road, with security, with human life, there is certainly no politics, there is no likeness and the difference that we see, but that no law is understood that the law must be such that people fear it, but the law must be such that the law is respected. And this is the difference that colleagues have also shown in the case of how we drive Slovenians abroad and how we drive home. And this is due to respect for regulations, respect for the police, respect for order and the presence of the police on the road. That is, if there is no sense that you can be punished at any department, that you can be punished on every road, then that responsibility is reduced. If, then, in Austria, no one is likely to engage in a dialogue with a police officer or pay half or half a bill or how else, no one complains to the Constitutional Court, but laws are respected and this is the difference that changes are needed in Slovenia. However, change can only be done through education, education and therefore we have doubts about these drastic high penalties, and we have also offered in the procedure a proposal not to drastically increase the penalties, but to increase the number of points, thus forcing permanent offenders, who, as has been said, have been given a high sentence, but to some, we do not mean anything and again have privileged residents of the state of Slovenia, and again the Government worships those who have money because this law will affect them less than it will affect those with lower income. And if I conclude with what I am sorry for, because Mr Minister has left, it is not possible that we have two types of drivers, that we have two kinds of people, but that in this law, where we drastically impose penalties on ordinary drivers, we also have seven articles, in which we reduce between 25 and 50% of the penalty, fines on the field of transport. This is not a mix-up, as has been said, we understand that if the truck carries the speed allowed across the settlement, it will be punished as high as the citizen mentioned. It is not logical for us to change in the same law those articles, where they fall from 25% to 50% of the fine for overloading a truck, to disregard the traffic signal to interfere with the arrival of steady traffic. And it would be interesting if the two ministers were sitting because a peaceful traffic, at least as far as I know it, is no longer being regulated by the police today. The Minister has ensured that, with the introduction of municipal directors, the police will continue to control this, since peaceful traffic is no longer working, that the warnings we have given and we have been listening to for several years, by moving trucks from motorways to state roads, to local roads, and to municipal roads, this is not sufficiently effectively regulated, and it is therefore right that this debate takes place not only on the basis of what has been said, but on the whole of the story, Article 6, which is very, very insignificant, very insignificant, and it is important that we will actually affect that part of the law, which is questionable, how will be able to pay such penalties, and, on the other hand, I repeat that it is obvious that the Government or the proposer is subject to the pressure of carriers, because it is not understandable that such reliefs or reductions of such penalties will be imposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Member Bojan Homan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. It is difficult for me to understand these terms from the discussion by the said and unusual driver. For me, we're all the same drivers, the moment you get in the car, whether it's a professional driver or an amateur, I think that's what you mean by a professional amateur. We're all the same on the road, we're all drivers, if one does this job, it's his job, but the speed sign is all the same, 60 speed is the same for a professional or non-professional. And that we're talking here about how little the punishment is, how much the punishment is, if we don't commit crimes, there won't be any punishment. For those savages who are on the road, however, the penalties are too heavy because they simply cause fate. I don't know a school that doesn't train well, every school learns to drive by the book, and every driver who comes out is so capable of driving on the road by the book. I don't know an instructor who would say "you, because this is how you drive, but I'm not going to be driving like that," but actually this is what's happening today, and we have a variety of youth groups going to bet at night in a circular crossroad who's going to be in the opposite lane of vehicles, who's going to be faster on the Celovska road with the engine on the last bike, and that's why this law is meant. But to get on professional drivers like that, let's let them go, because they're already quite the poor, they've got the biggest, I'd say, tachograph, hidden cop with him, he's got one in there, he's got one in there, he's got one control of how much time he's in the car, how much time he's in, how much time he's in, how much time he's in, how much time he's in, how much time he's in, how much time he's personally, how much he's a regular driver, it's not going to apply to me. I can drive 24 hours, and no one will control me. The Turks we see coming from Germany to Turkey, behind the vehicle are actually a wet towel by the neck and the gas, and we're going. Then what happens? Then it's an accident. The law, however, is designed to reduce the death toll, reducing those things that are happening on a road that is speedless. I haven't been stopped by a cop yet, and probably none of you, to say, nice, you've been on the road for so many years, driving around by the book like that. He must have stopped us when we committed a crime. And if we've committed a crime, unfortunately, we'll pay for it. It's also some kind of education, some commitment to be more careful about avoiding wrongdoing. I don't know why this is such a debate. Called, uncalled for, high, too high, too low a sentence. If we drive according to the rules, there won't be any punishment. For those who commit crimes, he'll just pay the fine, he'll be brought up. If I go to Austria I know exactly, God forbid I buy a vineyard, I don't hope to afford it. Because it is €18 and €1,000 fine. Even if they do, you'll say, "Op, buddy, watch out, fasten up, drive." And here's the debate as to what, what, up, down, whether we're going to increase the professional's professional sentence, or not to increase, let's give no peace. I think we want to reduce every death victim. There's too many of them. We all know there's too many. And here, what do you do? We just can't talk. I don't know what we're gonna do about it. The driver, when he is alone in the car, becomes hanged and those obscenities must be sanctioned and the matter regulated as prescribed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much, colleague Homan. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll start at the end. Why is such a discussion needed about professional and non-professional drivers? First of all, because a professional driver transports passengers and children, among other things. And because his punishment hasn't changed, it's just been prescribed, and everyone else has changed, and the great stupidity this law imposes, and I'm going to tell you now. He's supposed to be fined where the worst traffic accidents are. A driver, a professional driver, if we are already making differences when driving a child, as defined in Article 102 after the indents, is punished by 30,000 tolars or 120 euros, which is a little less than we have already found. A bicycle in Article 103 that lifts its feet from the pedals for 20,000 tolars. Let me tell you this logic? Now who is more dangerous here: a lady on a bicycle who lifts her feet with pedals and will be a city editor, because more or less money goes into the municipal budget, punished her for driving across the meadow, or a professional driver who performs his job professionally, inter alia, transports children, so many and many passengers. This is the nonsense of this marriage. Don't say that there's no need for a debate if there's such nonsense in the law. You're damn right it's necessary. Second stupidity. Why is it necessary to discuss the amendment to Article 6. I'm not going to spread the debate. Because it's supposed to be a driver, me, a village that's not professionally engaged in transportation, either people or cargo. It doesn't matter. As long as it exceeds the speed of the settlement for 10 kilometres, 125.19 euros is foreseen. It happens, let's be honest, we've probably all been together before. Don't say you're all driving unobstructed through all the settlements and stuff. Each of us has ever been punished for a traffic violation. They also recovered it from us with ease. Even for safety belts, you can get a prison order if you don't pay the penalty. But then you decide quickly to settle it. Believe me. As far as the words spoken by the Minister of the Interior are concerned. I will say this; it is right that several ministries participated in the drafting of the law. I am sorry, however, that there is no Minister of Finance among these ministries. For this duality of government, this imbalance between wages and penalties, is too great. And the Minister of Finance, I would like to tell you that in Slovenia there will be a bunch of people who cannot or will not settle these penalties. I'm not saying, someone can answer me not to do any offenses, but they won't need to, but here we are 90, so let me tell you, except for those who don't have a driver's license, who hasn't passed a 10-mile sentence. [[...]] Let's be lifelike. Let the laws be lifelike. And another duplicity of the government. Look, I just heard from my predecessor today, raising the penalty means reducing the death penalty. We're fighting these vandals on the roads. That's not true. The law applies to all people, not just vandals. It's true of all people. I believe there's a lot of obscenities and vandals on the roads, but the law applies to all people. For example, the penal code applies to all people. But there, according to the Minister of Justice, and the Minister of the Interior, that is not the case. But there the increase in punishment does not mean reducing either the death toll, or the victim of sexual violence, or anything else, or this law, I will say, the penal code is indeed specific. It doesn't cover as many people as it does this law. Why this duplicity of government? Why this duality of government members? When we voted on the penal code, everyone was against it because it's not worth it, it's not social. It's social here. A citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who will not be able to pay the penalty will be put in prison. We know what that means, that he didn't get out of jail, and he'll be in there as long as he doesn't make it right. Is that right? Is this intended to reduce the number of deaths on Slovenian roads? I don't think so. Prevention is the first thing this law puts into second place. The state budget must be filled with something, that is true and not to say that the Ministry of the Interior did not add to this law its component, which could also help in the state budget, of course it is. And let's be honest once again, and let's face it, when there's the most police on the road between 25th and 1, we know there's 5th salary, let's be honest. When do you give them those special tasks, special forms and special duties that they have to do standards? You don't make up cops themselves, you give them instructions like that. Don't tell me it's not true. If he doesn't meet a certain standard, he'll know about the percentage on his salary. And if I go back to the amendment to Article 6. I would like to point out once again, it is not the same as being a professional driver, to whom we have prescribed the penalty from the old law, even reduced if we turn the tolars into euro and not the same as being a biker, the biker is not professional, except athletes, no one and we do not say that it is the same, but the penalty is about the same, for 4 euros there is a difference in punishment. These are the stupid things this government does in this marriage. And unless the amendments are supported by the law in the unaffiliated members of Lip's Group, we will not be able to support it in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I wanted to discuss it in accordance with the amendments, but given that this debate is now open to all, I will also adjust my debate, but I am sorry that Minister Matei is not among us at the time of this debate, because it really shows from this debate that the Transport Committee has made a huge mistake in rejecting the proposal of the Social Democrats' Group to make a public presentation of this law. This is the text of a law which, in my opinion, is written very badly, indeed, a broken text, on the one hand, Minister Mate will talk about how much they have done to reduce road accidents, and on the other hand will be responsible for the recovery of these accidents or offences on the lines or on the mayors, that is to say 210 municipalities in Slovenia. In fact, in the settlements, the director is responsible for overseeing traffic on local roads and on state roads under this law. And the police will be gone from tomorrow to the settlements. In practice, the directors will bear all the responsibility to oversee traffic in the settlements. Infringements in settlements are punished far higher than in other parts of the road. In general, the penalties increase from 20% to 170% and are reduced for legal persons and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] employers from 20% to 50%, but right [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] for a natural person, for a daily driver, penalties increase from 20% to 170%. And that it is a broken written law, I speak and justify it because the congregations will also have different forms of editorial services in their fields. Some congregations will be more qualified for this, others less, but Minister Mate will always be able to pronounce himself, this is not our jurisdiction, this is the responsibility of the congregation, and the costs in the congregations will increase significantly. There will be a need for more editors, there will also be a need for editors who will be trained to stop on state roads and to implement all the prescribed measures taken on state roads. I do not think it is too much to recall that virtually all state roads, except motorways and fast roads that do not pass through settlements, all others, the main roads of the first order, the second order and the regional roads run mostly through settlements. And a large part of the responsibility and work will be given to the congregation officials. The police are essentially withdrawing from road safety regulation. Therefore, I say that this law is very badly written and will reduce road safety, because the municipalities are not qualified to accept as much responsibility as this law imposes on them at this time. Imagine, too, whether zone 30 or, for example, speeding in a village between 20 and 30 kilometers an hour, if this happens three times, you can take the vehicle away from the person who committed the offence. But this will have to be done by the director and the entire procedure will have to be carried out by the congregation, not by the ministry, not by the police. A huge obligation for the editor and the municipality to carry out this vehicle-taking procedure. Next, even if the speed exceeds 20 kilometres per hour in a calm traffic zone, the penalty is 1,000 euros plus 9 penalty points. I think there's quite a few of these 30 cones in our settlements, I can say, sometimes just like that, because someone managed to fight there, I don't know, instead of restricting the limits of 30 kilometers an hour. But almost no one takes this into account because these speeds are really extremely low. It will be necessary to analyse all these calm zones, whether they are real or not, whether we need them or not to that extent. For if they stay, someone will take a child to kindergarten in one day with a purely everyday job when he goes to the store and takes the child to kindergarten and so on, in one day he will be able to exceed this limit three times and will be three thousand euros in one day. But that's gonna be the mayor's problem, that's gonna be the problem with the mayor. It will not be a problem for the Minister of the Interior, it will not be a problem for the Minister of Transport or for the police. That is why this law, once again, is very badly written, and it is not good that we accept it in this way and in the way that we are talking and meeting it here today. This is, I think, a real area that we should all study more seriously together before we go into such a change of this legislation. At least, if we are already imposing such an obligation on the municipalities, we should set up a local police force. Local police in the sense that this regulation and standard are then the same for all municipalities in Slovenia. When we were adopting the Law on Warfare, it was not necessary for the Government to listen to these warnings when we spoke about the introduction of local police. No, the allegations were, "No! These are the guards. This isn't about the local police."but today we impose on these officers the powers of the police and we really need the law on local police to have the same regulation throughout the country to exercise this control of road safety. Otherwise, each congregation, I repeat, will make its own decision as to how it will carry it out. Some people already have editors, some don't have them, and the question is when will they have them? At the same time, the municipalities are expected to install these fixed radars in a very short time; the country has decided here that this obligation will no longer be passed on to the municipalities and fixed radars - by the state of paid, installed, in the settlement. Outside the settlements it is likely possible, but in the settlements of these facilities there will be no more, and it will be the cost of the congregation. I think it's a very big cost, and it's also a very big task, because it's probably necessary to look at how many violators there have been and then take a complicated procedure to get the appropriate punishment for who committed the offence. And if we have these fixed facilities in the settlements, we can imagine how much work there will be at once for the municipal administration, for the editors and what the budgetary implications will be. I doubt that we will all be so successful in the municipalities that we will recover all these penalties and that we will say that this has become one of the main, independent sources of funding for local self-government. If I read and follow this law, this may be one of the guidance given by the applicant to become one of the most sought-after sources for the municipal budget. I don't think this is the right direction and it's impossible to build road safety in settlements on the shoulders of municipalities. I agree that it is necessary to have good cooperation between the police, between the directors, among the municipalities, but this law actually places concrete responsibility in the settlements only and only to the municipalities and the editors, and again, I stress, it exceeds the current organisation of municipalities and editorial services in Slovenia. So that this amendment that is before us is practically equalizing the punishments that were before yesterday. It doesn't cause any new stuff like that. But also these amendments, like the Social Democrats, in particular, we propose to Article 106, touch on how to organise editorial services. In our amendment, we are talking about giving municipalities at least a 24-month delay to be properly trained to implement this law. I can't imagine how, at the time of the adoption of this law, the municipalities would begin to exercise all this control over traffic at that time. We suggest that this happens after 24 months, and that after these 24 months, the police in the settlements still carry out activities like they have so far and that we all have a chance to ask ourselves together: Is what is written in this law even possible in these two years or not? In addition, I am also concerned about this fact, which has also been highlighted by the Law-Legal Service, that some of the sub-legal acts will be issued when the Minister is reminded that he will issue it. There are no deadlines in this law in which acts of law are to be issued and within which period the provision laid down in each article of this Act must then enter into force. This is certainly contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and I have not heard that today Minister Mate would give an answer to this warning from the Legislative and Legal Service. This is Article 106. The original text stated that the 1st September deadline, I believe that 2009, in the amendment to the Committee, this provision was deleted, on a proposal from the Coalition and the Minister does not have a deadline within which to issue the sub-laws in this law. So, specifically, this law also reduces road safety, but not improves. The amendment that would remedy this, I would say, the irregular situation in this 106th article, I did not track it, it is not. I do not know whether or not the proposer will design it or explain why ministers may have, in contravention of Slovenian legislation, decide themselves when to issue a sub-legislative act for the implementation of this law, but currently there is no basis for it in the Slovenian legal order. And I also expect a concrete response to how it will approach this weakness, which has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much. To the word of Ambassador Robert Hroat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you very much again for your word. I get the feeling that we're moving away from the point where we're adopting today's novelty of this law. Now, if I could just comment on my forerunner for a moment. The Minister made it clear that the directors have complemented the police and the police will continue to carry out all these tasks they have performed so far. This isn't about making any changes. But if I go back to Article 6, because I think it's very important because some of the debaters were involved in some kind of deception. See, it is not about any privilege or differences between ordinary, so-called ordinary drivers and professional drivers. The difference here is just a series of misdemeanors. Only here is the difference. From the outset, it has been made clear today that we want to improve traffic safety on our roads, and this law follows this. See, statistics have shown that drivers who drink alcohol, who drive too fast, who run too fast, are the ones who caused the worst accidents. And that's the fact that statistics talk about it. Statistics have also shown that the offences covered by Article 6 do not constitute a type which, as a result, constitutes a serious traffic accident, but that we will understand what and how many offences are committed, allow me some statistics which are visible in the material and in the roads outside the settlements in the Republic of Slovenia during the period 2000-2006 a little less than 100,000 traffic accidents, of which 1137 were fatal, 5000 and something else with severe physical injury and so on. During this period, nearly 19,000 people were involved in traffic accidents, of which 1,293 died, 6,500 were severely injured and so on. And it turns out that the most common factor for causing a car accident was alcohol and unadjusted speed. During this period, more than 25,000 drivers and around 10,000 drivers of accidents were alcoholized, whose factor was unadjusted speed and so on. This is what statistics are talking about, and now we have to ask ourselves clearly what we want to achieve. We want to achieve a reduction in traffic accidents that will result in the death of a victim, and that is all that matters. Of course, I agree with some forerunners who have talked about control, which, in my opinion, is truly flawed and until we know that every time you walk down the tunnel and on the highway you have to be equipped with what you need to be inside, that is, with radars, that we will know that every time you go down a little too much to be sanctioned for that. Until then, I doubt there will really be any effects. Of course, I think that this law is going in the right direction and that it is following all the solutions that the Minister has already talked about, that is, reducing mortality on our roads and that is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u52	Once again, I would like to make it clear that Minister Mate was deceiving the National Assembly when he spoke about police officers continuing to exercise control in the settlements. Read article 3 of this bill, which makes it very clear to the editors that they will exercise control on local roads and on state roads. That's the director's job. And with this law, the police are transferring tasks to the congregations, which is no longer within the competence of the Ministry to such an extent and in the manner that has been done so far. Otherwise, I hope that they will follow the rules and try to carry out other tasks, but as far as traffic on state roads is concerned, not anymore. And the editors will have to be trained to do so. However, if the minister believes that the police will continue to do so, then we can talk about unclear legislation, about the unclear powers that we have in our legal order on road safety. Which means that this ambiguity will cause serious problems and reduce road safety. The policeman will be able to say anytime, sorry, it's the director's business. We can imagine that the editor will also say that because Minister Mate spoke in parliament that the police would also exercise this control, he will say that this is the responsibility of the police officer, not of the editor. Well, and we are in a situation that is certainly not for example to the National Assembly, even less in my opinion, to the proposaler and even less to those who are dealing with road safety, which should be extremely considerate and sensitive to such solutions. Once again, I want to make it very clear that it is not enough for the Minister to speak here one thing, and it is important what is enshrined in the law. But practically this can happen exactly what I told you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Today's debate also shows that we are very strong in words, but when it comes to specific matters or when it comes to specific matters, they change a little. Given the fact that the President has already given up a little bit on the debate itself, I too will make little use of what he has given up on, but I will remain in this Article 6. I want to say the following. It is interesting to hear this debate, which developed at the very beginning of Article 6. There was talk of a broken marriage, of the duplicity of the government, of the minister, and so on. In doing so, I have a feeling that, while it may deceive me, it is quite a matter of the duality of those - not all of them, I must also specifically admit - who oppose these solutions and make such accusations. I'll explain what this is about. Most of us were sitting here a month ago when this same minister was defending himself for interpretation. And at that time, one of the charges or points of the accusation stated that the Minister was not enough or had done too little to be safe on the road, that he did not do enough. Today, when we have one possible measure, one I say, one possible action, but everything is wrong, the same people say. I agree, I agree that one of the possible measures is not the only one. I'm not saying that he's most happy, that he's the most important, but he's one of the measures that I'm going to mention later. Now it's exactly what the minister was accused of not doing, the indictment, why would we do that, why would we do that, so it's not right, and it's not going to work. I think we're going to have to focus a little bit and ask ourselves what we really want. As far as I can see, the intention is also this bill and, of course, our thinking goes in this direction to reduce the number of accidents with the worst consequences. Perhaps Article 6 is quite appropriate to think on this proposal. To say that it is not the right approach to refer to our conscience. Yeah, well, which one of us hasn't broken that he didn't exceed the maximum speed? That's what we do. That's what happens to us, but we have to pay. I admit it happened to me myself, but I paid. And then you ask yourself, you start thinking about what's more appropriate now, whether you're not careful driving through a village or wherever the restrictions are, over this prescribed speed, and then you pay. If your math works out, then you'll be doing the same thing. But I don't think anyone likes it. No one's getting away with it. And if we're looking at what's going on on our roads, what some people are doing, then I'd say those penalties are still too much. What do some people do? And then we can't be surprised if the consequences are what they are. And if one of us even violates speed, pays or maybe escapes - that doesn't mean that limits can't be that punishment can't be. When that happens, then we are looking for reasons and holes to avoid this in order to avoid paying the penalty. There's something else I'd like to remind you of. I'm not gonna say anything new, but we're all aware of it. When we were even before Schengen, when we had a border around and around our country, when we crossed the border, mainly west and north, we said 'uh', but here we are not to play, but here we have severe penalties. And they find you and they pummel you without any excuse. What was the problem? Did we become better citizens when we crossed the border? No, the punishments were those that somehow scared us because we calculated not to do it. But it's something, and I'll give it to the people who mentioned it. If we want this policy to be effective, then we probably have to fix something on recovery, something to improve, because in this area it really isn't everything as it should be. And just when we're driving abroad, and we're very careful there, so we don't go too fast, because that's where it applies to that speed, not tolerance plus, minus. If it's 60, you can drive up to 60. That we are very careful suggests that criminal policy is probably part of the success of our behaviour on the roads. There's a lot of talk about education, but it's also one of the possible measures, but it's in the long run. It probably can't be changed for a short time. On the other hand, I'd like to remind you of something. One of the possible measures, I think we've already talked about in this house, was an increase in the number of cameras and radars and so on. But then another thing comes along. This is nice, though, until we come to the point of legalizing it, but then we start talking about a big brother who keeps on controlling us and keeps on seeing everything and everything that we do. That's the other face of it. That's why I said we're very strong in words, and that's true. As long as we speak generally about what might be done or when it is necessary to interpret the Minister, what he has not done, when we come up with concrete measures, when we have concrete measures written on the table, then we are once again strong in words and we are looking for how it is not good, how it is not right, how such measures may not be the best, how something else could be done or not anymore. What proposals would no longer be put forward? All that matters is how you can make someone who's in front of us, how you can disable them, how you can do anything to prevent them from accepting it. It's a stick that has two ends. One is when I stand on the road myself and I want others to be careful that they don't run into me on the road or that they won't do me any harm, but the other is me, when I do anything on the road, I would think there would be no punishment for that. That's not how it works. What we expect of others is what others expect of us. Some measures should therefore be decided. And such measures are unpopular. That's a fact. When I'm in that role, when I'm caught in it, of course, it's uncomfortable. That's the way it is. But if we want to be successful in road safety as well, then we must somehow write this down and acknowledge that we must be more careful as well. Every man for himself. It's not right to just say things to others. And Article 6 when he's talking about this relationship. And we cannot separate a category that is more responsible, who are less responsible. Everyone has to move ahead of their own threshold and contribute their share, quite small. But since there are many of us on the roads, this very small proportion of all will bring some success. That's why, even though I know I'm going to be punished too, if I'm going to be wrong, whether I'm going to be willing or unwilling, but if I want to be in line on the road, then I have to take this on loan and be more careful myself. And that is why, although I am aware that the imposition of punishment, whatever it is, is not popular, but because it applies to me, then I can say that I will be responsible for myself and I will try to behave in such a way that I will not receive it. In this context, I support these measures, which are provided for by this law, because I also see myself there, and I think that no one can tell me because of this, that I think of something bad, because I can see myself in the form that this can happen to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u55	Thank you very much. But to the word I invite the messenger Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I have given up because I thought that in some order we would finally get to the amendments that I also wanted to talk about, and that is why I will have to talk about something else at the amendment to Article 6. However, first I would like to make one comment to the amendment or to Article 6. The essence of the problems related to this different approach to punishment, to the deepening of individual offenders, in fact, is not even the difference between professional and non-professional drivers, although in the articles relating to offences specifically committed by the driver, I will say that only professional drivers can do so because non-professional drivers with such types of driving and vehicles are not engaged, are also punished for the direct cause of the offence, the drivers themselves, the rest are the same, sometimes even for the minority lower than they were in the basic basic law. However, it is more important that not generally, but always the penalties for the employer and the responsible person, the employer, are not only the same, but significantly lower than they were in the basic basic law that we are amending. What do I mean by that? I want to say that the practice of this government, which is in this government, would not go down, but it clearly shows that it is under the exceptional influence of employers in the field of road transport. Why would I assume that? Also because we can draw a parallel, for example, with the law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport, where, interestingly, the penalty for the worker was converted, because it was previously a scale to exceed the driving time from half an hour to six hours, and there were different levels. The worker was given a single sentence, expressed in euros, which is kind of the middle of all these fines. While, interestingly, for the employer and the person responsible, a penalty of 400,000 to 800 thousand tolars has been translated into, look out, I think 800 euros - 800 euros is well below 400 thousand tolars - and for 800 thousand tolars, the penalty or fine of 2 thousand to 500 or something like that is at stake. What does that mean? This means that we give the employer a green light so that he can force his employee to break the rules. That's the main problem. I worked in a factory that had a lot of supplies from abroad, and I know what employers did to their drivers there. When he left Spain, he said he had to come with live fish to Isolo. And that's why he had to shorten his driving time to, let's say, 12 hours. And with a 40-ton truck, he drove like a rocket across Spain, France and Italy. And all the fines his employer paid him. And what a danger he caused! And this is what we now translate and translate into our legal practice. This is a basic problem for this article and for a number of others, because if we go systematically to look at articles that are not even open anymore, they systematically keep employers and those responsible for employers about the same or impose a lower penalty than in the previous law or on the basis of these amendments. If we go to another topic now, this is the subject of a concrete amendment, which is now being followed by colleagues from coalition parties or the first one written by the SDS, this is the amendment to Article 34. I think it is right that they have re- tabled the first paragraph of this Article 92 because it is not clear why this first paragraph has been deleted. Here I would point out that the penalties, which the amendment's proposal does not notice, are also reduced here. A teacher accompanying children in a bus or vehicle may also have a van accompanying a group of children with a lower sentence than he had before, a driver with a lower sentence, an employer with a lower sentence, great. In the most vulnerable road users, we have also found that employers, whom we can call a car lobby, have discounts. If that's right, then I think we've gone into very strange waters. And the third thing I'd like to say is, I'm backing up my colleague, Janko Webr. If we know how to read the law, it can be very well understood that the change in the authority of the municipal editorial service from the supervision of still traffic and public order and peace, which has already been already in the field of the law on editorial service, especially those who know what this means for the congregations, has not only been criticized, but also many serious warnings have been given, I am interested in how many congregations have been trained for all the activities envisaged by the law on red tape or at the time of the introduction of the law on red tape. We have now received additional tasks for our editors, and this is a measurement of the speed of traffic as well as traffic control on state roads in settlements. Since it is written in this sense that the editorial service carries out two additional indents, I think it is clear enough that this editorial service will work instead of the police who have performed these tasks in settlements so far. I think it's just a way to solve the problem of people leaving the transport police as well as other parts of the police. That these are solutions, as they call it, to throw up a burden on the other shoulders. In doing so, it is important to note and ask where the money needed to increase the number of liners to at least twice if not three times. Since you are careful, monitoring the speed in the settlements is a task that is done 24 hours a day, not just in the morning, 24 hours a day, and the guards will have to be on the ground all the time. This is said to be twice the cost for the wages of these people, not to mention that these people need to be properly trained and that it costs. Where's that money? You can't see that in this marriage. I think it is justified that the proposal is to extend the time to introduce this additional obligation of red tape services by municipalities to 24 months, as this is also a very short time. Remember how long it took to introduce editorial service in the law on editorial service, and this period, as far as I know, is just before the end, is still not qualified. At least we should know ju-jits and something else. I think that this law is actually a covert act of many rules that should apply. What needs to be done is the actual introduction of a safe driving school, psychosocial training and tests, especially for drivers who are chronic traffic violators and people who are actually endangering the safety of people in traffic, and that is what is left of the burden, let's say now I have to say that I was very happy when I read and saw that the AMZS has made a very difficult investment and built in Vransko or will soon open up in the Vransko safe driving training range. [[...]] The only range in this country. This country has not been able to train any organisation in Slovenia in order to be able to finance with the help of the country more than one polygon. I think we have come so far as to ask ourselves whether we are enacting laws to improve the situation or to cover up what our executive power is unable to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I just wanted to come by this point one more time. In particular, for this reason, I strongly reject all the findings of one of the predecessors who said that we had read to the minister in the interpretation that he did nothing for traffic safety, but now that he has proposed, we are attacking him with some false duplicity that he is a bad law. None of this is true. The same findings recorded in the interpretation are also repeated during the debate on this road traffic law, namely the lack of control, the observation that the police are withdrawing from the field. And this debate, and these articles on the introduction of municipal editors, or the transfer of essential parts of jurisdiction to municipal officials, just shows that those warnings, those perceptions in interpretation on the spot, and that such a law will make the security situation and the general situation on the ground only worse, will certainly not change. My colleague Weber said very nicely what could happen if 210 mayors and mayors seized this transfer of power in their own way. This will have practically 210 regimes, 210 approaches. Even now if we look in northeast Slovenia, when we have two municipalities on the state road, there is one limit of 50 on the same state road, the other limit of 70. It's probably all going to go up. And we point out that municipal registries are not prepared, not personnel, not financial ones, and we point out this in the adoption of the law on municipal registries as well as in this law. And that the main culprit wants to move to the mayor's level and if we've listened to why, not to buy 250 radars, that was one proposal here, and if the state can't do that now, what it's like without additional resources to imagine that every municipality will buy it for itself. How to obtain so many quality municipal editors if we know that the police themselves are having trouble getting new personnel. And that is why this debate is necessary or I repeat, this mistake that the coalition did not want to talk about solutions more broadly and before we brought this law so far, because as soon as there is talk about statistics, it is a very wide field of how the findings can be interpreted, but if the reduction of fines in the law is justified by the fact that there were only 31 violations in statistics in two years, this argument is that fines of 25 to 50% are reduced for carriers or their employers. It's very simple, there was no violation because there was no control. And this is actually with a steady traffic, with freight traffic, with a lack of respect for traffic signalling, there are a lot of problems and these obviouss here, these warnings that we are giving, for no other reason, than for this law to be rectified and that this road transport law would be good, which people, drivers, citizens and citizens would respect, but not that we have a law that probably has a basic message that needs to be feared. And if we are afraid of everything in this country, now also this new code that will introduce these drastic, non-lifely high penalties, we know that if children are afraid in school, they are less able, less capable if a person is afraid to make even more mistakes, it is also with athletes and it will be the same with drivers. Then, when we also have such articles, which we want to soften again with the amendment, that if a person three times overlooks the limit and crosses the speed through the settlement instead of 50, he will drive three times in a row 61, that is the basis for impounding his motor vehicle. This is likely to be a case that is too harsh for other infringements and other penalties, and this amendment is also tabled below. As it is said, we only make comments to change this law and to be respectful, not afraid of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! With this amendment to Article 6, we asked ourselves at the beginning of this discussion who will exercise control of this article or who will sanction, say, this article. We asked ourselves earlier who is even in charge of road safety in this country, as today the two ministries, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport, are proposing this law. And even after the government's decision, both ministers are supposed to be sitting here today, and unfortunately there is no longer Minister Matei, because he has some other responsibility. However, see, around this Article, who will supervise or sanction this Article. If someone is caught on a state road outside the settlement, of course, it will be a police officer, if someone is sanctioning it on a state road inside the settlement, it would normally be a municipal director. It is said that at least Dr. Zhagar, who is competent and has proposed a law on municipal regulation, should sit in these benches. Police are withdrawing from many areas, and will now withdraw from control of traffic on state roads through settlements. It is frantic that more than 40% of state roads have already been built. This means that more than 40% of state roads pass through settlements. Look at this map of state roads that run through the settlements. More than 40% of state roads lead through settlements, it is said that more than 40% of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia will have control over traffic management of municipalities, municipal officials, and not police officers who are trained to do so have made appropriate schools, while municipal officials will normally have to train this business and we will somehow get, under terms, some "trained police officers", and in fact municipal officials who will oversee road traffic regulations and implement this law on more than 40% of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you. Here you go, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I think that this debate still requires some response from the Government to some rather specific questions and initiatives that, as far as they are acceptable to us, we believe that, in the context of what we thought, when we prepared the law together with the Transport Ministry, of course, we have taken into account. Proportionality between those permanent, worse violators and other road users. This is very difficult to define in law. Actually, it would be discrimination. The one who first committed an offence with no serious consequences would therefore be less responsible than the one who did it several times. Of course, then it is very difficult to define transgressions here exactally. It is true, however, that the law also imposes different sanctions for multiple serious violations, including the removal of a means of transport, as one of the measures that we believe will result in a positive result. Normation of police tasks in the field of transport safety has been exposed. See, the police do not have standardized tasks in such a way that a certain quantity of traffic safety measures is required at individual working hours on the road, but on the contrary. Police officers must appear where the worst violations are already recorded, where the worst consequences are. And it's been like that for a while. At least within the mandate of this government, this team, which is the Ministry and the police as the body of the platoon, is working to ensure that any standardisation in the field of police work is not in practice. And I think so. As for the police in the cities to withdraw, in the field of transport safety, I must say or add to what Mr Minister has already said. The main purpose is to calm the pace, which, of course, brings this to our marriage. Of course, the police don't retreat. Editors are an additional quality in setting up a better transport safety situation in Slovenia. And that's not even stated in the law as a bond. This is indicated as an option. But the thing about the local community is whether it will decide whether or not to take this form. Of course, it is essential to stress in this regard that the responsibility for safety in the field of transport security is also in the local community and in the community, and that it starts in kindergarten. As far as the vehicle's seized. Look, these are the powers that are still on the force. Article 238.a provides in particular that the police have jurisdiction in the seizure of a vehicle. From there, of course, the courts. Editors, the editorial service won't do it, can't do it, and doesn't have the legal basis to do it. Under this law, editors would only have the right to monitor the speed of traffic in local communities, on local and state roads passing through settlements, and to control and detect infringements when drivers fail to take the red light into account at traffic lights. Of course, editors do not have the authority to stop, control and so on, but it is their work, if I may say so, of a more administrative nature. Recording infringements and sending appropriate payment orders. They don't have the authority the police have to stop the drivers. If that is how you understood this legal provision, then you misunderstood it. With regard to Article 106, which you have mentioned several times today, that we do not have any amendments and the government has not proposed it, I must say, of course, if the amendment to set the deadline for the sub-legislative acts is to be considered and decided on what our proposal will be in this regard. But I'm sure it's important. We understand that this may also be a complication, but the complication may also be a purely simple invitation to tender for the operator to issue driving licences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u63	Thank you. Since it is still of interest, I am opening a re-application for the debate on Article 6 and the amendment of the Member Group Indeed to this Article. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't do it again with this amendment, which is essentially the most important thing in this law. All others are not open and are more or less likeable, and in some cases this benefit will still appear to professional drivers who have been presented by the position in the preamble. Let me remind you, on 29 June 2005, the National Assembly had already discussed the possibility of providing professional drivers with a certain benefit in reducing or reducing penalties. And then we made a catastrophic mistake, ladies and gentlemen! At that time, we increased the permitted base pressure on state roads. Many of you debated how the state roads were overloaded. Taking into account the Lands Act, which will also bring weaknesses to local communities, they will, in fact, be responsible for the maintenance of these roads, with the cost of money that will go out of the budget. A dozen of this money is intended if the law is adopted in the form that the Government essentially proposes for hospitals, schools, kindergartens, roads and public institutions. A dozen of that money. Then these state roads will get worse. And here's the key problem, under the condition of safe transport. These are the roads. And we have already pointed out that the state should think differently. Not to introduce new repressive methods, to increase penalties, to abolish the preventive council for road transport education and education, to introduce in essence new driving licences that will in no way help to increase road safety and thus reduce mortality. About the truckers. Respectable profession is that we will not be misunderstood. With one leg in the grave, as they say, they're those people. And yet, look, this country has done nothing for this kind of traffic. If we had followed the example of Austria, we would have introduced trainloads, directed heavy transit cargo to railways, subsidised transit transport by carriers, and thus reduced the participation of trucks on motorways, on state roads. However, it is imperative that the countries of the road be unloaded. These are the points we want to point out. The heavier transit cargo must be diverted to the railways in most cases and also to the motorways. This isn't happening. The city's cores are overloaded. And here's the key problem for accidents that happen in traffic. In order not to be misunderstood in the Slovenian National Party, I stress once again that we have nothing against this profession. He's a respected profession. And it did not lead to the imposition of a new subsidy after two years just so that the government would not have pressure on the transport ministry by truckers, new benefits, a new reduction in penalties. These problems will remain. The roads will still be such as, holed up, there will still be a burdened border crossing in the eastern part of Europe. They're already beating houses in the seams. You could've seen and heard that before, and nobody cares. Today, we are saying that we will increase security by introducing new driving licences and increasing penalties. Please! It's demagogy. The amendment makes sense, and the law is meaningless, and in fact, I don't know, it's causing new problems. If he's going to be such a cosmetic fixer, I'd like to see the responsible person. Today, at least the Secretary of State will tell you what this responsible person will be for the result that will be seen in one year. Death on the road is on the rise. And the fact is, there are increasing numbers of road users who have increasingly poor transport conditions. And those highways we built are what they are. An example of the Troyan tunnel, where you can see that in fact the restriction on the new highway section is shameful, 60 kilometers, 40 kilometers, on the new highway section, and no one is responsible for it. It also stimulates anxiety, and it also fosters a new blood tax that we all have to pay. Not last but not least, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Interior and Transport. Answer me, please, when will you make systematic arrangements for safe and orderly road traffic? When are you going to relax essentially and make a commitment to the heavier transit cargo to go to the railways and thereby increase environmental security in Slovenia, which is just a water collection area, if we look a little bit more closely at the geographical picture? We would like to hear these answers, but we are again and again in the parliamentary bench this year, twice in this mandate, the unnecessary corrections due to the pressures of a particular environment, which is always there with the minister and is plagued by the fact that the penalties are too high, that there is also an irregular situation for truckers in the country. I agree that's true. Only at the expense of increasing the risk to all other citizens and road users can we adopt such a law. I'm sorry, this is demagogy, what we do. And I'd like to see the person responsible if you could tell me the name and surname of the day that will be responsible for tomorrow's greater blood tax. Tell me, who will that be? Will it be Mr. Secretary of State, who will it be? Who will be responsible for one and a half children on Slovenian roads tomorrow? We have them for one class today. And with such matters, you will only increase mortality. The law is only appropriate to be thoroughly purified and withdrawn from the procedure. And let's think about what you're doing. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u65	Dear Members! We are not discussing the law on road construction. This is not a general debate on the law either, it has already been. We are discussing Article 6 and the amendment, which reads as follows: Add a new fifth paragraph, which reads as follows: "The amount of 30 thousand dollars shall also be replaced by the amount of 250 euros in paragraphs 16 and 17 of paragraph 102. Articles." We do not want to limit the debate, it is very broad, but have a little sense of the subject of debate, please. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I myself have been waiting for the opportunity to discuss individual amendments, but the debate has actually gone much longer than usual. However, I would just like to read very clearly once again to the Government representative, who said that Minister Mate was right when he spoke about the fact that directors can exercise traffic control. Sadly, the law says otherwise. The law makes it very clear: In order to ensure safe and unhindered road transport, municipal officials regulate and supervise traffic on the roads of self-government local communities and state roads in the village. They control traffic by automatic measuring devices for traffic control, in which offences are documented in a graphic manner. It makes it very clear that "the editors regulate and supervise." I understood the government's representative that the officers were supposed to monitor and then tell the police, "Yes, but this one has exceeded some speed three times and let him take the vehicle." If nothing else, there is a very clear interpretation missing from this law: What does it mean to regulate and supervise? So there won't be any of these dilemmas. As long as these dilemmas are, I think it's right to remind them, because when we talk about road safety, the dilemma should not be about jurisdiction. The fact is that the law, I repeat, makes it very clear that regulating and overseeing traffic on local and state roads in the village is the responsibility of the editors, the jurisdiction of the municipalities. And that's the text of the law. Any other interpretation seems to me to be a real deviation from the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u67	Thank you. Although you do not deserve a word thanks for not saying anything about an amendment that converts 30,000 tolars or replaces 250 euros. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I must say that I hope that the criteria for the debate have not changed now, because otherwise I would not have taken the floor. Given that the President was allowed to have one part of the general debate. And, uh, Mr. President, I'm going to be very brief. I am of the opinion that, given that some of the predecessors, particularly those who are also mayors, have highlighted a serious issue that concerns not only this law but also others, I believe that certain matters should be heard. I would like to say that, at least I am of the opinion that it is good that the general debate on this law, in which both members of the coalition and the opposition have also discussed in certain segments of this law, has been quite critical, has drawn attention to certain matters that would still make sense to correct or correct to the second reading or debate today in the National Assembly. Somehow I find that the law is in almost the same content as it was then. So I myself have certain concerns about the level of punishment, regarding the proportionality between penalties. This, in particular, introduces this Article 6 or the amendment to this Article 6. Why did I mention the previous debaters? Because I must say that certainly those who discuss these problems know the matter quite well. Those of us who are mayors in local communities know what problems we are dealing with, precisely because some of the laws have been adopted well-intentioned, perhaps at that point in time solutions that have somehow shown that they will be good, but in practice many times it happens that it is then completely different. I will conclude by saying that I am not most satisfied with the proposed solutions to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you. Since I've noticed more hands, I'm reopening my application. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u70	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment to Article 6, because it seems to me that it is true that those beginners who carry out public transport are more penalised as former drivers. Well, that is, in fact, contrary to the basic purpose of this law or any law that includes punishment. The penalties are to limit the various individual outages involved in any process. Here we have a transport law and if the penalty was to increase transport safety in Slovenia, let's say that we can also partly agree to it, but of course we can't agree that the penalties are then quasi social or I don't know what kind of corrections. That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the pursuit of the amendment, as proposed by the Zares Group, I would like to point out once again, not how many times has it been said that we must follow, some proportion between the offence committed and the person who committed the offence. Various savages were mentioned on the roads, professional drivers, ordinary drivers, and among the possible consequences, although this is very difficult. The possible consequences or the worst consequences can happen to each of us today when he goes to the cafeteria, and God forbid that this happens. But I would like to point out once again to professional drivers or you in this government that you are liable to a fine of EUR 120 if they make mistakes in Article 102, paragraphs 15. Take into account the proportionality of the penalty, paragraph 103. And if you read the third paragraph talking about what's forbidden while riding a bike. The penalty is the same, for 4 euros there is a difference. Someone who rides a bike will pay the same as a bus driver if he releases a wheel steering wheel if he lifts his feet with a pedal, if he drives, pulls or pushes other vehicles if he transports objects that interfere with the rider during the ride. This is bullshit. Don't tell me that he has a biker, my old mom goes to the bike market every Saturday, and he walks across the meadow with his legs up and out of the way so that she doesn't get sprayed, the same responsibility as the bus driver who carries the kids. Let's be serious, please! However, as far as road safety is concerned, in road safety, I have nowhere to see the ban on the overcoming of two trucks on the highway. And I'll caricine the highway between Maribor and Ljubljana. Some truck starts speeding up in Slovenska Bistrica and does not make it to Slovenski Konjice. Not to mention how fast he pulls off to get past another truck. That's not what this marriage is about. Let us see again what are the biggest causes of fatal accidents in our country. The speed came first. We've narrowed the speed down. It's always limited. Doesn't it make more sense that if we're already raising penalties and we're already thinking that the height of the penalty affects how someone's going to drive in their car, I don't believe it. I don't believe that punishment would be essential, different. Maybe not financial, maybe some other. We heard the case, and it was very banal for the person who did it to go to the pathology to do public works. Let him see what he can do. You don't think that, I'll say, if you already want to change the thinking of an individual with a drastic punishment, one such measure that would help if he saw it. If we go any further, I'll try to stick to article 6 of the law. The same applies to professional drivers. I consider professional drivers to be people doing their job. In our work, many people have sinned, even though we should not. We have given them a level of alcohol 0.0, we have given them penalties, both for employers and for those who carry out transport, although at this point we have prescribed only the penalty, we have not raised them, even though it would not affect the reduction of traffic accidents in your opinion. On the other hand, we take away all his driving permits if, in a private life or during the duration of his leave to which he is entitled, we take away all his driving permits if he violates the law when he is not on duty. I'll caricature it. I'll simplify it. A professional driver who comes home from driving gets usually paid his job, drives by moped, wherever he goes, commits a traffic offence, for which the penalty of withdrawal of a driver's licence is at risk, is taken away from him for all categories. Is that fair from these people? That's not what you were thinking. This law has simply slowed down, succumbed to pressure when it comes to performing a professional function and throwing it at us, and today, on the basis of the victims of the sad victims of traffic accidents, we will all try to defend this law here.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u74	By the way, it was just that from nine on, this was happening, which is why you tricked my colleague, Janko Vebra. I don't think it was right, Mr. President. However, I would like to say one more thing about the amendment to Article 6. If amendments had been adopted, which had followed roughly the same logic as this amendment in dealing with the working body, then there would not have been so much debate as then spread into impossible waters. Why am I saying this? Because, for example, colleague Aurelio Juri made an amendment to Article 32, which had not been adopted, he dealt with the same subject. The same was true of Article 30. Under Article 31, none of the current amendments have been so consistent that none of the current amendments' proponents would be so consistent that they would also go and essentially correct this inequality, particularly in the case of automotive companies, in particular businesses, employers, who, therefore, have continuous discounts throughout the law. This is where she fell, I'll say, the discussion fell on the driver, who is in fact the least guilty of all matters, because drivers are violating, I'm talking about professional drivers, most of the time they're violating regulations - I'm not talking about alcoholization, I'm not even mentioning this - I'm talking about speed, speed, violations that also concern transported entities, I'm going to say. So employers have a strong discount. And here I think this marriage has the greatest flaw, and that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to Article 34 and debate; I am putting the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to this Article into discussion. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to Article 99 and I am putting the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors to this Article into discussion. Anybody want to talk? Mr Posedel. Anyone else? It's a number of deadlines, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So we have tabled an amendment to Article 99 in the Parliamentary Group, because it seems to us that there is a great danger in the law that certain unreasonable acts will occur in the implementation of this article, such as this article, could arise, in the event that a person is entitled to EUR 250 and the penalty point is already prescribed for a case of speed overrun in a settlement of over 10 to 20 kilometres per hour, which would mean that a three-time offence of driving across a village at a speed of 61 kilometres would result in a car seizure. This seems to us that this punishment is inconsistent with some of the other proposed penalties, and we therefore propose that this article be amended in the proposed form.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask my colleagues from the Zares Group, because when I read their amendment to Article 99, I see that the amendment is also referred to in the fourth line in Article 40, paragraph 10. And I am simply the tenth paragraph of Article 40, so I do not see this text in Article 99. However, if I speak, Mr President, we are of the opinion that the amended bill covers all the worst violations and I would also like to say that we cannot agree with the deletion of part of the third paragraph, since this could therefore mean that the worst violations referred to in paragraph 1 would be purely infringements for which a driving ban measure is prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thank you. I only notice Mr. Posedel wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u80	Well, maybe just a short answer. The other articles are enough, even if you don't find the 40th, there's enough arguments to fix it. Above all, I hope that Mr President will allow the possibility of amendments to correct these imbalances, which are mentioned in the law, and this case, which I have pointed out that there may be a threefold overrun of 61 kilometres per hour through the village at the time of the 50th limit, even to the withdrawal of a motor vehicle, one of the illogical or possibly ill-considered penalties and that the time for discussion, both in the general debate and in particular in the Committee on Transport, I repeat, was the wish expressed and unfortunately voted on the Committee that the public presentation of opinions could very precisely define all those cases which will in practice prove to be lifeless and which will, in other words, be a very good intention of this law to improve road safety, bring about in real implementation and implementation of this law to a substantial new and probably socially questionable case of implementation. So I suggest we at least try to work this out. But for everything else, it's too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then we move on to 106. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.20. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. It's a second-hand proposal for a trade law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the present, shall we wait for him to join us? No, no, no. Then we proceed first with the representative of the Committee on the Economy, who, as a parent working body, addressed the proposal of the law. I give my word to the vice president. He's not here either. Or go ahead. I give the floor to Mr Kontic on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the absence of those who should present the content of this law, it may be right to say why this law is going on. Especially in the part where we assess in the Group of Social Democrats that this law is worthy of support. If we remember two months ago, we considered the proposal for a trade law and then the story almost stopped when the law was being considered in that part that regulated the minimum or that set the level of education needed to provide these services. Since this was somehow exempted from this law at the time, we requested the Minister of Economy's commitment to draw up a proposal in the coming months to remedy this lack of law. As we can see in this law, this is now regulated, and this also leads Members and Members of the Social Democrats to decide that this law, this proposal of the Trade Act, is also supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. Dear Members and Members! In the New Slovenia Group we did not oppose or agree with the content of the new trade law at the last reading. I must say that we support the Ministry of Economy's proposal in this law to remove administrative obstacles that were somehow possible under the existing law. We also support the possibility of additional activities in trades, and we certainly believe that this solution, which has somehow been resolved to the satisfaction of both coalition and opposition Members now, regarding the deregulation of professions, is also appropriate. However, I must say that in the New Slovenia Group we will not support the Trade Act, so not this law in the future unless the content expressed by citizens and citizens is included in the law, expressed in the referendum, which was announced or voted closed on Sundays. Let me mention that in New Slovenia we are particularly disappointed because literally the three of us, the four wholesalers who literally rule the entire Slovenian market, have overwhelmed the entire Slovenian market, and on this basis we can find out because of all the events of the last time we are talking about an enormous increase in food prices, the cartel arrangements, that it would be reasonable for these wholesalers to have a little bit of patience at the time so that they would not have imagined that they were all possible, and this opportunity is too late. Let me conclude with this, as I have already said, that it is because of the lack of respect for the referendum will of the trade law that we will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the law is to propose, in particular, to enforce the operating conditions of all economic operators offering goods to consumers in order to remove the obligation to keep records and to increase the competitiveness of traders, to satisfy the consumer's needs in the direction of additional offers. A major change in the new law compared to what has been and is in force is the provision of minimum educational conditions for the conduct of trade activities. The proposed law merely lays the groundwork and the more concrete implementation itself is left to the law or to the rule itself. The aim of the law ahead of us must be, and above all, to provide adequate protection for consumers, employees and the environment, while at the same time following the development of trade activities. The most controversial is encouraged by the most substantial change in this law compared to the last law, which is a change in the minimum conditions for the conduct of trade activities, which has also been worded in the previous proposed law and in addition to technical conditions, the minimum level of education for typical jobs or trade works. From the point of view of ensuring the quality of the offer and the specific performance of the profession vis-à-vis the consumer and from the point of view of providing greater supply and thus ensuring greater competitiveness with a view to ensuring greater choice of quality products, of course also with an acceptable and reasonable price. The law therefore brings some reliefs that will allow the conditions to be levelled, and the question is whether this will also mean opening up new trades and whether it will be a better offer and, above all, greater profits in trade. We believe that this law is a compromise solution and, in our belief, a positive basis for finally bringing it together in the National Assembly and also for commercial activity, especially for users, consumers as an added value. We have left responsibility for the consequences of the law to the competent minister, and it is also up to him whether the implementation of the new law will make trade more competitive, which of course we would like. We believe that with the great centres of today's day, many smaller trades in Slovenia have lost their existence, thus also an opportunity for older citizens, especially the rural areas where these shops have been closed by the concentration of large commercial networks and houses in Slovenia. We expect that the sub-legislative acts will set minimum technical and other conditions that will ensure, in the first place, consumer and environmental safety, the quality of the offer, while at the same time making it possible to compete and, hopefully, also lower prices of products in our shops. The Slovenian People's Party will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me say that our parliamentary group has been actively involved in the adoption and frequent amendment of this law and has advocated a large part of those principles, including those of the Government or the competent ministry, as regards the ban on restricting Sunday work and working on holidays, as regards the greater free initiative, the additional supply in trades, including deregulation, but in a limited sense. This law has changed so many times in recent years and in the last period, if we can ironise a little bit, that it makes a lot of sense to mention Oscar Wilde and the fashion that Wilde said was so bad that it has to be changed every six months. We acted in such a way that we did not give him peace all the time. Following the last rejection of this law, the Minister responsible for this area has drawn up a new proposal, which is in fact almost identical to the previous proposals and has taken into account the protests of a number of Members and Members, as well as individual parliamentary groups concerning deregulation of professions. Therefore, the only essential change worth mentioning is that, apart from technical conditions, other conditions are laid down in the law. In doing so, we have in mind, above all, the educational standards or the minimum necessary level of education needed to carry out not the tradesman’s profession as an entrepreneur, but the profession of the seller or seller. Although the ministry has always advocated the thesis of complete deregulation, it is the only European one. It talked about how other regulation is merely an administrative obstacle, how there is no problem of employers not training their employees, and how this will have no effect on wage levels if this complete relaxation is allowed, which is a matter of deregulation of professions. We've been a lot against that. Even in the DeSUS Group, not only in this law, but also in previous laws, the guise law, for example, is one of them, we have opposed that anyone can carry out a profession and that there is no need to obtain any formal education for it. This is now changing and, of course, it is changing that the Minister's proposal, which will draw up a regulation setting out what minimum education is needed to carry out this profession. This is a matter of trust, but we expect, as the Minister has announced, to cooperate with all social partners, the Chamber of Commerce and the Trade Workers' Union, for which it is crucial. We believe that they will find a common language, although there is some doubt as to the proposal already put forward on the home labour body, namely that, apart from formal education, they would also allow knowledge through work experience, as proposed by the Chamber of Commerce and which the unions did not at the time object. We have even come to the conclusion that they should try to harmonize by this meeting of the National Assembly. I'm sorry. This harmonisation has not been made, so the amendment, which would have made this decision in more detail, has not been on the table and is left to negotiations in the preparation of the Rules of Procedure. In the DeSUS Group, we will support this bill, as proposed by the Ministry, because we estimate that those positive salaries of the law, as previously refused. In addition, it takes into account the requirements of trade unions and individual parliamentary groups that minimum standards should also be introduced with regard to the education and performance of the profession of the seller or seller.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Trade Act was, as it were, the subject of a hearing at the National Assembly, and we have already adopted it in the previous year, and the fact is that the correction was in some way necessary. The full deregulation of the profession would also constitute discrimination against the trade profession and therefore we welcome the Government's intention to substantially amend the amendment of this law compared to the one in force so far, and lays down a minimum educational condition for the conduct of business in trade. Only the basis was given in the bill and the Regulation should actually regulate more detailed requirements. It is contentious that we have essentially given all the powers to the Minister to draw up this rule ourselves. According to the Slovenian National Party, this can be: any government - new requirements and any government - new conditions. Who is the minister who can prescribe the conditions for performing a job in a certain profession? The Minister is only a person in charge of ensuring the legality of all business within the Ministry and ensuring the interest of citizens and in some ways prosperity. But he's not a person who could have that kind of authority. It is therefore possible from this point of view that we have given the Minister such powers. Today there will be one rule, the other. Now we have a minimum prescribed level of education, and it is just as we know that in the previous law this has been done domestically, over the finger, in the sense that everyone is good for the trader and because we do not have traders, we will allow everyone to do it. That's not true. Of course, it is true that we do not have traders, but it is not the fault of individuals who do not choose to do so, but it is the fault of employers for giving such low personal income to those who know that they are subject to personal responsibility. And today being a trader also means that you need to know certain articles, because even in terms of counseling in front of customers, you advise, give certain opinions, and in some ways also prevent - customers can also complain about what they were told when they bought something when they think they were misled. So, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the privilege of trade tycoons, if I may call them, is too great and that there are also large profits at the expense of workers. They are not disputed, you know, working hours or openings, closing shops, by when workers will have to be, or on Sundays, or on Saturdays, it is not even disputed if the reward is appropriate, if the salary is also paid, if the absence of a family is paid, if the Sunday allowance is paid, if the night allowance is paid and the overtime is paid as it should be. However, we know that in this area, too, our work inspectorate has been denied and that traders and traders have been heavily divided and exploited. I am afraid that with this act, which the Ministry will have the right to prepare, this exploitation will be even more. Since the Chamber of Commerce is quite a strong lobby, as seen in the previous law, even carriers; they too are likely to pressure the Minister with all the energy and force that one or another minister will probably soon be subject to a variety of interests. In short, I believe that this law is also suitable for the social partners, as has been shown in the discussion on the labour market, and has reached a broad consensus in the debate. Of course, it is weak, and amendments will also warn about a number of things, but in the Slovenian National Party we will support this law and hope that some amendments from the opposition will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I must say that I am truly pleased that the Minister of Economy has also been able to attend the meeting. Why? Because the president of this government, President Janez Janša, for high inflation and poor social standing, as a result of the rise in the price of life, found the culprit. And it's this guy, or they're traders. Domestic merchants, i.e. capital owners. I have, even if you don't believe me, the words in white, the words of Prime Minister Janez Janša, spoken on September 4, 2007. The president blames inflation on, among other things, the embezzlement of merchants. Today, we are re-adopting the law drawn up by his Minister, the Minister for the Economy and whose main objective is, and I will read what is stated in the explanation of the law: to increase the competition of the trader in terms of meeting the needs and wishes of consumers. Also in the direction of additional offers such as food preparation, bread and pastries and so on. Look, the same government is looking for responsibility for 6.4% of annual inflation for rising prices in merchants. The same government that comes before parliament with a law protecting capital owners, traders. So those who are guilty of inflation in our country. I wonder where he is and what is the purpose of the government of Janez Janša, a respected colleague and colleague. Something doesn't fit in the whole story. I said this law was also written on the skin of capital owners, merchants. Fifteen members have a law. But I can't find a single article in these 15 articles, or if you want, a single specific sentence that would protect workers under the Trade Act. This article, this sentence is not in this law. A major change is expected to be under minimum educational conditions for trading activities. But the bill only provides the basis for a sublegal act determined by the Minister of State. So this minister who drafted a law written exclusively for capital owners, traders. Why are the minimum educational conditions - these are the conditions that have already been disputed in the previous law, the previous government law, which fell because of the veto voted - why do these minimum educational conditions simply not enter into the law? Why do we have to wait for some sub-legislative act of a man, a minister who has a very clear direction in the context of the legal regulation of this content or this area? Whether there will be a minimum education requirement for typical commercial works, secondary or primary school, I apologize, primary education. I don't know. Or will I receive an answer today, given that the deadline is 15 days after the adoption of this law when the law comes into force. At that time, a submarital act must be drawn up. Article 8 of this Act also refers to the operating time of inspections. The trader shall determine the operating time of the seller in accordance with his business decision and taking into account the needs of the consumers. Again, I'm asking you what's the interest here or protecting the worker. On the one hand, we are hearing that we must withdraw from a consumer-oriented society because consumption is evil. This is what the President of this Government, his man, his minister comes with a law that clearly speaks about taking into account the interests and wishes of traders, including in setting up working hours, not workers. Those workers who work for 400 or less euros a month's net salary. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Such a law, which is so vague, so unprotected, and which leaves a very open door to those sub-laws, will not be supported by the Group of Unbound Members of Lip.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u94	Your Honors are here! We've talked about this marriage a lot. In the previous version of this law, everything was essentially the same as in this one, but a veto was voted in the State Council, so now we have a new version that makes a difference. This change is that the Minister prescribes occupations that are typical in trade. Of course, these professions will be aligned with the Chamber of Commerce and Trade Unions, because I think it is only in this way that it is right to harmonise this and it is also promised that these professions will be harmonised and then prescribed. We have heard enough deception and would point out that marriage is good, and that it is not written down, the protection of the worker in this law. But it's not this sector law that deals with the protection of an employee, but it's governed by labour law. Thus, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support this law, but in fact it does not change from a transitional version, except as I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. Mr Slavinec, you were not in the hall, so I also ask those present whether we can also allow Mr Slavinec. [[...]] Is anyone against it? It's not. Mr. Slavinac, please have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much to my colleagues and colleagues for this permission, although Mr President has overlooked me. I really did not sit in my seat, but I was in the Chamber, which I also argued by knowing exactly what was the progress of the presentation of the groups. Well, anyway, at the LDS Club, of course, we welcome the fact that in the new proposal of the Trade Act, there is no deregulation of the professions of the trader, which has actually caused the first law to fall, one of the most important reasons. While the new bill no longer provides for full deregulation of professions, but ensures a minimum level of education, on the one hand it provides a higher level, an appropriate level of trade, and, of course, we also eliminate negative competitiveness, thus negative selection, which would certainly happen with complete deregulation. Therefore, if there was no condition regarding the level of education, employers could employ even lower levels of education and this would reduce their remuneration, which would of course make their situation significantly worse. The next thing is an equalisation of operating conditions, which, of course, we also support at the LDS. This is an equalization of the operating conditions of all economic operators offering consumer goods, then the abolition of the obligation to keep records in trade, and we also support the increase of competition in trades in terms of meeting consumer needs and wishes, including in terms of additional supply and not least preparation of food, bread, pastries, coffee, juices and the like, which, of course, can be consumed in trade. And this is where the principle of equality is now guaranteed, which is not the case in the previous proposal, because any economic operator offering goods to consumers should operate under different conditions, different tax rates and this bill is now abolished. For all of this, but mainly because of the abolition of deregulation of professions and that the proposed rational solution is now when a minimum level is required, but it does not prescribe a specific profession, because we see that many times, too, as has been the case with the LDS Club, we support the trade law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you. Since there was no minister at the beginning of the point and some questions were raised to him, I also ask the following questions: Can we allow him 5 minutes of explanation, as on behalf of the proponents? Since no one objects, please, Mr. Secretary. The National Assembly gives you generously [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u98	I am pleased that today the National Assembly is very effective and that the preceding item has completed almost two hours before it was originally predicted. I plan my schedule so about plus, minus an hour, but I see you should plus, minus two hours. Well, Mr. President. My point should be on if it was like you said it would be around 2:00, but it was at 12 and that's why I was a little late. The Trade Act is a modern, simple law. It answers all the questions, and that's the trade law. This is not the Consumer Protection Act, this is not the Labour Relations Act, and I think it would be legally very unconstitutional if all these issues were dealt with separately in each field law. Thus, the trade law should also address the elements of legal protection, the legal protection of workers, because this is part of another law. This, of course, is Mrs. Žgajner Tavš's answer, if you miss these provisions. It is true that the Trade Act is written to enable the development of trade activities, the competitiveness of trade activities in the Republic of Slovenia and to upgrade existing, somewhat obsolete legislation. For we want merchants and trade groups, according to the measure of the consumer, according to European practice. Because of this, of course, consumers and employees will have something in the end. There is no way that we can link this law to the debate on inflation and also to the debate on who is contributing to the latest auctions or in particular to food irritations. I believe that you have also read several articles or very convincing information on how much input prices for raw materials have been raised for trade networks in Slovenia. So, from the producers, and then, of course, how much did they end up raising retail prices? And if we compare this with the European average, we can see that in Slovenia prices have roughly increased by suppliers and that in Slovenia retail prices have increased significantly more than in Europe. This is also a clear conclusion as to who had cut off from the last impressions. And that's the data, if we don't believe them, then we can condemn so freely just at least, which was typical of one of the performances. I also need to be very clear, I have before me a report from the working body and a performance by Ambassador Žgajner Tavš, who said that the law is bad, that it would have to be different, better, and the parliamentary group has not tabled a single proposal. Not a single one, i.e. a specific concern against this text, and I cannot avoid assessing that it is a political, general disqualification that has no concrete content and no well-intentioned objective. Once again, I am pleased, honourable Members and Members, that so complemented by the key requirements that have come from the Member States following the establishment of a certain minimum level of education for typical trade professions, this compromise, which will achieve support and I believe that this law will significantly enhance the quality of trade services in the Republic of Slovenia, in order to make a positive contribution to consumers and also to workers in trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you. We are now really finishing the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the amended bill today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - that's a second defensively proposed law on the participation of profit workers. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. According to the Ministry of Economy and Government's assessment, workers are also clearly entitled to part of the profits, as they coexisted it and such a solution allows for higher productivity, higher motivation and, consequently, longer-term higher profitability of companies. That is why such a solution is for the benefit of both workers and their owners and employers. At the Ministry of Economy, there are solutions to these promises, which are already a pre-eminent promise and which are written in the context of economic or economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia, in order to address this issue by reaching a solution in the end, not in a populist way that does not lead to a solution. And it is right today that we can read the comments of some of the parliamentary groups that they are for compulsory membership. However, honourable Members and Members, this is strongly opposed by one of the social partners and this solution would not be possible because I do not hope to come to Parliament with a solution that is not coordinated between the social partners and which has not been agreed on by the Economic and Social Council. We have prepared such a solution and therefore this solution is also based on a compromise, a threefold compromise between the Government, between workers' representatives and workers' representatives and between employers' representatives. So, the law will apply to all capital companies, equity companies, d.o.o.-is, European equity companies, command companies and so on. It lays down two schemes of participation in profits in cash and in equity, where the share scheme can only be applied to public shareholders, as the problem of determining fair, fair prices is a problem in non-disclosure companies and in d.o.o., which can raise more questions than it closes. Participation in profits is voluntary, both for workers and for society. Since it is the company that decides whether to introduce the scheme itself or at the initiative of workers, the proposal of the law encourages them by means of a tax relief system, it is very important to emphasise this. The principles of equality and non-transferability and carelessness are also principles. The company can pay workers a maximum of 20% of the profits per business year, we are talking about net profit and not more than 10% of the annual gross wage, these are limits and not more than EUR 5000 per worker. It is very important that the system of tax reliefs for workers and employers, for both, actually introduces and applies that magnet, that incentive to reach an agreement at all. The benefits vary according to time and time, as long as the agreement and payment is made, if one year or more, the tax relief is 70%, both for workers and employers, and if the period of payment is more than three years, the tax relief is 100%. Therefore, according to the cash scheme, participation in profits is taxed as income from the labour relationship, which means that they are accounted for and also relieved for social security contributions and, in the case of a share scheme, the tax is deferred until the sale of shares or the tax applicable to that scheme applies to capital gains. And here's the key difference. In short, the tax relief system has exposed a very encouraging environment to this effect, and we all want as many practices as possible after the implementation of this very important law. And I am pleased with the predictions made by some important economic operators that they are just waiting for the entry into force and actual implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr William Rezman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u102	Mr. President, thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy has been designated as the parent working body for the proposed law, the latest version prepared by our Government. It must be said that the majority of the findings were unanimous that there was a great deal of affection for the adoption of the law. That there have been very many entities involved in the process of production and that these entities have also been involved in the procedure that we have carried out in our Parliament. The participants in the process were also Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of various unions, representatives of the Association of Employers and Councils of Workers from Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service. We have also been faced with quite a bit of material, both of which existed before, because this was not the first attempt at this kind of adoption of the law, as well as the new materials that they have re-prepared, in addition to the Government of the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council, which favoured this law, as well as some proposals from the Chamber of Commerce, trade unions and the Association of World Workers, have come to the table. Eight amendments were proposed to the text by the coalition parliamentary groups. Several proposals were also proposed for discussion and adoption in the form of amendments by the Association of Workers' Councils. The debate showed that all the amendments proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups were welcomed. Most of the comments and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account, but the proposals of the Councils of Workers were not adopted. All those who participated in this process supported the law. Everyone also supported the way this law was drawn up and the relatively good cooperation between partners and found this to be an acceptable compromise for all. There were - already in the Minister's presentation we could see this - some concerns as well. In particular, concerns about volunteering, concerns or questions about the adequacy of the provisions that all in this process of earning profits are the same as those of managers, as well as those who are employed as workers. The issue of rights protection was raised in the event of bankruptcy of an individual company. It also raised a question that later settled concerning the net and gross profit on which it was taking part. It was also mentioned that more than a worker employed in dependent companies, a worker employed in holding and several questions were raised in relation to the maximum amounts that may be involved and, in relation to questions or possibly, there will be no reduction in some of the other revenues or revenues that workers have, such as the 13th salary, Christmas and other prizes that they can now participate in. It is right to say that there have been several different opinions from the Chamber of Commerce and Trade unions, but that we have come to a compromise that we have all supported later. The bill was also aware that this law, which would only now come into force and begin to gain first experience, had therefore warned that the Government or the Ministry was in the process of monitoring the situation, carrying out some kind of monitoring and preparing the necessary changes, if indicated. The Committee then adopted all amendments, adopted a proposal for an amended law and proposed it to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present once again! In the LDS, we support the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits, and we estimate that this law will contribute to positive effects for a higher level of productivity and profitability. If the employees are also co-owners of the companies where they work, of course, with so much interest, let us also hope for the satisfaction and effect of the work. At the same time, it is noted that only two schemes have been incorporated into the law by the proposer. And we have already suggested on the committee that we consider whether or not we might include some other, such as the mandatory schemes, as well as, as elsewhere included or possibly optional share programmes, they could be further involved, so that this remains for the government as a reflection on the next change as far as it still has in mind. We also assess that tax relief is not appropriate. We have proposed and still stand for tax reliefs for equity schemes to be higher than tax reliefs for monetary schemes. Indeed, in the case of equity schemes, the funds remain in the company and contribute to the expanded reproduction of the company and thus increase the economic power of the company and the country as a whole. As a result, we also estimate that a better solution would be, insofar as tax reliefs for the equity scheme would be more favourable, higher than tax reliefs for the monetary scheme. In this way, they would also make a significant contribution to the awareness of the importance of labour participation in Slovenia. In order to make a voluntary decision, this has never been problematic and supported by the LDS Club. However, we estimate that it is unnecessary and at the same time too bureaucratic a definition in Articles 21 and 22, which speaks of the registration of a contract at the Ministry of Economy. For, suppose that the parties are all employees in a company, then the Ministry of Economy will have to keep a list of all employees in the register of these contracts. The Ministry will also have to inform the company of any changes made and the Ministry will issue the relevant conclusions. Probably not the best case at this point. But let us be optimistic and assume that in the future the Mura will give all its 4,000 workers and workers a share of the shares. Then this is certainly a fine case for the Ministry, which confirms, represents a huge amount of bureaucratic work. Then, of course, with all the changes, all 4 000 possible possible changes and decisions. At the LDS, we hope that the participation of workers in profits will be realized and we propose that possible additional schemes be reconsidered. And we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u106	Good-bye! Dear President, the Minister with his associates! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we support the solutions brought by the new Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit. Given that the material in question has been present in our country for several years and that most European countries have already implemented this legislation, we are pleased that the government has come with the appropriate solutions to the National Assembly. Why are we happy in our parliamentary group? In New Slovenia, we want those who directly create, produce, deliver services and so on to have something from the profits made, and they are certainly also responsible for the well-being of companies. Given that our salaries are much lower than in many European countries, the situation is even more saddened that only a few share the large profits they make in many companies in Slovenia. We have in mind, above all, the administration and the supervisory councils. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the law will also improve the social situation of workers, stimulate them in some way and strengthen their belongings to society. On the other hand, it will enforce the tax advantages that it is willing to recognise and will have a positive impact on business and, finally, on increasing competitiveness, which is an important factor for regulating prices, quality and productivity today. It is not necessary, to emphasise, at least this is our view that Slovenia is one of the countries that have slightly neglected to reward workers. Otherwise, it is known that both the European Union and the United States are favoured with reward schemes, because they benefit not only workers but also employers and not least the country. No government has made such a similar law in recent years. Therefore, we can only congratulate the proposer. If the law comes to life as soon as possible in practice, the proposed law will also be one of the measures to improve the social security of people in our country. The legal solutions are prepared on the basis of a balance of interests between representatives of employers and employees. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is necessary to adopt appropriate rules that will regulate this area and allow all workers to be able to do business. It seems important to us that the law is based on the principle of volunteering. It shall be binding on both workers and employers when an agreement or contract is concluded. So we can say that the choice of positive effects will be left to companies that can also assess the higher productivity, development and growth of the economic operator in this way. To summarise a proposal for a law that provides for the possibility of choosing between two types of participation schemes, between share and cash, we believe that both employers and employees must be interested enough to accept them and implement them properly and properly. The company will thus be able to pay workers a maximum of 20% of the profits of each business year and not more than 10% of the annual gross amount of wages and not more than EUR 5000 per individual. A key part of the bill is also seen in tax reliefs linked to corporate income tax, income and social security contributions. In the case of a corporate income tax, in the case of payment after one year of relief in the form of a reduction of the tax base, an amount of 70% of the profits that can be paid to workers will be foreseen. In the event of payment after three years, this relief will be 100%. This will mean that, if the income from the cash scheme is paid after one year from the date of the acquisition of the right to an amount of profit, 70% of that profit is not included in the tax base. Social security contributions are paid only at 30%. These contributions do not go to one of the three cash registers, but to the individual account of the employee's pension insurance. The only thing that we have been skeptical about in this proposal is the inclusion in the sharing of profits among employees also members of administrations who have already defined financial privileges. Therefore, we now welcome the decision made by the amendment tabled in Article 6 to prevent the beneficiary from being considered a member of the management, procurator and executive director, as defined by the law governing the economy. For all these reasons, we will support the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we join all those who welcome and support the adoption of the Act. Of course, we cannot go beyond the question raised by all those supporters of this law when they had power and could have implemented such solutions long ago, but obviously this will was not enough. But let's put the prestigious questions aside. Let's focus on the content. While existing legislation already allows for the financial participation of workers in the profits of companies, unfortunately it is not encouraging for the worker or for the employer. We therefore have before us a system law governing the participation of workers in the profits of companies. It creates such a legal framework that will act in an encouraging way, both for companies and for workers, while at the same time acting in an encouraging way to increase economic growth. The law provides for different forms of participation of workers in profits, namely, cash and equity, and follows some of the main principles. We must be aware that this bill is the fruit of intensive coordination between the social partners, which none of them actually deny. As a result, we must also be aware that the essential substantive points of this law are the result of the consensus reached and the coordination between all the social partners. Let me briefly touch only three of the most problematic solutions envisaged by the law. By way of derogation from point (a) of Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 2 of the basic Regulation. We believe that trade unions would want more and better conditions for the participation of workers, but the solutions presented are the result of compromise, the result of coordination between partners. We also believe that there is no reason for this bill not to be supported in the National Assembly under such a consensus. The most important part of the law is one that will actually bring the opportunities offered to life. However, it seems to us that the part that tells us about tax reliefs, the tax on the profits of legal persons, the reliefs to employers in the form of income, and the relief that is intended for both. These are provisions concerning contributions to pension and disability insurance. As we have seen, a possibility that is not taxable or otherwise stimulated has no real basis in real life, nor does it come to life. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, despite some expressed wishes and concerns, we see no reason not to support this law. It's definitely a big step forward. Especially in the period when capital is concentrated in Slovenia in the hands of a limited number of individuals. Finally, in the success story, some of the cakes should also be obtained by those who actually create and have great credit with their hands and heads for the success of companies and the right to share this profit, which they themselves create together with the management and owners of companies. However, greater motivation and satisfaction in the workplace is certainly a guarantee that there will be even greater success in companies, all who are involved in any way, and all of them will be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! In the Group of Members, we really support in principle the efforts to finally address this important area and, of course, we also support the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits. Finally, in the past, we have supported a similar law. However, regardless of the principle of support, we have some substantive comments or dilemmas on the proposed law, which is the subject of today's consideration. First time. The law is based on volunteerism. Companies and employees will be encouraged through favourable tax incentives to decide on the participation of employees in profits. But participation itself is not compulsory, as is the case in some European countries. For example, in France, where this is compulsory for all companies above a certain number of employees. Another time. There is a dilemma about employees in holding companies and employees in subsidiaries. Employees in holding companies will be in a significantly better position than employees in dependent companies creating value added. In our view, this should be properly regulated. Third time. The problem of administrations which are to be entitled twice to participation in profits under Article 72 of the Labour Relations Act and the Company Act, which lay down the right of administrations to take part in profit. Thus, the Administration would participate in the scheme for all employees and would also have a separate scheme followed by the above-mentioned laws. Since an amendment has been tabled in the meantime, which in some way solves this problem, we will support the amendment tabled in our Group of Members. The last and indeed our greatest dilemma relates to the risk or unprotected profits of employees that have been collected for years and will remain empty in the event of bankruptcy. Regardless of what we say, we will support the law in the parliamentary group. Likewise, amendments that improve the law regarding or in the direction of our comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u112	Employees had an important share in making profits. And it's probably the only thing right for them to be allowed and encouraged by the law to participate in the sharing of this. The DeSUS therefore strongly welcomes the proposed law and will also support it. It will also support the amendment proposed, because this amendment solves one problem that would actually be unacceptable. In view of the fact that those who are still on individual contracts and who have certain ratings with them would be privileged and participating twice again. Participated squared maybe. This would, of course, be discriminatory for other employees. It would also be a mistake to make this possible, because there would still be special ratings for non-payment of taxes if we did not pay this earlier than in three years and would thus be exempt from the work of other contributions that should be paid. We will support this proposed amendment. The question is: How to react to another necessary amendment that is not now available and which should correct the professional error referred to in Article 6, where the balance sheet and net profit are equal? But this will probably be arranged in such a way as to eliminate this by some editorial correction. In the DeSUS Group, we also support the means of communication that was present in the drafting of this Act and the willingness to monitor and, if necessary, improve the provisions that might show weaknesses in their implementation. It is interesting - our observation, perhaps someone else will also be able to attract this - that there have been a number of proposals recently that have been very socially colored in circulation in the House of Parliament. Let me mention: income reliefs to mention the protective allowance, to mention the child allowance provided for in student food subsidies, provided for free kindergarten for others and other children, social transfers that are being prepared, participation in profits, because it is also in some sense a social element. And the question is: was this accelerated by the inflation we are witnessing, or perhaps by the year in which the parliamentary elections are held? If I ironise a little bit, we should say that if these two are the real causes of so much greater social sensitivity than otherwise, then we should be constantly maintained to the right extent of inflation, as well as a continuous verification of our credibility among voters. That's when it turns out that the willingness for social transfers and everything else is getting bigger. The possibilities for participation have already been given. However, they were given without encouragement and were therefore not expected to be realized. The European Union has also recommended more or less without any commitments that would force them to do so, even though they have done so in many countries, they already have three reports on how this is done.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u113	Sorry, the microphone's off.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u114	It's working. Someone's hooked him up again. Well, as far as our favored position is concerned, let me reiterate that we support this law because it brings positive results. We hope that this will also be implemented in practice. And we note that there are certain collections, probably in relation to economic development, with the development of a different industrial democracy, with some social sensitivity, and also probably with an entrepreneurial culture, which must reach some threshold before such laws can also provide adequate support. Whether this will also be the case in practice, we will see in the coming months when we will also have the opportunity to verify this entrepreneurial culture because of the principle of volunteering.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear President! Evidence, if something is to be done in harmony with the social partners, is one of the first proofs of this law. However, in the Slovenian National Party, it is estimated that it is at least three years too late for us to accept it today and in some way even to do it cheaply. We oversupply the amount of money created as surplus as a new added value in the space in the company. Because only 20% of the company's single profit is earmarked for division. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that in fact poverty would be lower. As much as 25% of society's share is present and 25% of society lives on social transfers and social assistance and, of course, on the brink of poverty. That's a big percentage. We are confident that if this law were to be passed earlier, perhaps this percentage would be lower. However, we do know that this is the statistical information that I am now citing and that statistics are the exact sum of lies. We can say that this percentage is probably even higher. And we just want this share to be at least a quarter in the division of net profit that would go to the workers, but something better than nothing. We are also disturbed by the fact that the limit is limited to 10% and 5,000 euros in division. This is the sum that an individual can receive. It is true, however, that in some ways the principles of equality, carelessness are introduced. All the workers are involved. And here again there may be a new injustice caused by "all workers". Look at the last case that cries out and calls for someone to say something to him. It's Elan's case. For the so-called good work, Mr. Skine is likely to receive millions in euros. Manager's right. These people are already privileged in this context to take or demand almost anything from the society they run. They even prescribe their own awards. And after not staying for development, because we know that the condition for a successful company is also the right attitude towards development. And 80% of the profits in the developed world are earmarked for development in particular. When these managers pick up everything, we can ask ourselves if there will be anything left to share, if what we say remains, in fact, in the business balance sheet, we label pure profit as a pure, new added value. I am also concerned as a Member that there is only a possible fraud, a beautiful promise that we have written on paper. But later, when the balance sheets are made, when the first three-month reports come in, we'll find out in the first quarter of the year that there's no money to split. And who's gonna hang? Again, those who made the profit. I'm afraid we're not pulling someone's ass again. Dear Minister! On our side of the praise that you have succeeded - but he is not here, he went a little rest - to get so much strength and will that you coordinated it in this way. For I myself have been present on the working body of my mother and I must say that the social partners have praised this way of coordination. It is true that they are not entirely satisfied with all that was required of them. Like I said, it's better than nothing. There is also a double option for monetary or equity schemes. And as we have heard from the predecessors, in fact, it is also positive that tax relief can be extended or increased over the years. On my part, of course, I also hope that the proposals in the amendments will be taken into account and that we are still trying to correct this matter. But what this marriage will look like in life will show time. And I believe that the results will be minimal, but in most cases they will not be. I am already warning the social partners to pay attention to where this profit is going to go. For we know that the creators of various business reports are quite capable and will be able to take that right away from them. So the right to participate in profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President, the honourable one is here! Proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits. The address itself is very welcome, but it is only that any parliamentary group would have hoped to consider whether such a law would support or not. But, address, we'll touch the contents now, maybe even with the amendments. The opposition submits a proposal for a law in 2005, the same with the same title. The coalition rejects it if the content is inappropriate. The opposition repeats the story in 2006. That's when the content is appropriate. But the coalition finds she's more capable, smarter, and says she's preparing a comprehensive marriage. Not in 2007, not in 2006, in 2008. Why 2008? I'm just guessing, we're just guessing in the Unaffiliated Members of the Lip Group, or because of the election? I don't know, I guess. After twice rejecting the bill, the Government prepares its own law, which is the best. It is so good that it is simply not possible to reject it, to oppose it, but in 2008. Why isn't it in 2005? The same brain has been involved in this government coalition since 2005, not in 2008. Let's leave it, let's move on. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have not yet had a system law regulating the participation of workers in profits. The same story is true in the European Union, Slovenia is the first to systematically engage in the arrangements for the participation of workers in profits. I hope that the whole of Europe will follow this law. Although he has quite a number of shortcomings and is welcome only by address. Just by the title, welcome, just by the title, I would like to stress once again. If I move on. The principle of equality introduced by the law, under which all workers are entitled to benefit from the proposed law, I will say that the amendment of the coalition, which we then have in consideration, is better regulated by this story. So the government is not all smart enough to reject the opposition's previous proposals when it comes to the participation of workers in profit. With whom has the government really aligned, truly aligned, to 100% in the drafting of this law? It has complied with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. She didn't get along with the workers. Minister, I believe you still have time. And let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, you weren't at the meeting, I think you'll tell me tomorrow, how the Paloma workers will share the profits. There the director appointed by this Government as the owner of the company lies about his education. But this government set him up. This company is owned by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. What are they gonna share? The Minister of Finance said at the time, I will exclude myself from the client of anyone who will lie. Will it be true? He's not here yet. The press found out earlier that this was a lie. It is a company owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It's a company that has nothing to share. He has nothing to give to the workers because this government caused what happened. There are more companies like this in this country. The law is directed, and basically, if we forget about the amendment, it takes into account the division of profits, including the administration of the company. The company’s false management also takes into account the profit sharing. But that's not right. Who makes a profit to a particular society? Management giving guidance. I agree. But mostly the workers who do this work. People, the people you're paying 400 euros to share their profits. But, as has already been said, in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Republic of Lip, just because of the title, let it be yours, we cannot oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u120	Since 1997, Slovenia has experienced several failed attempts to regulate and approximate the practice of most European countries. The proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits, which we strongly support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, is a system law on financial participation of workers and is also included in economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia, adopted by the current Government at the end of 2005 The preparation of the law itself was also included in the Social Agreement for the period 2007-2009. In our parliamentary group, we do not agree with the criticism of the opposition that the current law has delayed three years in order to be obliged to offer nothing significant new in it, which has not already included the proposals that the opposition has drawn up in recent years. All these bills were mandatory for companies without tax exemptions. However, the last proposal is still mandatory, but already with tax reliefs. Nor were the proposals acceptable to all social partners. The bill before us has such substantive solutions, which have received the support of all the social partners after patient coordination, which have never been found in all previous proposals. And what is particularly important is that in three years this Government and coalition has created such economic and budgetary conditions that the proposed law can be successfully applied to practice. For in the first years, a significant budget deficit is expected, which can be passed on by the state budget due to high economic growth and successful macroeconomic policy. Such conditions were not created by the previous governments. The proposed law proposes appropriate rules that will enable workers to participate in profit and also create a legal framework that will act as an incentive for companies and employees. At the same time, it will also work to increase economic growth. A more efficient entrepreneurial environment will be established, in which workers will be actively involved and involved. There will be an opportunity to create more effective cooperation between employers and employees. The bill is based on the principles of volunteering, equality and care. It offers a cash scheme for capital companies and a public company equity scheme. The company can pay workers a maximum of 20% of the profit of the business year, but not more than 10% of the gross wage per employee per year and not more than 5,000 euros per employee. In addition to the legal arrangements for the participation of employees in profits, both for employees and for companies, the most important tax reliefs are from a motivational point of view. Thus, two schemes are proposed, cash and equity. In the case of a one-year monetary scheme, 70% of the tax relief is for both the company and the employees and 100% after three years. Both are also exempt from social contributions for the same amount. After one year of application of the schemes, workers will be able to decide to pay their share of the profits with the corresponding interest or leave it in the scheme for three years and thus receive 100% relief. In doing so, however, it is an important aim of the law to keep the money in the company, so that the noble and at the same time motivates the employees. An important legal provision should also be laid down which allows employees included in an individual supplementary pension scheme to direct the payment of social security contributions to their individual savings accounts to the pension fund. This will achieve the objective of focusing as many employees as possible on long-term savings for retirement. This may also be the first step towards reforming the pension system. The proposed law, which has the support of all social partners, will certainly have a lot of positive effects both for workers, managers and owners of companies in terms of development, profit growth, increased social security of employees, strengthening company ownership, greater motivation for employees, uniting objectives between employees and owners and more. Finally, the result of such companies will have a long-term impact on economic growth and thus the expected positive revenue effects on the state budget. For all of this, we will also support the draft law and amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group without reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the Complementary Proposal for a Law on the Participation of Workers in the Profit made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that this is not the first attempt in this term. We have already prepared a proposal for a law on the participation of employees in company profits and on the ownership of employees in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats before 1 May 2005. The law was also rejected on the grounds that the Government would prepare its proposal. By the end of 2005, nothing had happened. That is why we have repeated the process and experienced the renouncing of the bill. Member issues followed and our announcement that we will re- table the proposal. Today, almost three years after our proposal, we are considering a government proposal. An already vague view of both texts, our proposal and the government proposal, says that the scope and content of the government proposal is much more modest. The government proposes to share profits on the basis of so-called voluntary incentives. We have proposed that, in view of the situation that is present in us, part of the profits in companies where there are more than 30 employees must be divided among those who have created the profits among workers. Therefore, the decision is not left to the will of the owners, as it is in this case. In doing so, let me state the bill's proposal, which he wrote: "We assume that more than 50% of companies and financial institutions will not be included in the scheme, that we expect a real drop of around €31.1 and €32.4 million." The law, as it is now prepared, could be drafted by the Government at the beginning of the mandate. However, at the beginning of the term of office there is no electoral year. If they had done so, today employees in profit companies could have already participated in its division. Thus, the law, which is included in the framework of economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia, will have positive effects only in the next mandate of both the National Assembly and the Government. At the same time, the next government will face financial consequences of around €32 million. Our warnings from three years ago, when we presented the advantages of adopting the proposed law, were overheard. We are confident that the pressures on wages today would be much lower if our proposals were accepted, as they would give the results that we will now have to wait for. The adoption of the law itself will not help to combat inflation, not in this year and not in the following year. In Social Democracy, we always warn that employees are not a cost, but a company's capital, because they are the only ones making profits. It is therefore necessary to increase the motivation of employees for good work and their belongings to the company. For these reasons, we are still in favour of the solutions that some countries know that the participation of employees in profits is compulsory and not optional, as proposed by the Government. We also believe that we should be more supportive of working stock in the function of better business and savings. As you know, we have also proposed a slightly higher share of the profits to be shared under this law, as well as a slightly more favourable tax relief and a special stimulus in the event that these revenues are invested in pension savings. Despite this, we have decided not to interfere with the agreed content of the law between the social partners, but to take into account the interests of the social partners, so that the law can be adopted and applied as soon as possible. We are confident that in the coming months, in the coming years with a slightly different relationship, including the force - if I use this term - it will be possible to implement more favourable solutions for employees and to remedy the shortcomings that will arise when the law is implemented in practice. It's very distasteful - I stress - but I find it distasteful that someone behind this stage of speech who represents or represents a political option that is 12 years in power is talking about this and wondering what we have done to those who have had this opportunity before. So those who have made almost the entire period of self-sustaining Slovenian politics ask us today, who have only been involved in this for a few years, what we have done in the past. I am responsible for the fact that, three years ago, we forwarded a law to the procedure, which you rejected twice by Members and Members of the government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u123	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 6 and on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 6 and on the amendment to this Article. There's no sign-in. Does the Minister want to raise any questions in the debate? Don't you? Does he? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u124	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, I support and have repeatedly commented that the management authorities have been able to arrange their participation in profit through individual contracts and in appropriate other ways and that this law applies to workers. However, I think that the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups against the same content is actually better, or it summarises the key topic that we have also wanted to achieve with this and, of course, we undermine it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u125	Thank you. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - it's on the proposal for a law on winning tax at classic games of chance. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Shircelj, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposed Winning Tax Act in classical gambling will replace the current profit tax under the Citizens' Tax Act, which is already very old, for more than 20 years. In the light of the arrangements adopted, the new law makes it clearer to tax the profits from classical gambling. More specifically, the tax base is laid down and tax is aligned with the new tax legislation adopted in 2006. In preparing the solutions in the proposed law, account has also been taken of practices that reduce administrative burdens related to the tax rate and affect the cost reduction of both tax administration and taxpayers. The subject of taxation under the bill will be the winnings of classic gambling. The revenue derived from the revenue tax will belong to the budgets of the municipalities according to where the winner has permanent or temporary residence. Only if the winner does not have a permanent or temporary residence will this tax belong to the budget of the municipality where the organizer of gambling is established. The law defines classical gambling as defined in other rules on gambling. Thus are the classic gambling games of numbers lottery, lottery with current known winnings, quiz lottery, raffle, lotto, sports forecasts, sports betting, luck and similar games. With a view to reducing administrative burdens, it is proposed to increase the threshold for determining the untaxed amount of profit from the current EUR 206 to EUR 300. The increase in the tax threshold will reduce the number of taxed profits, based on our estimate of around 1600 gains in the previous year, thereby reducing the administrative level at tax both on the part of the taxpayer who is the organiser of the gambling game and on the part of the tax authority. The tax rate remains unchanged. That's 15% of the tax base. Therefore, each individual profit with a value of more than 300 euros will be taxed. On the basis of data from the 2006 standard gambling tax calculations, according to the proposed legislation, it is estimated that the tax revenues of municipalities under this heading will remain at around €2.9 million, with an estimated decrease due to an increase in the tax threshold of around €56,000 per year. The expected output is estimated at the assumption that all other parameters affecting the amount of tax revenue will remain unchanged. On the other hand, we estimate that gambling will become more attractive to players by increasing the threshold of taxation, and will result in an increase in revenue belonging to the budgets of municipalities. The law will also set out the procedure for the collection and payment of the profit tax, which has so far been defined in the Tax Procedure Act. The tax will be calculated, withdrawn and paid by the organiser of the classic gambling with tax evasion, and this tax will also be the final tax. Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I say hello to everything! At its 37th meeting, on 3.2.2008, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law on winnings in classical gambling submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. As usual, we have obtained an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which had no comments on the proposed text. In its opinion, however, the wording of Article 4 should be aligned with comparable tax legislation, which the Committee took into account when adopting its amendment below. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the competent authorities of the local communities. The call was received by the Municipality of Velenje, which forwarded its comments to the National Assembly on 22.1.2008 to Articles 2 and 4. Article 2 proposes to maintain the applicable tax threshold. That's about 200 euros. In Article 4, however, it suggests that where it is not possible to determine who is the holder or who is the one who is entitled to the amount of tax paid, that this is in this case the municipality where this amount has been paid. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The representative of the Government then briefly presented the fundamental changes to the law, as we have just heard. It is mainly about changing the tax threshold from 200 to around 300 euros. Then there have also been some changes in the fairly old 1998 Citizens' Tax Act, where some changes have to be made. It also takes into account the legal definition of classical gambling, which also includes classic games played online. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service subsequently confirmed that her comments were taken into account in the amendment adopted by the Committee in accordance with Article 4. Later, the Committee voted on all the articles and adopted them. A proposal for a law has been prepared and is also proposed to the National Assembly to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, there are no reservations to the proposed Income Tax Act for classical gambling, which will specify the tax base and increase the threshold of the non-taxable amount of profit. For the last 20 years, gambling has been on a global scale of rapid growth. From the marginal activity of a suspicious reputation, which, at best, the company has been reluctant to tolerate and, at worst, has banned, it has developed into an established entertainment industry for the general public. In the territory of Slovenia it is already feeling oversatisfaction and finally even addiction of individuals with gambling. Therefore, according to the New Slovenia Group, it would be good to reduce the scope of gambling as well as the scope of classical gambling. The bill will raise the threshold for establishing an untaxed amount of the current 205.95 euros to 300 euros, which, in our view, will affect the scope of the game. In the long run, however, revenue in the municipal budget will not be reduced. The increase in the tax threshold will also reduce the number of profits taxed slightly. Therefore, there will be fewer administrations at the tax rate, both for the payer who is the organiser of gambling and for the tax collecting tax authority. The tax rate is one of the most important tools the country can use to influence the direction of development of gambling activities. Thus, all classical gambling will be included in taxation regardless of how they are adapted. So also those who are playing on the Internet, which we did not know when the applicable Law on Taxes of Citizens, which regulated gambling, was adopted. The law will also set out the procedure for the collection and payment of the profit tax, which has so far been defined in the Tax Procedure Act. In addition, it should be noted that the tax on profits for taxpayers will be calculated, withdrawn and paid by the organiser of the classic gambling with a tax deduction that will be considered a definitive tax. In the New Slovenia Group, we also agree that the winning taxes will belong to the municipality where the recipient has a registered residence. If the recipient is a foreigner or a person without a place of residence, then the municipality where the organiser of the gambling is established. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also committed to making profits from classical gambling for health, sport, education, equal opportunities for people with disabilities and social protection for citizens. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill as we believe it will reduce administrative burdens, ensure a more transparent distribution of funds, which are now often a stumbling block among individual beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u132	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, we have witnessed many changes in tax legislation. In fact, at the beginning of this mandate, we have amended almost all tax legislation, so we believe that the rules governing the areas of taxation of winning in classical gambling are outdated and unclear. Even if they're based on legislation from the '80s. The main innovations or changes against previous solutions, as regulated by the legislation so far, are the more precise determination of the tax base and the increase in the threshold of the untaxed amount of profit. All classic gambling is thus included in taxation. Also on the Internet and other telecommunications means. The most debate so far and the dilemma has led to a proposal to increase the threshold of the untaxed amount of profit. The tax on profits in classical gambling is the revenue of municipal budgets. Fearing that such a solution would result in a significant loss of revenue from municipal budgets, we do not believe that such a solution would lead to a relatively small loss of revenue from municipalities. To put it this way, this would mean a weak EUR 57,000 in 2006 at the level of the whole country. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will support this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you again, Mr. President. Well, it's a new law that has an ambition to increase the amount of untaxed happiness if I may say a little plastic. While happiness is perplexing, this law will still be supported by us in the DeSUS Group, because it has more - as we estimate - good sides as well as weaknesses, which it does not overlook. Support for the fact that it will in some way, or even gambling, enable individuals to enjoy and treat frustrations to those who need to live more than happiness from such other things. Secondly, because this law allows the budget to be charged. We know that there is an extremely large sum, hundreds of millions of euros flowing in this business. And for this reason or for the most part, we support this because it is one of the important sources of funding for disability, humanitarian and other activities, for the societies where the patients are united and have these resources. Let's say it's a humanitarian potential. At times, however, these funds are also a reason for controversy, as was the case recently when individual societies fought for a piece of this relatively large cake and were also the reason for each other’s conflicts to write criticisms or pamphlets to be sent through Slovenian pensioners’ societies. But this cannot now fundamentally change our attitude toward the primary purpose. The reasons given by the applicant are rational. It is an update; it is a matter of adapting to systemic other legislation. It is about redefine classical gambling, which are no longer exactly the same or have developed quite a bit, especially with these online gambling. It's a reduction in administration. This is one of the attempts and to reduce costs. A new one will be the threshold we call the threshold for untaxed profits, the tax on good fortunes, by assuming that it would not be revalued. Otherwise, the essence of the law remained the same. Whether it is a subject matter of taxation, whether it is a taxable person or a system of taxation, a system of collection of such taxes. It's not a matter of major change. It is more or less a matter of marginal changes which are nevertheless necessary. We do not have all exactly the same views on these proposed changes. It depends on what angle we're looking at, which perspective. The debate showed that the perspectives differed for the country. They are different for congregations. They are different if we have in mind, above all, a public interest. Different if we have individual partisan interests in mind. The revenue of the State will remain at least the same. The revenue of the congregations will certainly be reduced. Even if there is a greater scale of these games, it will be relatively reduced. So this is a certain revenue outturn in municipalities, which is really not very large, but I don't know why any revenue outage would be necessary at all at the expense of the state institutions reducing some of the costs associated with its administration. This rationalisation at the expense of the municipalities is not something that we would fully support. The next question we are asked is the rate of tax. We are not sure that this 15% threshold or 15% tax rate is best because happiness is taxed less than work and less than new value when compared with income scales and VAT. We do know, however, that the purpose of this law was not to create lotteries of rich people, but that at least for us this humanitarian aspect is more important and those who are fortunate could bear higher taxes. It is also interesting to see this 300-euro limit and the definition that it is taxed only from 300 euros forward. Because if we calculate that the one who has won 300 euros is untaxed and the one with 301 euros is taxed in total, this is an important difference in the tax for just 1 euro in the difference in profit, then it would be more likely to increase the rate of taxation than this cascade. However, we will support this bill, that we have some concerns that were probably worth mentioning.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear President! It is - as has already been said - a new law that has a very strong public interest in the basic preamble. In fact, it would be good if this money that will be raised - I hope that, to a greater extent than so far - we are committed to real social transfers. This is called education, sports, disabled people, organizations that deal with the work of the visually impaired and blind. From this point of view, the Slovenian National Party welcomes this law. It is also true that it can be predicted or counted on to provide a slightly greater control over gambling. Because control is introduced by a new law also for games going on the Internet. Compulsory registration and organisation of these games in the sense that they are tax-payable are obligations. That's what we call this law. Maybe one flaw that we see. The proposed law reduces the revenue of municipalities and their own tax resources without replacing them with a new income for self-financing municipalities. This is actually a warning given by quite a few congregations. And it may be worth considering how to remedy this mistake and how to find some way to replace it for these congregations, who will no longer see the source of funding under the new law. For it can happen that we are also endangering in this way in a kind of well-meaning way, but in a poor sense harmonious and regional development in the congregations. And it should be right to hear this warning, which is well-intentioned. As has already been said, we will support this law in the Slovenian National Party. However, we would like to see that the money allocated to the organisations previously listed is also allocated on the basis of the programmes produced, so that what is already present in the public domain is not to be spent on semi-private matters after these organisations, which are of an exclusively humanitarian nature. In short, we support this amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Your Honors are here! The Winning Tax Act in classical gambling raises the threshold of taxation. So if we look at the story very lazily, it leads people to participate even more in these games of happiness. Whether this makes sense in this situation in our country or not, it is a question that I think the government representatives could have answered in the opening argument. Currently, each individual win was taxed at EUR 206 when it comes to classical gambling. The tax rate was 15%. The goals pursued by the law - but now I am really reading the government's explanation. The first objective is to define the tax base more precisely. I don't know how it could be. Increase the threshold of the untaxed amount of profits. I get that. Let's just raise the threshold and say that all the profits above 300 euros are taxed. But with that, I think we're encouraging people to participate in these games. As a result of the increase in the tax threshold, the number of profits taxed will be reduced, less administration at the tax rate. This administration, however, is very much in the eyes of the unaffiliated Members of the Parliament. Which administration is going to go down? Classic gambling includes lottery, quiz, raffle, loto, sports forecasts, bets. If you've ever tried luck in your life, you played a sports prediction, a sports bet when you put your ticket in. Wherever you did it, where this is enabled, you got immediately written out how much tax and what your real gain is. If these things could have been done by petrol pumps, individual "caffeines" in Slovenia, but anyone who had received a green light from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance to do so has already foreseen this tax base from the computer. I don't know where we're going to cut the administration down here. At the waiters, at the "polomasters," by the way. So far, they have been able to say the tax base very quickly. I have a problem with one story, only the municipality of Velenje, and I must stress this, was the municipality in the Republic of Slovenia, which responded to the story of the law and said that the proposed maintenance of the applicable tax threshold or the replacement of reduced income in the event of its increase with another source. Thus, the congregation of Velenje found it to be a loss. We know from larger municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia that we have allowed larger and smaller municipalities to be formed in this country. We know that gambling revenue belongs to the municipal budget. We also know that large municipalities have had more income from this address because they have a larger population. Smaller congregations were deprived of this income. And now they will be even less deprived because we have raised the tax price from 206 to 300 euros. Winning 300 euros in classical gambling is very difficult to achieve. I don't know how many of you know the story of sports betting or sports forecasts, say. There, 300 Euros of profit in real payment is very difficult to achieve. Now almost every profit will be taxed and we encourage people to play for happiness. But no matter what happens, no matter what I say, I have to say that the proposal for a winning tax law for classical gambling simply foresees that individual municipal budgets are still being filled and we all want the municipalities to survive. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We can't argue with him. But raising censorship still means, I'll say, trouble for smaller congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u139	Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Unfortunately, there are fewer of us. The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the proposal for a winning tax on classical gambling. The current taxation of profits in classical gambling is based on the 1988 Civil Tax Act, which has not changed significantly since then. The rules governing the taxation of profits in classical gambling are outdated and unclear. The proposed new law on the benefit tax for classical gambling will replace the current profit tax under the citizens' tax law. The specific objectives are two. Firstly, to determine the tax base more precisely. And secondly, increase the threshold of the untaxed amount of profit. The law does not make substantial substantive changes with regard to the subject matter of taxation and the taxable person. The law refers to the definition of classical gambling as defined in the rules on the development of gambling, in which classical gambling are numerical lottery games, lottery with currently known winnings, quiz lottery, raffle, lotta, sports forecasts, sports betting, luck and other similar games. The revenue from the profit tax is the same as before to the municipality where the recipient has a registered residence. Each individual amount shall remain the subject of the decision. With a view to reducing the administrative burden on operators of classical gambling, it is proposed to raise the threshold for determining the amount not allocated, from the current 195.07 euros to 300 euros. The increase in the tax threshold will reduce the number of profits taxed, reducing the scope of administration at tax rates both on the part of the tax payer, which is the organiser of gambling, and on the part of the tax authority. The tax rate remains at 15% of the tax base. The law will also set out the procedure for the collection and payment of the profit tax, which has so far been defined in the Tax Procedure Act. The profit tax will continue to be calculated, withdrawn and paid by the organizer of the classic gambling with a tax deduction that will be considered a definitive tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u141	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the law. The proposed law was mainly supported by the fact that it is actually about updating the legislation that is urgently needed, since, however, in particular, classical gambling shows a high increase and are not such a small source of income for municipalities whose citizens are lucky to win big lottery wins, children, etc. Of course, there are disputes then, but not so much because of this law, as it has been heard today, between foundations and between societies that are beneficiaries of the funds of the two foundations financed by the Slovenian Lottery Act, but mainly envy among individual municipalities. This is because that municipality, which receives €750,000 in lottery winnings from a citizen, is receiving quite a good income. Therefore, an increase in the tax base or an increase in the minimum amount taxable under this law is a logical consequence of the fact that once 200 euros was very large and today much less. Especially when we're paying lottery amounts. Finally, it should also be noted that the way in which a taxable person is a profit-winning citizen is a lottery payer. It is said to be the organizer of a classic game of luck or some society that organizes a game of luck. However, it is certainly a great savings in administration. Because even for the recipient citizen himself, because he does not have to fly from Pontius to Pilate and look for a way or someone to pay that tax. That's what the gambling organizer does instead. I think that this law is a rare one, which in fact clearly simplifies procedures, which, after all, with not very large discounts, is also friendly to citizens. I think it would be wise to accept it without any major corrections. I must say, it is an important income for the congregations. However, if we believe, and I think that believing the applicant, reducing the income from the tax on classical gambling is then divided into 210 municipalities by a likely account is a very small amount. And for that reason, I don't think there's any point in resisting an increase in the lowest amount that's non-taxable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u144	Good-bye, everybody! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the bill replacing the current profit tax under the citizens' tax law. We also support the modernisation of the regime in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia by aligning it with the rest of the newer system legislation. The proposed specific objectives are, in the view of the LDS, relevant because they specify the tax base more precisely and increase the threshold of the untaxed profit. As a result of the increase in the tax threshold, this will reduce the number of profits taxed and thus the extent of administration in the assessment of the tax, with a relatively small reduction in the tax revenues of municipalities. However, it is a fact that the law does not make substantial substantive changes as regards the subject matter of taxation and the taxable person. So we stay on the same footing. The revenue from the profit tax, as before, belongs to the municipalities where the recipient has a registered residence. If this recipient does not have a residence in Slovenia, the tax of the municipality where the organizer is established. So the subject matter of taxation remains each individual profit. There's no news. By increasing the threshold for an untaxed amount from the previous 200 to 300 euros. This, as it is said, will reduce the number of administrations and also the number of taxed profits, but not with a particular impact on the tax revenues of municipalities. All of the above findings and indications in the law are the basis for our decision to support the proposal of the law on winnings in classical gambling at the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the amended bill today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AGRICULTURAL BOARD LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Saš Pečet. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Marjetka Uhan for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! At its meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Group of Members to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure by the first-signed Saš Pječet. Representatives of Lawmakers, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. As a material, we have also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Forestry and Food. No amendments or proposals for amendments to the Committee have been tabled. As we have said, we have received a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which further explained certain facts on the Committee. The legislative and legal service considers that the proposed solution from a legal and systemic point of view constitutes a departure from the public law model of the Chambers. The obligation of membership as an important constitutional element of this model is, as a rule, linked to the obligation to pay a member's contribution. In particular, where the financial resources for the work of the Chamber are not provided from other financial resources. In particular, it was pointed out that the solution related to the introduction of the concept of voluntary payments of a constituency contribution under the proposed legislative text was not consistently implemented, since this relates only to part of the provisions of the current law and does not open to others. A written opinion was also sent to the Committee by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposes the proposal for a law. The State Secretary explained that the bill contained many conflicting claims, which also led the Government to believe that the proposal for a law-and-system law was flawed. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which also does not support the proposal for a law. In an additional explanation, the representative reiterated and stressed that the purpose of the current system of organisation in the form of compulsory membership was to survive. It would, however, contribute to the free decision of any individual to become a member of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia following the example of the Chambers of Commerce. In their view, the current system of applicants corresponds primarily to the Chamber itself, as it follows only the interests of the administrative and administrative institution. It provides professional services to membership by its own criteria selectively. A representative of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia also participated in the debate, which clearly does not support the law. The members of the committee who participated in the debate expressed the belief that the abolition of the mandatory membership in the Chamber would cause the most harm to those who need it most and are most dependent on its functioning. Without the assembly system, which provides assistance, including in drawing on European funds, the situation in agriculture and rural areas would be even worse. The opinion was also expressed that the question of membership in the Chamber was not even crucial for the existence of this institution, as the share of the funds collected from the meeting contribution was relatively negligible compared to the funds received by the Chamber for its operation from the State budget. Taking into account the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and in the light of the Committee's deliberations, the Committee adopted a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia was not appropriate for further consideration and that it proposed that this proposed decision should also be adopted by the Council. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u147	Thank you. There are no law-makers. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to present my position. Mrs Branka Tome, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined and found that the proposal cannot be supported by the law due to the following inconsistencies and legal shortcomings. First time. The proposed amendment to Article 1 of the law provides for a comprehensive amendment of the assembly system. By introducing voluntary payments to the Chamber of Commerce, the proposal changes the status of the Slovenian Chamber of Agriculture and Economy from public law to a private legal chamber. Such a status change would require a comprehensive amendment to the law. Nor is it clear whether the mandatory members of the Chamber have an active and passive electoral right, but are voluntarily paying for a constituency contribution. Another time. The proposal for a law adds a new article which provides that, on the basis of the voluntary decision of the members of the Chamber, the criteria for the contribution shall be established. The proposed article provides for the creation of criteria already laid down in the applicable Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. Those provisions, which are already laid down, lay down the criteria for the contributions of the European Parliament, the Council and the Council, and thus the amount of the membership fee. The existence of these criteria at the time of the introduction of voluntary membership payments makes no sense. Third time. Article 3 of the draft law lays down the criteria for the participation of A in the light of an article which has already been recast by amending the law in 2004 and which, on the basis of the payment of the compendium, the new proposal still refers to an old, invalid law on income. In view of the fact that only an article determining the contribution of A is being amended, but not the articles setting out the contribution of B and C, we consider that this is an inconclusive solution. Finally, the draft law in Article 4 amends Article 43 of the Law of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia. This Article is a transitional provision of the Basic Law on the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of 1999 and laid down the provisional rates of the assembly contribution which were in force until the adoption of the rates at the competent authority of the Chamber. The applicant also did not provide for any transitional period for the harmonisation of the acts of the Chamber. The proposal highlights the public benefit of the Chamber, but on the other hand wants to transform the Chamber into an interest association of those who will pay the membership fee. We also believe that the explanation and the annexes of the bill contain many conflicting claims, which make us believe that the proposal for a law is legally and systematically flawed. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u149	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Dear representative and representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief. We will not support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because it appears that the applicants do not support it, as they did not come to introduce it to us at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will not really support the proposal put forward for a simple reason because we estimate that it has not been tabled for serious, correct purposes. This was clear from our point of view already at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. In view of the fact that, at the end of last year, we tabled ourselves an amendment to this Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, believing that certain amendments should also be introduced in this area. Last but not least, it was written in a coalition contract. It was promised by Mrs Lukačič's Minister of Agriculture, several times. In exchange, Mr Jarc promised that the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber was ready and that we were just waiting for him to see the light of the world. And since last year's time has run out, we have made a change that would in one part save a truly forced membership of tens of thousands of mandatory members who, with agriculture itself, have virtually no connection to the agricultural activity. Last but not least, they have already organised themselves in a civil initiative and have collected a lot of signatures against it. We are truly aware of the importance of agriculture in the Group. Very. We know that this is not just about economic activity, but it is about much more. It's about maintaining the countryside, it's about social affairs, it's about preserving the cultural landscape. However, we are also aware that the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber has been a very important player in this area since its establishment to date and that such a rapid intervention in its operation would have resulted in more damage than a positive contribution. Therefore, we were surprised by the proposal made by the proposer. According to the signatories, it is unrealistic to think that they are political suckers. And we would expect a government that has not assessed our proposal, which has only raised the mandatory membership threshold from 85 euros to 355. And those who knew the amount of contributions already made public, somehow agreed between the chamber, between the ministry, among the unions, about EUR 167, then come with such a proposal. We are concerned or appraised that this submission was more of an agreement or an action that prevented the procedure to be carried out by the Government in order to be able to carry out the elections to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber already under the new law. By the law proposed by the government. Somehow this was also the answer to the Committee on Agriculture that all the necessary activities are already under way for the elections to the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber under the old law. So we can assess that it was only a time-consuming manoeuvre, and certainly not a serious desire to help a Slovenian farmer, to help those who are somewhat unwilling in this membership, to help those who do not have a square metre of land to process, but have somehow acquired it through inheritance or otherwise and do not engage in agriculture as such. It will therefore be interesting to observe how the Government's activities and promises will take place, to present its law, to vote it in due time and to follow the new law. As it is said, we will not really support this bill in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! With regard to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, we have taken a negative position in the DeSUS Group on the proposed solutions. We therefore support the decision of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. What has been said by our parliamentary group regarding the regulation of the area of membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Economics at one of the recent meetings of the National Assembly in the context of the opinion on the appropriateness of compulsory or voluntary integration in the Chamber's representation, I can repeat today. In the DeSUS Group we support the current system of membership and representativeness of the Chamber. However, we agree with the raising of the threshold, which is the basis and condition for the obligation of inclusion, to such a level that it will continue to allow for the inclusion of the importance of representing the agricultural economies and their fundamental common interests and the independence of the role and expertise of the work of the Chamber. We are convinced that, at a time when our agriculture, economic and fishing activities have not yet fully matured and have not yet been able to compete in a level playing field with the other European countries only through compulsory integration into the assembly, it is possible to ensure that these objectives are pursued and to help the Slovenian countryside with its characteristic industries and their operators in the pursuit of their interests, which are, after all, our common public interest. Of course, public interest cannot and should not be pursued through a narrow interest association, as it would be the members of the Chamber who are today and who will also depend heavily on its professional assistance in the form of advisory and development services in the future. A comprehensive change in the constituency system means a change in the status of the Public-Legal Chamber to a narrowly interesting and private-legal institution, which will certainly not follow all the common objectives of the competitive development of agricultural policy and the equitable development of rural areas. Also because the proposal does not deal with all the issues that the voluntary system would raise, we in the DeSUS Group have assessed that the bill is legally incorrect and that further consideration of the law does not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! I will also try to be like my friend a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party, short, clear and fickle. How many of the 100 and 100 laws the government has not presented to us, I'm telling the proposer, but don't we cry about it? The purpose of the law is to introduce a voluntary assembly contribution. Compulsory membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture should be reclassified on a voluntary basis. It is intended to redefine the collection system for the participation and revenue of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. That's the point. The reasons for amending the legislation have been given to you. In the Slovenian National Party, despite the fact that it is now an electoral year, and regardless of what was going on in between, we were in favour of voluntary membership in the Chambers. I think it's been put in three terms for back around 7 or 6 novels. I think so. Well, I won't think of it. In this term, two. In the previous 2 novels and in the previous one, from 1996 to 2000, one or two for change. That's the proposal. Why force someone into something if they don't want to? I think it's fair, honest to people to tell. That's what we're offering. It is okay if you oppose the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. At the same time, we need to know that there are quite a few people who have expressed their desire. So it's not like it's a populism of some party who's been or is or will be or whatever. Here we are talking about a few tens of thousands of natural persons who do not perform certain activities and pay for compulsory membership. Let's be so honest with each other. The members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber are mainly owners of smaller agricultural or forestry land. They are not engaged in agricultural or forestry activities as a source of income. Liabilities for the payment of the Sectional Contribution A referred to in Article 23 of the Law, etc. We have given these people a proposal and an opportunity to decide. Now be populism to people. You can say it's us. We can say you're populism. I don't care. But the fact is, whoever wants to be in a chamber should express it voluntarily, not necessarily. Whoever actually carries out these activities should have the benefits and obligations and obligations of doing so. This is a simple reason for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. No matter what political options, I think it's fair. Your decision will be what it will be. Ours was given through the bill. Say that, I'm saying it's a shame. I mean, it doesn't make sense that if the proposer doesn't present the law, that now is the reason why we don't accept it or any other way. Of course, it's top-class nonsense. Because hundreds of laws submitted by the Government never presented them to us and we had to make our own decisions and "flood between force and the Caribbean". No one's forcing you. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support and propose the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, and also propose to all others who have contacts with the people involved in this activity, in view of the fact that they are stated that you are making decisions in accordance with your conscience. Mine policy, people stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In view of all previous implementations, I will start with questions. First question: Is not the free economic initiative enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Is not freedom of choice enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Is not freedom of decision enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? And question number four: Is it not time to tell the Slovenian farmer the truth about what is happening in the EU? Where is Slovenia as a farm country? Do you think it's too fast or too politically inappropriate at this point? Is it not possible to prepare the Slovenian farmer for the fact that there are no huge, life-threatening prospects in the country of Slovenia for agriculture? Some of us had the opportunity to hear the EU Commissioner say: "Slovenia is, well, a slightly larger field." Is it not time to face the truth? I know fear is a beautiful thing, which is nothing from the outside, but before the elections, it's still important. Let's let people know what's ahead. And if we tell the truth and if the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber teaches them to accept this truth, it teaches them to work in the EU system, then membership, if you want, is mandatory. But the law before us follows what the government doesn't hope for. Follows what the Minister for Agriculture does not hope to come to this booth and tell Slovenian public and Slovenian farmers. The law follows the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to voluntary membership in certain chambers. It happened exactly the same at the Chamber of Commerce. This was the guidance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And the marriage that's ahead of us is just following her. It chooses or concerns that the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber would not be able to function if the mandatory membership was abolished is over. On the Committee on Agriculture, we listened to how well the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is doing, how great it is, how it helps a small farmer to obtain subsidies from a small farmer, how it helps to obtain European funds for a small farmer. And if he's doing it in truth, then it's just too much of a worry to fail. Someone who is doing well would be happy to have a farmer from wherever he comes from, regardless of the territoriality of our country, to pay 10 euros in membership fees or, at the moment, to the extent that this is required by the law, if he receives 300, 500 000 euros in subsidies. The question then arises whether this chamber actually works in the interest of those farmers who are not capable - the representative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber said that they were not trained to benefit from anywhere, either from the country or from Europe. And they're being assisted by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Is that true? Let's ask the users of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber if that's true. I asked them, and they said no, that's not true. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is convinced that most members work for their own interests, for the sake of their own well-being, that they have wages, that they can live while giving them some guidance on which they cannot be found. Is that the interest of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber? Is this a free initiative? And the fundamental question that I will end up repeating: Will we continue to lie to the Slovenian farmer about his perspective and his future? I think it's time for the truth. If this government is ahead of the elections, of course, they won't be able to say. That is why we will gladly support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Franz Sušnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u160	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, which was tabled in the procedure by a group of members of the National Assembly, is inaccurate, legally flawed, in short, poor. In the marriage proposal there is a whole series of shortcomings and inaccuracies. The explanation of the law and the annex is full of conflicting claims, which is the shortest possible summary of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We join this opinion and we can only see that the proposal for a law-and-system law is completely inadequate. The proposer obviously had no serious intentions and the legislative proposal does not reflect a sincere desire to change the current arrangements and organisation of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. For all of this, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, its competences, the financing of the tasks of the Chamber's contribution and the budget, in fact, suggest that today we should discuss the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Agricultural and Agriculture Offices. This is a reflection of the content of the work of the Chamber, because the revenue structure is about 70% budget ratio, market revenue 20% and a 10% chamber contribution. Of course, 70% of the funds from the budget are precisely due to the functioning of agri-agricultural institutions. If we are talking about the purpose and existence of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, the mandatory or optional membership, then we should certainly have a very clear answer today by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, why farmers do not yet have the subsidies they own, and why these subsidies are paid with a one-year, two-year or even multi-year delay. Many times we find the answer in this fact that, in fact, the advisory service, which, of course, performs its tasks in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber in a way that is possible and that this method does not always produce effective results or timely measures to pay subsidies. But here, actually, the chamber doesn't feel like it's pointing to this problem. Therefore, it is appropriate to discuss whether to have a Chamber with compulsory membership or optional membership. For today, if we are talking about the fact that the assembly contribution represents only 10% of the revenue, we will find, through the use of this contribution, that it is the meetings of the bodies of the Agricultural and Economic Chambers and the costs of work around 90% of all contributions and that the rest somehow falls into office material and running business. Therefore, the collective contribution paid by political persons, religious communities, legal persons and cooperatives must also provide adequate service or support to all those who expect agriculture to operate in a competitive manner. And that we are actually meeting those standards that we want within the European Union. So it is an extremely important question whether compulsory or optional membership is precisely under this heading as to how all those paying for this contribution can affect the functioning of the Chamber. Unfortunately, we note that current organisation does not provide any possibility for legal persons engaged in agricultural activities to participate in the bodies of the Chamber. Actually, there's no choice. This is how we always face the fact that the Chamber actually fulfils some of the tasks of the current, ruling options and does not represent the interests of the members. And I think that the interests of the members at this very moment are significantly more represented and enforced by the farmers' union than the chamber itself. For this reason, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that it is necessary to examine very carefully the organisation of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy. We believe that even at the time when this precise analysis is done, the deadline for compulsory membership should be set, for example, for three years. And then we move on to voluntary membership. In this way, we think that the seriousness of the cooperation of the Chamber, the seriousness in the sense that it deals with the problems that members have, would significantly increase and would actually become a very serious partner to the Government or the Ministry of Agriculture in the implementation of agricultural policy. Of course, this law that we have before us today does not solve all of this. Unfortunately, this will not be resolved by the government’s law. Otherwise, we will not oppose the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Geza Juban has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye! Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the bill tabled by our fellow Members in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy with a view to abolishing mandatory membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. Perhaps I should warn and point out that this is a Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture and not a Chamber of Commerce. This was mentioned by means of an appeal. I could give you, on behalf of the House of Representatives, a number of legitimate and correct reasons that you all mentioned here. Which is why, on the one hand, you support the proposal of your mother's working body not to support the law they have put into the procedure of your fellow Member and the reasons why the chamber, such as the mandatory membership, should still remain. I'm just gonna take these things for a little while. Above all, warn us of the moment ahead of us how to proceed. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is a system that has shown certain shortcomings in all these years. There are also shortcomings from the point of view of compulsory membership and shows a change. Amend, on the one hand, in terms of the content and competences and obligations of the Chamber of its financing and in particular the threshold for compulsory membership. And that's quite a few pieces of legislation trying to solve, which we don't have solved right now. The time for voluntary membership is not yet ripe. Most current members wish to be voluntary or no members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. However, if we were to abolish this membership, a mandatory membership, we would harm the members themselves, because the rash would be too large and then there could be changes in the chamber that would harm the current population of farmers. In the process of amending this law from a threshold point of view, we have already cooperated in the Joint Chamber of Liberal Democracy in a way that we have prepared a law which was later tabled by colleagues with colleagues of the House in charge. With the signatory, the first signatory. The bill was not adopted. We have a different law before us, colleague Pečet, which abolishes mandatory membership, followed by a government proposal. One of the legitimate reasons is that we do not support this law, that there is a government proposal in the procedure, which sets a threshold for mandatory membership somewhere on a reasonable basis, which is intended to resolve many of the comments that are in the public domain, particularly among the previously mandatory and unnecessary members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. And here's the point that I said in the introduction that I'm going to point out the moment that's ahead of us. In three and a half years, we will have three laws on the table: Possessions, Seals, and Government. The election to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber will be under the fourth law. Under the current law, since we will miss the deadline for government law and will be elected to the Chamber, although we will have a reduced number of members, by all the members of the Chamber so far, which is unacceptable. If anyone has a trump card in his pocket how to solve the situation, how to speed up the procedure of the law in question, this time I speak in my personal name, I would welcome this proposal not to "paint" people, not to make fun of them and not to deceive them. To have a late marriage, which was written a year or two ago, the members will be all. All those who won't be members tomorrow will vote. It may be difficult for a lot of people, no offense to their colleagues, to understand, but this is the situation. And it's the job of all of us to spare people by not telling them a joke. Because I'm afraid there's something in the back. And to resolve the situation in one corrective way, in fact, those who will be members after the amendment of the law or after the amendment of the law in a reduced number will remain, and that the matter will continue to run normally and that we will not have four years of new dissatisfaction ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjetka Uhan also has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you very much again for your word. We have before us the amendment to the Law on the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Sasha Pecett. The substance of the proposed amendment of the law is in voluntary membership or voluntary contribution. This is precisely what they believe is intended to ensure a more efficient and quality work of the Chamber at the forefront of equality, greater accessibility of assembly services and burden a member of the financial burden. The last one would be true, but all the rest, unfortunately, we wouldn't guarantee with this novelty. The shortcomings of the novel and the inconsistencies from a legal point of view in this proposal have been pointed out by the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service, and the applicants have not responded to them with a single amendment. We will not support the proposed novel in New Slovenia. Everything that could be achieved by consensus in the coalition, as well as in the Chamber, the Union and other NGOs in this mandate, is contained in a government proposal which will be held shortly. This marriage would have been in session today if the government hadn't been squirming. Today's proponents took advantage of this and, in fact, delayed or also caused ambiguities about the elections to the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber which are ahead of us. In Novi Slovenije, we are therefore also among the candidates or co-signers for an extraordinary session in order to run the elections on a new government proposal and only after a new government proposal. In New Slovenia, we will support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments to the law on civil rights in the state assembly after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jožef Školč. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Drag Koren, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u168	Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the Prime Minister and the representative of the Ministry! At its 41st session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Josef Školč. The representatives of the proposer first provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill. They said that the law was not legally consistent enough to conflict with other regulations and that it did not contain sufficiently clear and detailed rules to enable the exercise of electoral rights in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The reasons for the amendment are two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The first, by which the Constitutional Court found that the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Elections in the National Assembly do not regulate the manner of voting by post. And the second decision of the Constitutional Court, by which it found that a legal regime which does not stipulate that members of the electoral committees cannot be persons who are related to candidates in elections in violation of the principle of equality of electoral rights. The amendment of the current law also dictates ambiguity in the election of the President of the Republic 21. Ten. 2007 The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the written opinion of this service that the draft law on postal voting was amending the rules on the timeliness of ballots in determining the outcome of the vote, whether it was a vote in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or a vote by post abroad. The bill shortens the time limit for vote in the Republic of Slovenia by 17 hours, while it reduces the time limit for voting abroad by almost eight days. On the other hand, the deadlines for some electoral matters are extended by five days. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, according to the Constitutional Court's decision to assess the constitutionality of such a solution, the key answer to the question is whether the proposed legal regime concerning the time limits for individual electoral tasks and the deletion of voting opportunities in the official blank ballots is entirely such as to allow for as many electoral beneficiaries as possible on the day of the vote abroad to exercise electoral rights. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that the proposed solutions should be re-examined on the basis of a thorough analysis of the legal deadlines in force, as the Constitutional Court also points out. Then the Government also gave its opinion on the draft law. The meeting was attended by a representative, the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Public Administration. He said that the Government did not support the bill and that it would itself propose a new law on elections to the National Assembly in the coming weeks. With regard to the incompatibilities of the membership of a person who is related to the candidate in the elections, in the electoral committee, the Government considers that the conduct of the elections in the manner proposed in the law would be significantly hampered. However, the proposed regime for voting from abroad would, in the view of the Government, be a step backwards, since, despite the proposed postponement of the electoral process for five days, there would be a real danger that an important or significant number of electoral beneficiaries who are abroad on the day of the vote, because they are staying there temporarily or permanently, would not be able to exercise the right to vote. In the debate, the members of the Committee raised the issue of the appropriateness of electoral directories in relation to voting abroad. An amendment to Article 1 of the LDS, SD, Res, SNS and unrelated Members has been tabled to the bill, but has not been adopted. In the light of the Committee's discussion, the Committee decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration and the Committee proposed that the State Assembly should also adopt such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill to present the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Joseph Scholch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The decision of the majority in the homework body is a kind of decision that cannot be surprised by the knowledge of Parliamentarians in this mandate. On the one hand, we all know that this law is practically necessary in all the articles to which we have targeted, and on the other hand, most in this assembly think that only the government or those who have received, as they say, a majority mandate to regulate everything and so the elections to the National Assembly and later to speak in a similar manner about the elections of the President of the Republic. So here we are in a paradoxical situation, that today we will reject a bill that will almost have to be presented in the same text, if we subtract the arrangements for the elections of those people who have permanent or temporary residence abroad later also by the Government. That is why I would like to remind you and those who follow this, that this is a type of ignorance that does not allow themselves to prove that the electoral system or, above all, the electoral system needs to be changed so that these changes are timely, that they are acceptable to the wider range of those who are interested, and that they are ultimately understandable to everyone. Two amendments are urgently necessary in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. These two changes were also rejected by the government. I don't think it's possible to change them differently than we suggested. In the parliamentary process, we have the same solutions for regional elections. So we can say that what the government thinks is good when it suggests itself is not good when it proposes the opposition. I do not know how a wider consensus can then be reached. As for the changes in elections by mail from abroad, it certainly goes, as has been said here, for some kind of step back. But this step backwards needs to be done for a simple reason, because the solutions adopted by the National Assembly mean a step into empty or into some great uncertainty. For it requires that electoral material be sent to all beneficiaries abroad, whether they want it or not, whether it turns out that these lists are terribly lacking, it brings great danger of abuse. This is talked about practically by all those who monitor it. From this point of view, it is certainly necessary to take this so-called step back to a more transparent decision. Finally, this same solution was promoted - I don't know if that's why he got sick quickly - by Minister Virant and was subsequently properly corrected. And today he can't sit here with us, and he can't be embarrassed to defend a position that he wouldn't otherwise believe. This step is needed in particular because of the transparency of the elections, in particular because there is no possibility of a double vote, particularly in order to facilitate the counting of votes, to facilitate the work of the electoral commissions and to determine in due time the outcome of the elections. Each smallest crack in the electoral system allows for disputes. And the worst part is when the election results are decided by the courts. We've had this before. And the changes we have proposed would have prevented this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Mag. Roman Rep, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As has already been said here, the Government does not support the changes to the law prepared by the group of Members with the first-signed Mr Školč. In the beginning I can say, Mr Školč, your thesis that what the Government is preparing is good, what the other side is preparing is not good, and this government does not support, absolutely does not. Taking a closer look at the substantial changes proposed by the Group of Members, the incompatibilities of the membership of a person who is related to the candidate in the election committee. We certainly believe that the implementation of a constitutional decision in the proposed form is incomplete and unacceptable. In practice, this solution could mean that each of the thousands of members of the electoral committees should be checked in advance and its possible related relationship with the candidate in the elections determined. In fact, such elections would be very difficult or could not be carried out. With a view to respecting, of course, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Government proposes that such incompatibilities in the law be prescribed, but that it would be practically effective for members or members of the electoral committee to be obliged, within a certain period of time after the public publication of the candidate lists, to notify the District Electoral Commission of their relative relationship with the candidate. This would, of course, enable the electoral commission to act appropriately and react to such a situation. The Group of Members in the novel also proposes, inter alia, that certain electoral tasks should start five days earlier than in the applicable law. Our view is that, despite the postponement of the electoral process for five days, there is a real danger that a significant or significant number of electoral beneficiaries who are abroad on the day of the vote, either because of their permanent or temporary residence, will be denied or hampered by the right to vote. The government also disagrees with the solution to abolish the official blank voice. It is this official blank voice that facilitates the exercise of constitutional rights or electoral rights. And certainly, Mr Member, that's a step back. If we followed this solution of yours, we would have taken a major step back. With regard to the solution by which votes are taken into account only if they are confirmed by diplomatic-consular representations or by an authority in a country where the electorate is permanently or temporarily in charge of the election of signatures, we believe that this is too rigid and also comparatively legal in view of too much. So far, the means of confirmation by post voting have proved insufficient, particularly in those countries where we do not have diplomatic and consular representations, or where citizens or voters are linked to certification in the relevant authorities of this country, which is also linked to the corresponding financial costs. On the basis of all this, the absolute Government will not support this proposal. As to your concern that the minister is ill because of your marriage, I can comfort you that this has nothing to do with the marriage. The Ministry of Public Administration, however, will prepare a new law, where we will absolutely respect the Constitutional Court's decision and make appropriate proposals for a better law than was proposed on your part today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! I miss Minister Virant, too. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the conclusion of the parent working body is that the draft law on elections to the National Assembly, submitted by a group of Members, of course, of the opposition, is not suitable for further consideration. In the Group of Members, we really do not believe that this decision of the parent working body is appropriate for further consideration, but that the law itself is appropriate and would deserve a transition from the first to the second reading and reception. First of all, I would also like to mention that the point is that elections, as you know, are an important thing. That elections are important and that it is important that the elections and the results are free of any doubt or even illegality, or that the electoral system, as it is, is not the subject of a broader consensus. And this innovation, carried out by the State Election Commission in the elections for the President of the State and apparently beyond in all other elections, is such that it will lead to the very act of elections, which has not been generally contested so far, to always become the subject of debates, conflicts, conflicts and so on. This is why it should be avoided. It is also necessary to avoid, irrespective of where individuals, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are, as far as elections are concerned, that they have roughly the same rights and circumstances as they accompany them, say, are abroad or are living permanently abroad, that they cannot be the source of what I know, some circumstances that improve their status in voting in one way or another. The fact is that the automatic transmission of electoral material to all electoral beneficiaries and beneficiaries, without knowing whether they are all or not, violates the constitutional right to vote. Above all, the fact is that such sending of material with an official blank voice is illegal, unconstitutional and will otherwise be the subject of legal and other disputes. I myself may present some of these ridiculous cases to you in the second presentation, but I would not talk about it right now. The fact is, if we want to maintain elections with some rigour, with some legality, then we must not risk any hesitation. So far, the differences between the two candidates in the other ballots have been so great in the election for the President of the State that any minor malversion, if I may say so, or doubt, would not have affected the outcome. What happens when the elections and when the elections are very tight, then, as my colleague, Školč, mentioned, cannot happen that the fate of the elections and the results be determined in a court of law. That is why I call on you to reconsider this and not accept the decision of your mother's working body and make it possible for the law to move on to a follow-up procedure, because it is also necessary to agree with the Secretary of State who rejected Mr Školč's thesis, and I agree with him too. It is not true that the government's proposals are always good and the opposition's proposals are always bad. It is precisely orderly, the government's proposals are usually poor and the opposition's proposals are good. We agree on that with the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sure it's not surprising that Dr. Virant was already and may still be missing today. It would be very willing to refer, in particular from the point of view of the proposer of this law or of amendments and the addition of this law. I'd like to hear his views myself. This is interesting in particular because he would probably then argue his dissonant position with regard to the other position of the Government, which sounds, unfortunately, so it seems, apodic that none of what has already been decided can be changed. The law has been drafted by Members and Members of Parliament. In a way, according to tradition, such laws do not have a particularly strong prospect that, in fact, they will later be brought through the process to a decision and decision on the labour force, indicating that this will also happen today, so that it will be stopped. We in the DeSUS Group do not claim in advance that everything that has been prepared is good, but we do not think that it is good that this process now stops at this stage and therefore we do not have any prejudice to support further discussion on the law, possible improvements and the search for a greater chance of agreement. We were all the time because somehow it was announced that the Government was preparing a law that we would later talk about, and also willing to wait to say so on this government proposal. Now, it seems that there has been some kind of act, at least so it has been proclaimed in public that the Government is willing to make a difference with regard to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and that this is all it intends to do. This is probably not the best message to discuss and look for the best quality optimal version. The motioners point out that in the past, and this is not so far removed, there have been many complications, irregularities that there have been many concerns, doubts and so on about the decision of the State Election Commission to send ballots abroad, that there have been poor electoral directories and there are some such claims to which they refer. In short, in the past it has not been all the way we would have wanted, now it is an option, and we are also invited to do so by the Constitutional Court's decisions to change something in order to actually change it. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we support the view that there are sufficient reasons for discussion and that there are sufficient reasons for the necessary changes. We also take into account some of the concerns expressed by the House's Legislative and Legal Service. We propose that we reconsider before adopting a decision by the parent working body to stop this proposal from changing and supplementing the law in order to seek solutions that would satisfy the vast majority of us. Among other things, because the deadlines set by the Constitutional Court with the rulings are very close, and because, after all, there are also national elections, which are still at stake in this case, just outside the door. The DeSUS Group will not support such a proposal for a decision as it was adopted on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u178	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word. I've heard before that the government will make a better marriage. Nice to meet you. Only when will the government make a better marriage? In this term or in the second term? The elections are in the fall, and I think we should make a lot of adjustments to these elections. However, if we correct this just before the elections, then this will also apply to these elections. It would therefore make sense to adopt this proposal prepared by the opposition. But if this is not accepted - and I think that the proposal of the parent working body will be put to the vote and the law will not be approved for further consideration - it would make sense for the Government to take into account the reflection in the preparation of its law, namely that it should vote in the elections in the Republic of Slovenia only the citizen of Slovenia who lives outside our home country who pays taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. We have a whole range of citizens in Argentina who do not contribute a cent to the Slovenian budget, but decide what will happen in Slovenia, what will happen in Slovenia and so on. I think it's unfair - they vote in Argentina, they vote in us, or they vote in Italy and in us, and so on. The fact is, whoever contributes to the cash register has some rights. But he can't have the right of someone who doesn't give anything for everything. We were used to doing this in the former country when some who gave nothing collected the most from the common pot. The purpose of the law is, first of all, to change the deadlines within the framework of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and lay down clear rules in the voting of citizens by post. The hands make a lot of sense. After all, it is wise to consider when votes are still valid only those ballots which arrived by post by 19:00 on the day of the vote. Now we have a choice that we can wait 14 days for, I think, and the results just can't be announced. They may be declared if there are major differences between individual candidates or individual clients. However, if these differences are small, they can weigh one voice or a few votes. Therefore, I do not think it makes sense to leave these hands as long as they are, and it makes sense for this matter to be corrected as proposed in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. Also, the fact that a member of the electoral committee cannot be a person who is closest to someone who is a candidate does not go together. Let's see what happened in the municipality of Koper, where a mayor had all the jade on the electoral committee. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] How? Ah, sorry, Isola, no. Well, maybe there was something else. We really can't let that happen. And that also prevents this law. There are still some such wise proposals, but the government has decided and the coalition will vote in agreement with the Government, which is clear and understandable. However, I hope that the representative of the Government will read this magnetogram once or twice and will take into account what is in this bill, as well as what some Members have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honors are here! In addition to the referendum, the elections are overwhelming, I'll say, democratic decision-making in our country. What happened in the last presidential elections should simply not happen anymore. We must not allow this to happen again in the national elections. To this end, a proposed amendment to the law was also proposed. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had a genuine interest in amending this law before the upcoming elections, it could have participated in the drafting of this law, amended it or otherwise affected its adoption. The law introduces some things that, in our belief, the Group of Non-Aligned Members, known as Lipa, would introduce some news. Firstly, voters who have permanent residence abroad could vote on the proposed amendment by post if it was communicated to the State Election Commission. Secondly, the so-called blank voice is removed. Thirdly, the vote shall be taken into account if it is confirmed by the diplomatic and consular representation or by the body in this composition. And for the fourth time, the election or election outcome shall be carried out in accordance with the accepted mail by 7 p.m. The debate on the Internal Policy Committee was, of course, broader and touched on the so-called electoral committees and the electoral advantages that each party would have in the course of the elections. It was mentioned, and this is where the government did not react, nor did it promise to change legislation, which is the fact that some prominent representatives of the government coalition in some municipalities, and I will be very specific, it is the congregation of Šentilj, it is the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that they even allowed the van to drive people for early elections in order to promise them, I will say, a bowl of stew if they circle the elections properly. The point is, in some election committees, there was also the fact that candidates had voters in their own home or weekends. These are also things that shed a very dark light on the form of democracy in this country, on the form of democracy in this government and on the fact that laws need to be amended because they allow such opportunities. It seems to me that whatever such doing is shameful, shameful for democracy, shameful for the government. If the government cannot provide a different majority than that, it is the moral obligation of those competing in elections. But the fact is, these things happen. And if the Government had an interest in preventing such things from happening again in the national elections, it would have been involved in drafting this law. But no, the government has decided and said, we will prepare some of our proposals for a law that we don't know yet whether it will happen before or after the elections. We also did not get this response to the Internal Policy Committee. "We are preparing it," they also could not tell us whether it would cover all the problems that have been raised by members of the opposition parties on the committee, or whether it would cover only the problems seen by the government coalition. It's also a question of what this law will be like. But the fact is, the inconveniences I mentioned are happening. And if we allow them, they will cast a dark light on the form of democracy and on the election of a number of members of this Parliament. And that's not right. That is why we will support the draft amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Grims, on behalf of the SDS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u182	Your Honor! I think that one procedural question would first be to ask: Is the Constitution still in force in this country? I seriously ask you, because in view of the previous debates, even with what honorable exception, but mostly, I would find that the Constitution obviously does not apply in some people's opinion. Unless, of course, those opposition colleagues think they can decide who they are and when they are. For in Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues, the Constitution stipulates that we are all the same before the law and that every citizen and every citizen who fulfils the legal conditions, that is, that he is old enough not to be deprived of the rightful capacity, the right to vote and be loved. He has an active and passive electoral right. And it does not put citizens on first-class citizens and second-class citizens who are worthy of shame and can be attributed to them anything - exactly what you do in the opposition. The law before us today is, in fact, a shameful continuation of a very sad and tragic story that testifies to the extremely low political culture of the Slovenian opposition, a large part of it that we have witnessed in the last election of the president of the country. At that time, there was a whole campaign based on an assumption that there was a trail of some strange rabbles abroad, just waiting for everyone to cheat on these elections, and that this country must now be saved from this huge fraud that is to come. Then the first round of voting was carried out under this law. Who guesses how many irregularities have been detected by the Republic Election Commission? According to the official report, as far as I know, nothing. But the campaign continued, and the story was repeated in the second round. And this story is still going on until today. It's playing emotions again, it's played out that once in the past decades people who were abroad have been treated as an external enemy, just as they've been searching for the entire time of an internal enemy. And these prejudices are still based on such a campaign today. As if those outside would not be people to be citizens and citizens of this country who are loyal to them, many of them have a more positive attitude towards this country than many of those who have even been behind this speaker panel before. And they proved this by their actions when they exposed themselves for her independence, for her recognition, for her reputation. None of them ever spoke abroad and lied about independent Slovenia, as many of you did when it came to the question of the Roma. But when the Roma Assembly was up there and they found that Slovenia is the most friendly country to the Roma in Europe, or what is in the world, as was finally established, I am very interested in why nothing is said and written about it. Because it would have turned out to be a dirty campaign. Just as there was an endlessly dirty campaign that you had against our citizens and citizens abroad, it was as if, if they were working abroad, they had done anything wrong. Not to mention the proposals that have now appeared here to be, but by the way not for the first time, because some of the opposition have already considered that they should bind the right to vote on the right or to pay taxes. Well, please, let me ask you a little bit in Europe what they think about this, even Americans who have discussed these things a lot more radically in recent years, we can take all that wisdom into an anecdote that's tied to George Washington when they asked him what he thinks about it, and he said, "You know, if I have an ass and I pay tax for it, then I'm a taxpayer and I have the right to vote. If an ass dies, I don't pay taxes anymore, and I can't vote anymore. Now you tell me, who is the electorate in this country, an ass or a man?" This is the story you're discussing. And here it is that this country, as the home country of Slovenia and Slovenians and the country of all Slovenian citizens and citizens, could be aware of its commitment to do everything possible to enable any citizen and citizen to fulfil their civic responsibilities in the simplest possible manner possible, of which the elections must be the first. From this point of view, the law now in force is certainly significantly better than the previous alternatives to which you want to return, just to revive the prejudices that I have hoped for, because we have also confirmed the end of the story concerning the European Union and the Treaty of Lisbon, which speaks of the values that they have long survived.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll do my best to respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the Constitution, I will refer to the decisions taken by the Constitutional Court and this proposal to reject amendments and amendments to the electoral law does not take account of them. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, the representative shall, on behalf of the Group of Members, interpret the views of the Group of Members and shall not dispute with others. I know we don't all have the same rights here, but I will abide by these obligations. The Social Democrats' parliamentary groups will not vote on the proposed decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Not only because she is a co-proposer of the law, but mainly because opposition to further consideration of the bill points to the extreme immigration of the ruling coalition and the government to the fulfilment of constitutional provisions and the principle of legality. The proposed law implements two decisions of the Constitutional Court, by which it has been found that they are inconsistent with the Constitution of a solution which does not prohibit members of the electoral committees from being persons who are related to candidates in the elections and who do not regulate the manner of voting by post in such a way that timeliness can be indisputably established by mail of the ballots delivered. These two issues need to be addressed by the legislator. And there is no warning that the proposer, together with the amendment he has tabled on the basis of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, would not properly regulate this law. For these two reasons no law should therefore be rejected, since such conduct would be contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, we are convinced that this is not the only reason. The law must be supported and allowed to be upgraded and adopted in order to eliminate the unacceptable differences that apply to the system of elections of our citizens with permanent residence abroad, compared with those of citizens who reside permanently or temporarily abroad. The current system is regulated to justify doubts about respect for the principle of equality before the law and principles that guarantee equality of electoral rights, the personal exercise of elections, the secrecy of elections and the fairness of determining the results of elections. These are the most important principles that must apply to the credibility of each electoral system. If electoral directories for nationals abroad are drawn up without checking the identity, address and even the countries of residence and on this basis their accuracy is not even 50% if, on the basis of such inaccurate directories abroad, ballots and electoral cards are sent to all those registered, without any verification of the actual data, if everyone without the supervision of officials can fulfil an empty ballot and an electoral card, and no one can rule out the possibility that anyone else can, then such an election does not give assurance of fairness. And we wanted to put an end to such doubts in good faith. In recent days, even the Department of Public Administration has indirectly acknowledged this, and the Prime Minister of the Government has banned him from making such promises to the opposition. It's really sad, but it's real. This time, too, the well-known behaviour of the government and the coalition is repeated that a solution can be taken only if proposed by the Government, regardless of its content. The government therefore thinks it is infallible, even though it has found the Constitutional Court several times differently. Everything else he promises, he only does because of his public appearance. Therefore, all the arguments are against the proposal that the law should not be adopted as a basis for further consideration. I hope that the ruling coalition will recognise this and, together with us, vote against the proposed decision that the law is not a suitable basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our parliamentary group, or parliamentary club, will, of course, vote against this kind of decision. At the same time, it is true to say that, as some of the coordinators of these changes, we have listened to all the comments we have heard from other parliamentary groups and also from governments that have improved the text. Thus, we have adopted in the basic text of the law a comment submitted by SDS Members, namely, that, on the issue of the incompatibility of members of the electoral commissions and candidates on the lists, it is also necessary to regulate the incompatibility of registered same-sex communities. That's why I'm here to thank them publicly. This is also the only concern they have really shown. Second. Together with other applicants, we have also tabled a supplement summarizing the Government's comments on the incompatibilities of these members of the electoral committees and of the candidates on the lists. We've summarized their solution. We thought she was better. We were also prepared to settle another issue in these processes and discussions in a different way. But we have encountered what we call a prior rejection. And that's what we witnessed here today. My colleague Grimes talked about everything else, only the things we proposed in the marriage, not. Therefore, I must say that the text of the amendments does not in any way bring about the idea of linking the right to vote with the one who pays the contributions. That's not in the marriage. In no way did the law mention either the Roma or the Roma Congress, in fact, the group belonging to it objected the most when it was necessary to include this in the programme of the event during the presidency. The praises we heard there, of course, I was very happy. The praises relate to the general arrangement, but I have not heard anyone there particularly commend those who, with the help of the police, expelled one particular Roma family from their home. I have not heard this, but I have heard that representatives of these same associations have bitterly spoken against this kind of procedure. But it also has nothing to do with this text. This is obviously a type of issue of prestige, not a solution to the problem. And it is a question of whether the Constitution really applies to all the same. Even when we suggested that the post office vote should be different, we tried to protect not only the constitutional equality of voters and voters. For those who vote by post in the Republic of Slovenia, if we limit ourselves only to this, not to all who have the right to vote, nor to those who are in the same position with all those who can vote by post who live temporarily or permanently outside the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] We also protected the key institute, which is an institute of inviolability of secret elections. It has been shown that the solutions brought about by the current arrangements allow for a number of abuses. Luckily, there weren't many of them, but still, there were a few. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It turned out that people who had died had received electoral material twice, and it turned out that those who were not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia had also received electoral material. [[...]] These are three situations that dictate a regime change. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u188	What more do you want? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! The draft amendment to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Školč, mainly refers to the vote of voters by post, who reside permanently or temporarily abroad. The proposed amendment of the law should be led, in particular, by complications in last year's election of the President of the Republic, for which there was a lot of noise by the opposition, without a real basis, as there were no irregularities. In summary, the proposal contains the incompatibilities of the membership of a person on the electoral committee, which is related to the candidate in the elections, the changes already mentioned in relation to the voting from abroad, suggesting that voters resident abroad should vote by post only if they express their express wish to communicate this to the State Election Commission 30 days before the vote. They propose the abolition of officially empty ballots. The vote shall be taken into account only if it is confirmed by the diplomatic and consular representation or the authority responsible for the verification, while the law in force shall take into account if the vote is signed by hand. And they propose to take into account the ballots which arrived by post by 7 p.m. on the day of the vote. While the ballots which arrive by post are now taken into account by 12.00 p.m. on the day of the vote and those which arrive from abroad by 12.00 p.m. on the 8th day following the day of the vote. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed amendment significantly weakens the voting conditions of Slovenians around the world, which were governed by the last amendment of the electoral law to the National Assembly. Moreover, we believe that the proposed solutions are worse than the regime before the changes in 2006. Novela is going in the direction of practically preventing Slovenian citizens with permanent residence outside the Republic of Slovenia to vote in the post office because an empty voice is being removed and it is expected to return by 7 p.m. on the day of the vote, which is virtually impossible for the ballots to return in time. The Novela also makes it difficult to confirm the electoral cards as it again requires confirmation of the identity of the competent authority. In doing so, allow me to mention the surprise of the New Slovenia Group regarding the statement made by the Minister, who said that he would suggest that we return to the old regime, so that those who wish to vote by mail from abroad would receive this in advance to Slovenia and only get electoral material on this basis. In the New Slovenia Group we were surprised by such a statement. For the first time, because the provisions of the electoral legislation that we would like to amend have been drafted by his ministry. Secondly, because a representative of the Ministry had been assured on the committee that the electoral legislation on voting by post from abroad would not change. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u192	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. The distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! For the introduction, I would like to wish Minister Virant a successful post of operational recovery, and I expect him to prepare, as soon as possible, a law with such an address as we consider today, which will remove any dilemmas that have arisen both in the last local elections and in the election of the President of the State and will take into account both decisions of the Constitutional Court which have touched this case or the irregularities that have occurred in these elections. Now specifically to the law and position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We believe that the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is not consistent enough in law, that it conflicts with other regulations and does not contain sufficiently clear and detailed rules to enable the exercise of electoral law in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As a solution, it is proposed to introduce incompatibilities of membership on the electoral committee for those persons who are related to the candidate in the elections. Although the Constitutional Court found that the law on local elections was inconsistent in the work relating to the non-conformity of membership, it was not the law on elections in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, of course, we agree that arrangements in local elections cannot be distinguished from arrangements for all others and other elections. The decision of the Constitutional Court must undoubtedly be respected. However, we consider the proposed solution to be unacceptable or not feasible. We do not imagine that each of the thousands of members of the electoral committees would continue to check whether anyone is related to the candidate in the elections. Indeed, the exercise of the elections itself would be significantly hampered in this way. As has already been said in the Committee on Internal Policy, the Government will propose a new law on elections to the National Assembly. We also agree with the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the proposal that the non-compatibilities of membership in the electoral committee be prescribed, but that it would be a more effective solution for members of the electoral committees to be obliged to inform the district electoral commission of their relative relationship with the candidate in the elections after the public publication of the candidate lists. We believe that a criminal provision would be sufficient to respect such an arrangement, which would impose a high penalty for violating this provision of the law. It is also proposed in the law under consideration that voters from abroad should vote by post only if it is communicated in advance to the State Election Commission. Since the last presidential elections have shown a positive effect on the regime by which electoral material is sent to all voters, we do not see any reason for amending the law in this chapter or in this provision. Also, the solution envisaged for the vote is to be taken into account only if they are confirmed by the diplomatic-consular representative or body in the country in which the electorate resides permanently or temporarily responsible for the certification of the signature, we do not think it necessary. We also need to know that so far, the means to confirm the voting cards by post have proved to be insufficient, especially for those voters living in countries where there is no diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia, or this representation is very remote. The 2006 Law stipulated that votes coming from abroad should be taken into account until 12 noon on the eighth day following the date of the vote. Now, the motioners propose to take into account only the votes which will arrive by mail by 19:00 on the day of the vote. We cannot agree with this because there is a risk that such a significant number of electoral beneficiaries who, on the day of the vote abroad, will be prevented from exercising the right to vote, which is guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, no matter where they have temporary or permanent stay on the day of the vote. For the reasons stated in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the Internal Policy Committee that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the will of the President of the Republic, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with Mr Jožef Školč, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Drag Koren, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u194	Have a nice hello again. At its 41st meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered the draft law amending the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with Mr Jožef Školc for consideration following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposal, Members: Josef Školč, Sašo Peče and Miran Potrč, explained that the bill was created by the complications of this year's election of the President of the Republic. Additional explanations were given in the context of the examination of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service gave a written opinion on the proposal for a law, which states that the proposed regulation is accompanied by the same observations and warnings as in the opinion of the draft Law on Elections in the National Assembly. The draft law was given its opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the draft law is linked to the draft Law on Elections to the National Assembly, with which Members propose an amendment to Article 87. Since the Government opposes this original amendment of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, it also opposes this bill because it considers that there is no need and that the regime would make it difficult to exercise the electoral rights of citizens living abroad in contravention of the Constitution. The members of the committee discussed the draft law in the context of the debate on the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, raised in particular the question of the appropriateness of the electoral directories in relation to voting abroad and found that, if they were not regulated, there would be legitimate doubts as to the correctness of the elections. They also raised the issue of equal voting rights abroad and in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were tabled to the bill. Finally, the Committee decided that the draft law was not suitable for further consideration and proposed that such a decision should also be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill to present the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Joseph Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In some parts it would certainly be necessary to repeat all those things I said before. Unfortunately, this procedure is such that it does not give an opportunity to explain everything very precisely, but it would be necessary. Because also colleague Bajc has actually rejected things, say, within the previous point, which we have arranged very precisely and exactly as he has spoken. Why am I saying this? This is not disputed by what he said but by someone else, but it is a confirmation of this thesis that nothing that does not come from government ministers, and now we know what does not have the blessing of the Supreme Commander of the Government, is not good enough for it to be dealt with in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State also said that these matters should be handled precisely. And yet when we open them, they're arranged for force, and the coalition blindly rejects it. Not all of them. I apologize to my colleagues in Dessus. In this case, not all of them, but usually. But now let's stay with these things. The arrangements we have for the election of the President are, in some ways, inadvertent. I did not oppose this idea of making it as simple as possible for people around the world to vote for the president or other authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. But I wanted to and today so much more that it was done in a way that did not leave a shadow of doubt. These solutions that we have are unfortunately unthinkable and require changes. For see, this solution to be sent to all, whether they want it or not, by a list that is not completely settled, has not brought such a desirable, singing goal that virtually everyone abroad would elect the President of the Republic. The number of electoral beneficiaries has increased from negative 15,000 to 70,000, but later it turned out that more than 30,000 could not send this material at all - I speak for the election of the President of the Republic. The material that was sent did not result in a substantial increase in the votes delivered. So a large number of loudspeakers ended up, most likely, at home in dumpsters. But it is also a right that, fortunately, our citizens and citizens have to vote or not to vote. It's just here that maybe everyone imagines that everyone wants to vote and that everyone has enough information to vote. But even from those poor 40,000 voices we sent abroad, it must be said that 13.013 came back to the electoral commission. It is because in six thousand cases the title was unknown, in three thousand and twenty-two cases the title was incomplete, in two thousand and four hundred and seventy-seven cases the title was moved, in one hundred and sixty-six cases the material was not taken over, in two hundred and eighty cases, Comrade Grims died, and in eight hundred and ninety-five cases we do not know what happened. Thus, about the same number of voices as we got them back were also returned. And these are the things that I would like to talk about and where I think we have made only one mistake in this material, that we have written that this has no financial implications for the budget. A change in this law would save the budget some of the funds, as we would not throw away the money for postage for those who do not have the will to vote or for those for whom we do not have an electoral record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u198	At the same time as I say that the DeSUS Group will not support the proposal of the parent working body, I ask myself, for an introduction, what is actually the point of wasting time now, if I ask myself whether this is a waste of time, given the expected result of the later vote and which will not change at all, whether we are now speaking or not. Well, my answer is pure entropy, at least for that matter. Even a few things are unpleasant and dangerous, for those who might have expressed their thoughts point out that a pyroman would first throw fire at him and then try to save him in such a way as to pour manure on him. Well, that's not exactly something we'd be very happy to do, so I'm just going to give you a brief overview of the position of the Dessus Group. We think that elections are important, we think that the rights we call active and passive electoral rights are important, and we think that it is very important that there really is not too much of this shadow in the elections, which can often be very narrow. The DeSUS delegation has experienced this in recent elections, even after it was clear to everyone that it had exceeded the threshold, it has been dragging the tail through the media for some time, a tail that raised the question whether or not they would have been pushed out of Parliament. Moreover, for us, so at least we think, it is good that Minister Gregor Virant has come forward, so some believe that there is a need to express amazement, some others express satisfaction in this and we are happy, but it is true that the wonder is the source of philosophy and let people be surprised, as far as they are concerned, because the wonder causes the question, only the question causes the thought of the causes, the ideas, the principles and so on. And that's good, if we bring this to our parliament, all too little is present. We believe that the reasons, arguments, proposals by content are almost identical to those presented in relation to the law that was the subject of the previous item on the agenda. We also believe that it is not the most correct response of the Government, which is afraid that if we did not send to all possible addresses and non-titles of empty ballots, then credibility would be compromised because we would not allow everyone to vote. If they don't get home, not abroad, anywhere else, we don't stop anyone. We are also counting on the importance of pro-activeness in freedom and in the right to vote, so that people do not become so perplexed that some want to get just completed ballots home so that the effort is not too great. In short, everyone has, according to our judgment, a chance in no way to express his will regarding the election. And the return to what we knew before is quite sufficient, so we will reject the proposal to support what the Committee on Internal Policy has concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, we will also vote against the decision of the parent working body. I don't know how meaningful it is to talk about the law itself, because it's a known fact that the coalition will reject the law. Try to get more votes at the expense of "Gogol's Dead Souls", even at the expense of all those "White" who fled after World War II abroad and no longer speak Slovenian, at the expense of all those who are descendants of Slovenes and also do not know Slovenian, this will be kept by the Government. The coalition will not let this go, despite the fact that the matter has not proved to be as successful as it was desired. After all, many of those who received this mail abroad could not even read what it says or what it is about. And most of these people threw it all in the trash. Some tried to make a business out of it, because that's what they can do. Since it's not written on the paper, what's going on, who's up there, who's supposed to be up there, there's a lot of things that could have been done. To sell, resell votes and that is what some in Slovenia have done, and why not some abroad? I think the law makes sense. It would make sense to implement it, but it is very difficult for the coalition to say that the opposition has drawn up a good law. Unfortunately, the current coalition is doing the same as the previous coalitions did: what comes from the opposition is bad, and the end! Perhaps this coalition will be so much better that at least the solutions contained in this law will be put into the legislative process over time and present them as its own, so that at least the solution will be used and implemented. I mean, it doesn't make any sense to explain what's going on with the marriage anyway. The fact is that the law makes sense that we will vote against the decision of the parent working body, which we consider not to be professional, but that it is strictly political, perhaps even more political than any other decision, but that is all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The bill, as proposed by the proposer, has nothing terrible, nothing that could not be supported. I'll say, to some extent, certain electoral deadlines are being extended. In order to ensure the effective enforceability of electoral rights, the applicants propose that, in order to ensure that electoral rights are effectively enforceable, I stress the actual enforceability of electoral rights, and that the deadline for the delivery of ballots by post is adapted to the legal deadline. And what does the actual enforceability of electoral law mean? This means what we all want together to ensure to the electorate and the electorate, no matter where they come from - either from the Republic of Slovenia, or from abroad, from wherever - to enable them to do so. The fact that has taken place in the last presidential elections is unacceptable and unacceptable. That's unacceptable. No matter who's after me, in front of me or later, it's unacceptable. That they returned so many and so many, 13,000 voices around, because they were sent to some addresses where there are no people -- unfortunately, in some cases these people have even died, but they were sent anyway -- it seems completely unacceptable to me. As far as the words are concerned, it is tragic, what the opposition allows, in connection with this and the previous law. No! No! Tragic is what this coalition allows at individual elections. It's tragic. People are laughing, I stress once again, laughing when the High Representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party is driving people to the nuisance, so that they can make the right decision where they are going to vote and how and who they are going to vote for. That's tragic! They're sending voice mails to someone who's already died, but it's morbid, not just tragic. But that's what this government allows. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thanks for the heads-up. And there's one other thing I'd like to say. That's 13,000 votes, too, cca. The 13,000 votes that came back are legally inadmissible. And when the Government claimed that it was preparing its law, its amendments to the law, it would be very happy or probably everyone in this Chamber would be very pleased if the representative of the Government told us when these changes would be on our tables, what they would be like, when we would consider them, whether they would be before the new election of the President of the country, whether they would say so before the elections to the National Assembly, or if they did so for some reason to reject the good solutions proposed by the opposition. These are the questions that we ask for answers to. Not only questions about whether this law is appropriate, whether it is good, or really follows all the goals. If any objective is not pursued, the government coalition had the opportunity to participate in the design, the possibility of amendments, whatever, to supplement this law. But she didn't do it. The government will prepare an integral law. When? What's it gonna involve? Will he also regulate these mistakes that we are alerting us to today? These are the answers we demand. For the time being, there are no such answers, and if someone is lazy and does not know what he will do, it is better to accept the offer, cannot harm, the solutions are good, excellent, compared with what the Government has done, which has done nothing and needs to be supported. But the government can still accept a month, two, three when it feels necessary, let a new marriage. That is why we will support the proposed amendments to the unconnected Members' Group of Members, Lipa. Once again, it is a tragic form of how the government coalition has been implementing and, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] The election coalition. [[...]] I'm sorry, not the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grims, on behalf of the SDS Task Force. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u204	Respectable. To make it clear what is the essence of this legislation proposed by the opposition and that this is essentially a return to the previous, already surviving situation, to the old solutions in the law, let me give an example of what actually caused these solutions in practice. Since people there, across the ocean, live and feel the truth with their homeland, years ago, when the previous law was still in force, they organized themselves; watch out, they sent a man to take their envelopes, closed envelopes with filled ballots, so at their expense, by plane across the ocean to the Slovenian Election Commission. Because the state did not take care of them and accepted them as unjust and abusive, and apparently also as an unconstitutional law. For the right to vote in elections is a constitutional right and the state must do its utmost to ensure that this right is available to every citizen and every citizen. It is even sadder that this great effort and sacrifice of theirs failed, because the complications at the border and the air carriers had also arrived a few hours too late, and again 2,000 votes remained invalid because they had come after the deadline for sending the votes. And all the thousands and thousands of voices of invalid, Slovenian citizens and citizens who have expressed their positive attitude in this way, you have no problem with this. No, no, no, no, no! Those are some suspicious dicks! The one over there, across the ocean, in America. But no! You will divide citizens and citizens into those first and second rankings. First and second grade, it's like we haven't been seeing this work for 45 years since World War II. And we'd keep doing that. How sad that is! By the way, sending notices, and paraphrasing your words, including sending notices of elections that everyone in Slovenia receives, are sent to those who want to vote as well as to those who do not want to. This does not guarantee the so-called goal of 100% participation in the elections. I'm just paraphrasing your words. And many also return or remain undelivered because, unfortunately, those addressed to them died between the time of the vote and the day of the vote. Because you're manipulating someone's death. Of course, electoral directories will need to be maximised, adapted, properly edited and this is it. However, it is necessary to have arrangements to promote the links of our citizens and citizens abroad with their country of origin. And this current arrangement is benevolent, it's appropriate, it's correct. It enables the exercise of constitutional rights. What you are proposing, however, we have seen in practice, in many experiences, in many elections, does not allow this. But that doesn't bother you, because you're dealing with something else entirely - your politics, not your constitutional rights. By the way, if you allow yourself to even cut down on lies, let me just read what we sent in relation to this proposed legislation, when it was said earlier that we only pointed out what it was and that this was the only comment we had: "In the SDS Group we believe that the proposed amendments are too vague and unconsistent, nor do they follow the full content of the decisions and explanations of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the exercise of electoral law. With regard to the proposal to abolish the official blank votes, you do not make any concrete arguments. At the time of the election for the President of the State, there was a great persecution against the provisions in force, which was pure politics, since not one single instance of a double-vote attempt has been identified, as pointed out by the motioners of this law. In our view, the solutions proposed are unfounded and criminal and offensive to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. The proposed solutions deny the right of citizens to exercise their fundamental constitutional right in a way that enables them to exercise it effectively and not only in a way that allows them to realize it. In the past, there has been a verifiable regime that the applicants obviously want to reinstate and which has led to thousands of voices from abroad being invalid because they arrived too late, despite the fact that the electorates themselves organised something that the country was obliged to organise. They took care of the personal transmission of mail from abroad to the National Election Commission. In the SDS Group, we are committed to maintaining the existing regime adopted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and allowing the real realization of fundamental constitutional rights to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the same way. In our opinion, the proposed regulation by the motioners of this novel divides citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia into first- and second-class citizens and citizens, and is therefore in fundamental contravention of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." I think this letter, Mr. Skullsch, was more than clear enough. And we've just repeated that today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u205	Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This bill is, as it is said, directly linked to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, on the question of elections by mail from abroad, where citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, voters, permanent or temporary residence. We are convinced that the law must eliminate those weaknesses or inadequacies that might give rise to the impression that the elections were not fair and proper. And it is too short for voters who are on the day of the vote abroad, because they are staying there temporarily or permanently, to prevent timely voting by post and thus objectively prevent the exercise of electoral rights. Also now, due to inadequate deadlines for the formal outcome of the elections, it is necessary to wait for an unwarranted period of time. It is precisely to ensure, to the fullest extent possible, general and equal electoral rights, that we propose the present changes, which should also express that we are all equal before the law, that it is not possible for anyone to vote twice, but for others who have the same electoral right, not once. Not to lose words about the so-called 'dead souls', and we have quite a bit of information about these latter that the electoral cards in the last presidential elections abroad have also passed away. More appropriate deadlines for the execution of electoral tasks are, however, only one of the conditions, the necessary conditions for the proper conduct of elections. Look, in fact, we are proposing that, despite the fact that you do not accept, obviously, that electoral law in the National Assembly, we should decide that this electoral law of the President of the Republic is suitable for further consideration. For here we propose only those amendments to the deadlines directly applicable to the candidate for president and then, let's say that the application is submitted directly to the Republican Election Commission no later than 25. 30th day before the day of the vote and the corresponding extended deadlines, which would in any way be acceptable and rational. And we do not understand this arrogance by the government and the coalition, because in any case it is a law that is adopted for a two-thirds majority of all Members. The Government will also need the same two-thirds majority of all Members for its proposed law. Will she then be as arrogant as she is today? I hope not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to convince you to open the way to these changes, because otherwise you will be ridiculous when you propose them yourself and there will be no excuse for any other than the government's suggestion. On these matters, when we spoke them, and which I had said before, I was completely corrected. And also as regards the comments made on these materials, which we have also sent to Members and Members of the opposition together with all the opposition colleagues. On the SDS side, we have received a comment that we have some shortcomings regarding the composition of the electoral committees, we have taken this comment into account, everything else that we have listened to here, can be said very briefly, but it is about the fact that the SDS has said that it is unacceptable and therefore sucks. In this respect, it is not possible to hold a serious debate on this subject, despite the fact that some of these matters need to be changed, those previously, also because of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Me and my colleagues in the LDS are getting pretty nervous about this instigation that we are all on average suspected of electors and voters around the world. I'm sure that's not true. If we suspect anyone, if anyone is under suspicion, they're not electives and voters abroad, but they're SDS and the influence they're trying to provide on this state apparatus and directly on the electoral apparatus. Finally, the amendments to the rules on the sending of ballots around the world came upon the proposal of Mr Strnad, who was elected to the electoral commission in this National Assembly and was, if I am not mistaken, the secretary of the SDS. How this meeting took place and how informally it became formal and how it created a major complication is the subject of another discussion. But, under suspicion and for that reason, we point to the need for electoral change and by clear rules - is SDS. There can be no doubt about that. If anyone tries to bribe anyone to steal something, then I'll be here appropriately rude and I'll say that they want to organise some of the voting votes obviously SDS, or else they'll agree to an open debate, looking for solutions that would allow the shadow to be doubtful about any voice. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. As it is said, the novel we are discussing is tied to the previous point concerning the elections to the National Assembly. It refers to the vote by post of those electors who reside permanently or temporarily abroad. The proposers shall propose amendments after which the votes will be taken into account by 19:00 on the day of the vote, while the legislation in force shall take into account those votes which have arrived by post by 12 noon on the eighth day following the day of the vote. In the opinion of the applicant, some tasks for the election of the President of the Republic should therefore be initiated five days earlier than the law in force. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the changes are not appropriate because, despite the postponement of the electoral process for 5 days, there would be a risk that a significant number of electoral beneficiaries who are on the day of the foreign vote, because they are temporarily or permanently resident there, could not exercise their electoral rights and vote as provided by the Constitution. With regard to the electoral records, however, we want to say that we are aware that they are not perfect for the reasons we know, but that it takes time; it is time to build, clean and supplement. Everyone needs to be given an opportunity and can thus be reminded of his right, since at home every voter gets home first notice. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the position of the Home Committee that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Since the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic are related to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, they could only repeat this point on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Amendments to the time limits of Articles 15, 17, 19 and 24 shall relate to the postal voting of voters who reside permanently or temporarily abroad. It is a matter of adapting the legal deadlines, submitting the applications, withdrawing the consent of the candidates and publishing the list of candidates. Since the proposer proposes to take into account only ballots which arrived by post by 19:00 on the day of the vote, different deadlines are now proposed for certain electoral events for the election of the President of the Republic. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we do not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the electoral law to the National Assembly because we believe that the proposed amendments would constitute a risk of a significant number of electoral beneficiaries who reside there on the day of the vote abroad being temporarily or permanently unable to exercise electoral rights, which is one of the fundamental constitutional rights. Given that we do not support the amendments to the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, it is also logical that we do not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, because we believe that these changes are not necessary or that some would even make it difficult for citizens living abroad to exercise electoral rights for such or other reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u214	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! One more time, and I mean one last time. Elections are a serious matter. There must be no shadow of doubt over them. Elections by post, from abroad and some others, as has already been said, have to be regulated by decisions of the Constitutional Court. You've talked a lot about the equality of electoral law and equality before the law. It should be known that electoral law - passive, even more active - is that electoral law assumes minimum active citizenship. In Slovenia too, if you want, we have to make some effort to get to the polls, fill out this ballot and put it in the ballot box. 30% of citizens and citizens don't do that. And why would it be so difficult and too difficult if someone living abroad failed to demonstrate their active citizenship and asked for material to be able to vote? What's so heavy, so unusual?Oh, my God! If someone is interested in the situation in the country, who will lead, who will not lead the country, they will be able to afford it, and they will. And I don't know what the problem is! As the voter in Slovenia will have to refer to the electorate. And from this point of view, as I said, to vote means, of course, to be at least a minimally active citizen, and to the absurdity, you have driven the idea that we will send invitations for elections to all citizens. I have no reason not to tell "Urbi et Orbi" online or all potential and incompetent citizens that elections are in Slovenia. I have no problem with this if you think that the costs justify the objective and the means of purpose. I would also like to say that an official empty voice is an unprecedented scandal. See comparatively in both laws how they are written, described in colors, and otherwise coded, prescribed papers, and so on, that there is no counterfeiting and abuse of voting rights. That's not what we have. And if you think you can use such an official blank voice, I'd say we're pushing our way into a better democracy, you're wrong. I give you an example, one of my colleagues called a distant friend from Canada-Slovenia, and I think Serbian families, the environment, and she said, "You, what did we get some paper? What's going on?" And he said to her, "Yes, it's an election!" "What am I supposed to do with this?" What do you think my colleague said? I won't tell you! And how many more such elections have been held! I know that on a website sponsored by the Slovenian state, that one candidate has been announced for the presidential elections alone, I will not tell you because you will guess who he was and the others have forgotten, including our fellow Member, who is very loud and who is known at home and elsewhere. And there were a number of such things in which they say that people were elected in one way or another as an opportunity; by way of opportunity, because they were born - not like what I said, active citizens. Let us ask ourselves who chooses and how he chooses. And so I ask you to be aware, however, that elections must take place legally, that they must be legitimate and that we cannot move through this. And once again, I would say in particular this, this is actually a project of SDS, which, of course, is supported by others. Why they are doing this, we don't know, but we do know that we obviously want to take advantage of all the illegal possibilities if we get more votes for just one in the next or any other election. Thus we cannot go to elections in Slovenia. As far as the voicemails are concerned. I agree that it is possible - and that is all I will say - that it is possible that it must come by 19:00 on the day of the vote, a bit of sadness. We could fix this if we were at second reading. I am simply saying that it must be reliably concluded the day before the elections in Slovenia. Reliable! Otherwise, due to the time difference, it will actually be possible to post-festively direct the voting method in time zones that for two, four, six or eight hours [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u216	for Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u217	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. That's 5:00 and 20 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which will continue at 5 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u218	Dear Members and Members. We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 6. We vote, the vote is on. There are 57 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 33. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 34. We vote, the vote is on. There are 63 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 8. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 99. We vote, the vote is on. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 106. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thus, the amendment tabled in Article 106 speaks of the application of the provisions of the law in Article 3 24 months after adoption. This is about new assignments that congregation officials and thus the congregations are expected to receive under this law. These are specific tasks in monitoring traffic on state roads. So far, these tasks have been limited to local roads and peaceful transport only, and according to the content of this law, municipal officials are also supposed to monitor traffic on state roads in settlements. And since this is a very large work, since state roads are mostly carried out through settlements, except of course highways and fast roads, it is possible to expect that the municipalities will have a very large responsibility, how exactly after the adoption of this law to prepare a large enough number of directors to oversee traffic on state roads in settlements. At the same time, the State imposes this law on the municipalities that they are the ones who must buy fast - moving devices or fixed speed meters that will monitor the speeds of state roads and can also be found on local roads or streets in settlements. This is also an additional burden, an additional obligation, and for all of this will also need to be organised for the proper execution of penalties, information, recovery, in short, a large amount of work that the police are actually transferring to the municipalities in order to burden their work. A particular problem is the fact that we do not have uniform legislation in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia that would dictate how officials in each municipality will organise to carry out this control on state roads. At the very least, in our opinion, we certainly need a new law or a change to the law on regulation, in which we will determine that we are establishing local police. We do not have this, so that the approach of each congregation will be different. And I don't imagine the Road Traffic Safety Act when each municipality decides in particular how it will oversee traffic on state roads. We need at least 24 months to do this, in our opinion that the municipalities are being adequately prepared or, if necessary, amend another legal act allowing and enabling the proper training of the editors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The law in general is horrifying. Only a cop can write a law like that, no one else, because everyone else is thinking with their heads. Here we received a copy of those who work well, who do well, who respect the laws, who are also slapped, beaten by various editors, drunk or drunk, and then taken away by police officers, thrown into some kind of prison, of course only those who pay taxes. For those who are unemployed, those who deal with drugs, Gypsies who pay nothing, but receive only social support, are privileged. Nothing's gonna happen to that guy. That cop with the official Magno card is gonna fill up a tank of gas and let him go home, and he's gonna apologize for having to help someone who's been beaten by a gypsy. I think we've come to absurdity. What happens to such laws has nothing to do with parliamentaryism, nothing to do with order in the country, and nothing to do with creating a legal and fair and orderly state. These are laws, and this is one of those cases where we're essentially creating a police state. Repression at all ends and places. And repression, of course, is for those who are already repressing because they go to work because they respect laws because they pay taxes and because they also pay penalties. For those who don't pay them don't pay them, and they don't care. To let the police down and hunt down those who sell drugs, no! I'd say, and some of the clues show, as well as some cases, that the police are involved in the drug trade, so of course I'm not going to happen there. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u222	Mr. Jelinčič, we're talking about an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u223	We're talking about the amendment. We'll support the amendment. Thank God we'll support him, because it makes sense to support him, but I can't help but say something about the law, because that's the end of it all.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am." There's more than one. [[....]] I'm opening the application. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support the amendment of the Social Democrats, which allows this article, which discusses that traffic regulation should be taken over by municipal officials, will not be implemented until 2 years later. Indeed, this arrangement, as in the basic law that municipal officials are supposed to do, is not a good solution for future regulation and supervision of traffic on state roads that run through settlements. Why isn't it a good solution? At first glance, it seems that municipal officials will control traffic only on a small part of state roads that run through settlements. The fact is that almost or more than 40% of state roads are already built, as more than 40% of state roads in Slovenia pass through settlements, villages, cities, villages, etc. And that means the withdrawal of police officers from nearly half of the state roads in our country and on these roads, state roads, through settlements, they are expected to regulate and supervise almost exclusively traffic by municipal officials, who are not basically qualified for this work. Basically, police officers who visited and graduated from high school are trained to do this work, while municipal officials of some kind will be trained by police officers who will not master the job. Therefore, I think that a transitional period is urgently needed to put this into effect, in my view, a poor solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. Mr President-in-Office. The amendment before us does not speak of the things we have heard a little while ago, talking about extending one transitional period of application of the provisions of the law, which says that at times municipal officials will be able to deal with or regulate traffic on state roads. The amendment, as proposed for 24 months to be able to apply the provision of the law, is perhaps too short, in our opinion, according to the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa. Maybe another 12 months would be a good time, but still, this amendment is better than what the law proposes. Because municipal officials are not people who would be required when they are employed, when they are employed, to know the transport profession, traffic regulations and so on, and now we are telling them to do so. According to the many laws that this government has drawn up, we have given them a lot of new powers: from the use of weapons, such and different, from tear gas, foxes, whatever, fastenings, 24-hour detention, we are also imposing this story on them. We can't ask people to do the impossible! They're just city clerks. The amendment will be supported by the unaffiliated Members' Group of Members, Lipa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will also vote in favour of this amendment, especially because it is in my own right that the municipal editors who so far needed administrative education were said to have had a secondary or a higher or even higher vocational school with an administrative examination had no special knowledge of police skills. The Law on Editorial Services has already given them obligations requiring additional training but not in the field of traffic regulation. Now this law also imposes requirements for knowledge in the field of traffic regulation. The municipal government became the city police, the municipal police. And no matter what else, the respect we feel for the work of our police officers, contrary to this government, which, by the law on the abolition of police work, over 200,000 proposals on offences, simply cancelled, the work of the whole year and more Slovenian police officers - our respect for the editors is just as great. However, it is necessary to know that they are qualified for one type of work and therefore need additional training which they cannot obtain within three or six months. And that's why we're proposing an extension, that's all. Otherwise, it seems to us that it is too much to pass on some additional obligations to the municipal authorities just to relieve the police, but if so, [[End warning sign]] , then at least let us allow ourselves enough time to train our officers to do so, and let the government also ensure that it equips the congregations to do so. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Only Mr. Stebe has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the advocates of this amendment to postpone the implementation of this law are wrong. Municipal editors already have a very complicated device in their hands, which they type in a license plate and then give the order to print the ballots from this device, which they then place in a plastic bag and put it on your windshield when you commit a traffic violation, the wrong parking. These same municipal officials will have no major problems when they collect data from a speeding and detecting device and carry out sanctions in the same way. The vast majority of congregations support the use of speeding devices, so - called radars, which then penalize excessive speed violators, in settlements, as well as in parts of public roads or local roads. Why not, in fact, install these radars as in England, where they are used for having no cost with humpbacks that hinder everything, not only those who drive too fast, but also those who drive in accordance with speed limits. It is also possible to equip these radars with remote data transmission, and in one place in Slovenia all 210 municipalities are allowed to sanction and direct these letters with a request for payment of the penalty. This is a practice in England, and it is nothing that the congregation officials would not be able to do for themselves today. They will also protect this municipal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u232	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You've had, haven't you called on behalf of the delegation? I can't. I'm sorry. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 39. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 106. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of the vote and how far the law is, we consider it appropriate for a third hearing, and I ask the National Assembly to take it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 29. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 29.]] I find that the decision is adopted [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thanks for your help. I take it that the decision has not been taken. That's true. As the proposed decision has not been adopted, the Council of State will hold the third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Third Review Act prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We vote, the vote is on. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal for a trade law, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We vote Yes, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Group of Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u235	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. I would like once again, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, to express my disappointment at such a law, over the content of the proposed law. See, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, is looking for the culprits for high inflation for encouraging vital needs in our country on the side of traders. Because it sounds nice when you put responsibility from your shoulders on someone else's shoulders. Traders are the main culprit for inflation in our country. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes to Parliament with a law written by the same people, the holders, the owners of capital. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Economy, clearly and loudly states in this law that the aim is to increase the competitiveness of traders, that the aim is also to increase the power of traders on the basis of the offer. The offer will expand. On the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia calls on citizens and citizens of our country not to spend spending on consumer-oriented companies, on the other hand, encouraging consumption. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and where is the law, which, once again, is written solely for the protection or benefit of capital owners, where is the interest and protection of workers in this law? The Minister of the Economy has only written down the possibility that minimum standards in the area of education for typical trade professions should be regulated in the sub-legislative act for the purpose of introducing a new law into the parliamentary procedure because of the previous veto vote, but we have not seen this sub-legislative act. Whether he will write in a submarital act that only primary education is enough, we do not know at this time. Is this the right protection of workers, traders, those who receive 400 or less euros a month's wages and work on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays? Dear colleagues and colleagues, such a law that does not protect workers in the unaffiliated members of Lip's Group, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that at this moment the only good that works in the field of trade activity, Mrs Breda Kutin, President of the Association of Trade Activities, is actually controlling large wholesalers in Slovenia. We, as has already been said in the position, do not oppose the novelties brought by the new law, but we will not support the law - not what is before us today, nor any novelty in the future, which will not contain the content that would reflect what has been voted on in the referendum, where citizens and citizens have made it clear that trade on Sundays and holidays should be closed. Since we have not done this in the past and not in all the changes in the laws that have been here so far in the National Assembly, it can only be one of the reminders to us that we do not know the great ones - those who can agree on prices that can be negotiated in cartel - we do not know how to cut their wings. That this is the case today, this is the result, at least as we believe in Nova Slovenije, of the fact that the legislator was unable to write into the law what was voted on in the referendum. As a result, today these wholesalers can imagine that they are all-powerful and, in view of the situation, we can only find that this situation has led, among other things, to an increase in prices in trade. We will not support the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We have concluded by explaining the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening an application in my own name. Who wants to sign up? Please. Mr. Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u239	Your Honors are here! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has informed us of three facts over the past three months. Many people in this country believed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Firstly, as an exclusive bearer of blame for the growing inflation of traders within our country due to aggregate supply and demand in the context of products offered to large masses of people. If that were the case, then the contents of this law would have been written differently. Then the law before us today would also carry the so-called inflation protector on the basis of salary payments. In view of the fact that Minister Bajuk, within the framework of his previous law, did not meet the criteria for this treatment, of course, the above-mentioned act, which is before us today, will bear in particular the so-called appreciation of work in the framework of trade activity. Why the appreciation of work or, in other words, lower wages for employees in the framework of the trade activity under the basis - because it destroys or eliminates the so-called compulsory level of knowledge to carry out this profession. According to my own assessment, not least after the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, this is the case, but especially during this period for an extremely incomplete law that will go to the detriment of existing workers or employees in the course of trade activities, and this law will also contribute to price dispersion, including products and in the form of employee payments. What does this mean for the balance of prices, supply and demand and, finally, for the inflation spiral, we know. It would make sense for us to withdraw or reject that law from the procedure and to really prepare a quality law for the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're voting. 72 Members and Members voted for 45, against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour and 57 in favour against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Mr. Tanko, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u243	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I predict that we will table an amendment for the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the proposal that the third hearing be held at this meeting. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour, and 63 votes in favour against 3. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday 29 February 2008, following a final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. The amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law, as proposed by Mr Tanko. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the winnings of classical gambling in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour, 70 in favour, and 65 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the Group of Members, explanations. Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u247	Thank you very much. In the framework of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, we are pursuing one and the basic objective, that is to allow all mandatory members to make a decision so far. The decision whether or not the mandatory members will continue or be voluntary members. Within the framework of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, we believe, on the one hand, in farmers and on the other, in the framework of or in the owners of forestry land, that they are able to decide for themselves, without the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the ruling majority, whether their interest or their interest is not to be members of the said Chamber. Membership in itself is not as bad as paying a membership fee for this institution. According to the firm belief of the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Lipa, the institution referred to in the first and only terms or primary tasks is concerned about its own promotion, which means that it does not operate on the market. Slovenia has come into the development of events and in the course of moments, which closes a period of time and, in our conviction, we also need to be credible enough to enable people to make their own decisions. Thus, the law follows a change only in the part that speaks, if Slovenia is in a market economy, then the market institutions should also behave marketably. If these institutions pursue the interests of their members, then there is no fear that membership will decline, but the facts are different. This institution, i.e. the Chamber, collects the membership fee, the contribution in the form of a compulsory duty, and in return, the vast majority of its members do not have anything to do with it. A while ago, you also rejected the proposal for an economic chamber years ago, so that the voluntary membership system would collapse the so-called Chamber of Commerce. Later, a few years later, a few years after our firm conviction, you yourself came to this realization and it turned out that this is not the case. To the extent that individual institutions, in our case of chambers, carry out tasks as necessary, then they shall not be afraid for their members. That membership is abandoned by those who have nothing from the institutions mentioned. So, in the context of the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Lipa, this time we offer you a law that builds and builds a chamber on the ability of each individual member to make a good decision within our country. Let us allow them to make this decision and respect their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u248	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 9. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the electoral law in the National Assembly is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 31. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that this decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the electoral law of the President of the Republic, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the electoral law of the President of the Republic is not suitable for further consideration. We vote, the vote is on. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 32. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on trespasses. Decision on amendments under the ordinary procedure. At its 32nd meeting, the National Assembly held a debate on the amendments tabled, so we are continuing with a second reading of the draft law, by deciding on the amendments tabled, on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.10.2007. In this regard, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the forecast of the second reading of the draft law, which was adopted on 24 October 2007, this agenda item is being obstructed by the following groups: LDS, Zares and SNS. Mr. Miran Potch, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I have, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues of the proposal, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Social Democrats proposes that we postpone the decision on amendments in the second reading to one of the following meetings. We have already proposed, at the time of the forecast agenda, that we do not deal with this law today. We re-examined the amendments, the amendments are 16 to 11. They are, in our opinion, important issues. If the coalition is serious about working on provincial legislation in a coherent and coordinated manner, not individually on each law, then such a decision cannot be useful for achieving the final objective. Such a decision only means that on the last day you may show some kind of kindness in the coalition, but you are not prepared for a serious joint discussion that would tell you about differences in the substantive issues and differences in the methodology of how to get to the content, to make a common agreement. You prefer to accuse us, you prefer to collect signatures, you prefer to talk about who is in favour or against regionalisation of Slovenia. Please believe such threats will not scare us, we want a fair deal, not the method you've collected so far. I therefore propose that we postpone today's decision to create the basis for an agreement on how to proceed with provincial legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I would like to ask if any of the members of the group would like to express their opinion on the proposal, in view of the opinion of the Group of Members? Yeah. Mr Sašo Pece, on behalf of the Group of Members, on the proposal of Mr Porč.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I would like to make a procedural call, by taking note of the esteemed National Assembly, so that, within the framework of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will obstruct the amendment for the following reason. We do not believe in the plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which burned down in the National Assembly less than a month ago with its proposal for 14 provinces, and announced a retrial of 14 provinces within a week. In the meantime, the President of the Government and the Minister for Regional Development said that a consensus was being sought within the political parties. What a consensus one is looking for if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes up with the same proposal again, just as a number of proposals have been made in the context of its first mountain plot on the establishment of the provinces! In the Lipa Group of Members of this title, we also come from content within the framework of the Landscapes Act. The fact is that "per partes" deals with individual provincial laws, which are not linked to the number of provinces, is inappropriate. Unfortunately, from this title, parliamentary practice has taught us that many times a positive content or positive standard is achieved through obstruction. I sincerely hope that the rest of the obstruction will also be joined, by Members and Members or, rather, by the institutions of the parliamentary groups, thereby impeding this kind of government, on the one hand, to either comedy or rather tragic comedy. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, I must also warn you this time, all those Members and Members who have not received gifts from the leaders of the groups of Members, that in the debate in the framework of the parliamentary debate we have both the Law establishing the provinces, which would allow only six provinces. According to our firm belief, the number of provinces must be first determined, and funding and liabilities should be first determined, i.e. in the secondary phase. But given that we have not all found so much wisdom together as to agree on the number of landscapes and then on their content, depending on the number of landscapes, I would stress once again that it would make sense that: either the National Assembly would prevent the adoption of that law today and here, and that it is meeting with the first substantive issue, that is, how many provinces we need in our country of the Republic of Slovenia. From this place, as I said, we will give the Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, in the context of the votes of their card out and, please, if you understand this as obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I see this as obstruction, too, in addition to the announced obstruction to this point of LDS, Reallys and SNS, as I read earlier. With regard to the proposal of the SD Group of Members, I am opening an application for an opinion on their proposal. Opinion of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Here you go, please. Mr Franz Pukšič on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The Slovenian Democratic Party has always been for coherent regional development, it has always been for the country to have at least approximately equal conditions in the start and therefore the Slovenian Democratic Party has always supported all such laws that have contributed to better coherent development and better quality of life for citizens and citizens. Thus, in her history, she endeavored to establish congregations, which proved to be really good or, in our belief, even for independent Slovenia, the best thing since the adoption of legislation. But it was only one level. We have now come to a different level, where it is imperative to establish landscapes and by establishing landscapes to begin to reduce such a backlog for more developed parts and to establish significantly better economic conditions for consistent equitable development in this country. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party will oppose or support such a proposal from the United Nations and given that we have taken all the opposition's wishes into account in the procedure, it is time to bring individual legislation to an end. It is also clear from the Second reading draft law that only some political parties have taken the legislation seriously, as some have also drafted amendments and some of these amendments that improve this legislation, that the Slovenian Democratic Party will also support and give, in particular, to those opposition political parties the starting point which they have already announced in some articles, if they are supported, that is the basis for their adoption of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The second was reported by Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble. Mr Victory Jelinčič I must tell you this: I cannot give you my word unless you give up the obstruction you have foretold.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm giving up obstruction in three minutes. Otherwise, I must say that the proposal made by my colleague Potrč is extremely clever and would make sense to support it. In particular, I think it would make sense for the National Assembly to consider at least one amendment to Article 3, which states: "A province which includes municipalities in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live must have a bilingual name. Bilinguality in this province is also used meaningfully for the stamp and its own symbols." Which means if you vote this, the whole of Primorska will have the Italian name and the entire Prekmurje Hungarian name. Thank you very much. Now I'm going back to obstruction. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u256	Thank you very much. You took two minutes and seven seconds. Now I think you're in obstruction again. Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our Group is inclined to support the motion to postpone voting, especially if this is the basis and basis for reaching a broader agreement on the adoption of this law, because we know that in the end it will be necessary to have two-thirds in this area if we want this matter to work. If there is no agreement, the coalition can still vote on the law itself, but it does not fully resolve the problem, and from this point of view, I am inclined to give the minister and all those who do not support this proposal to be properly negotiated by the next vote and thus overcome, I would say, disagreements and disagreements on the final solution. So we will vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u258	Thank you very much. This means that we can move to a vote on the procedural proposal tabled by Comrade Potrč. So, you vote. 54 Members and Members present voted in favour of the proposal against 15, 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the colleague's proposal to move the point to one of the future meetings has not been adopted. My friend Run, procedurally? Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the National Assembly that, in the Group of Social Democrats, we understand the negotiations significantly differently than Mr Puksic and Democrats. It is for us to agree to sit at the common table, to open the questions and try to agree on them, not to share the crumbs, and to take offense. As a result, we will not participate in such an assembly at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The National Assembly has taken your decision. However, we are moving on or you are moving on to a decision on the amendments, first of all to a decision on the amendment to the 3rd member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. You're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present, which does not allow for a valid conclusion on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We will repeat the vote. We'll vote next time. There were 46 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 42. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You decide on the amendment to Article 11 of the Resais Group. In doing so, I remind you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities becomes irrelevant. You're voting. There were 46 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 42. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to the same Article 11. You're voting. There were 46 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 41. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You are moving on to Article 12, to decide on the amendment of the Zares Group. You're voting. There are 45 Members and Members present, which does not allow for a valid decision, so you will repeat the vote. You're voting. There were 46 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 41. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Zares Group to Article 13. You're voting. There are 45 Members and Members present, which does not allow for a valid vote, so you will repeat the vote. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And you decide on the second amendment to Article 13. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, no one voted in favour, against 41. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the Zares Group to Article 13. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, no one voted in favour, against 41. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And you are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Zares Group to Article 14. I would like to inform you that the amendment is linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 66. In the event that the amendment to Article 14 is not adopted, the amendment to Article 66 becomes irrelevant. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 12, against 49. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It thus became an amendment to Article 66 without subject. You decide on the second amendment of Article 14 of the Group of Ambassadors. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. You decide on the amendment of Article 16 of the Delegation Group. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. No one voted against 41. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You decide on the amendment of Article 19 of the Group of Ambassadors. I am pleased to inform you that the amendment is linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 25. If the amendment to this, i.e. Article 19, is not adopted, the amendment to Article 25 becomes irrelevant. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 6. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus has also become an amendment to Article 25. You are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to Article 22. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1 to 40. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 25, which has become subject to the adoption of the amendment by Article 19. You're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present for 35 votes against 6. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. You are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to Article 58. You're voting. There were 46 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 41. [[For no one.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. You are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to Article 58. You're voting. There were 46 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 41. [[For no one.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Comrade Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u261	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I propose that the third hearing be held at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Since the 66th vote is still pending, I apologize for my mistake, so we need to close the second hearing. If the proposed material does not submit a proposal for a hearing to be carried out, we will end with today's meeting and other hearings in one way or another. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, and I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. Or a representative of the government, he is not proposing anything, which means that we have remained at this point, which is also a substantive fulfillment of your procedural proposal, which I cannot put to the vote. I conclude the item and hereby terminate the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening ahead. Good luck.
