ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Miran Gumzar and Mr Bogdan Barovic. I invited Mr Borut Pahor, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, and the candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the 2nd item of the agenda, Mr Anton Gasper Frantar, President of the State Election Commission, on the 1st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 20 November 2008. I have not received any proposals for withdrawing the item or extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. Please check the voting devices again. [[It's not working.]] Let's recheck. I'm taking a five-minute break to get the techs to check the voting devices. Meet me at 10.06. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u2	We continue with the adjourned session. We are voting on the agenda. I hope the voting devices are okay and working. We're moving to the vote. As I have already mentioned, Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the operation of the devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. This is for the candidate, who will be in line with 14. By a member of the law on missions, he performed the function of a messenger instead of a messenger who took over the government's function. Since Mr Borut Pahori’s election to the Prime Minister of the Government ended his term of office, the State Election Commission forwarded to the Assembly the conclusion that Mr Borut Pahor’s term of office had passed on to Mr Marjan Križman. The findings were addressed by the Commission’s mandate, which also reported in writing to the assembly. Does anyone want a word about this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. As long as Member Borut Pahor serves as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, he is unable to act as a Member and is therefore acting in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act as of today, Marjan Križman, born 15. 8. 1953, residing at 22 Chevariska Street, Koper. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I invite Mr Marjan Krizman's fellow Member to join us and take over his seat. I wish my colleague Križman to perform the work of a Member successfully in the parliamentary benches. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - This is for discussion and decision on the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of ministers of the Government. He presented the list of candidates for ministers to the President of the National Assembly on 13 November 2008. The President of the Government therefore proposes to appoint Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac as Minister of Environment and Space, Mag. Mr Mitjo Gaspari, Minister of State for Development and European Affairs, Mr Gregor Golobic, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Ljubico Jelusic, Minister of Defence, Mrs Katarino Kresal, Minister of Home Affairs, Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, Dr. Matey Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, Dr. Igor Luksic, Minister of Education and Sport, Mr. Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, Mrs. Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Use, mag. Zlato Plosteiner for Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Ivan Svetlik for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Majdo Širca Ravnikar for Minister of Culture, Dr Patrick Vlačič for Minister of Transport, Mr Aleš Zalar for Minister of Justice, Mr Samuel Žbogar for Minister of Foreign Affairs and Dr Boštjan Žekš for Minister of without department responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, to further explain the proposal for appointments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u3	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! I decided that in my short time before and after your appearance, I would not read the speech, but I would give nine, ten clear messages to the National Assembly on my intentions regarding the conduct of the government if you confirm it today. So let's do it in a row. The first message is that we need each other. We need each other because Slovenian politics, not the government, must all play a role in the time ahead of us as a representative. Let there be no misunderstandings. As President of the Government, I do not expect this to mean the same burden-sharing between the Government and the opposition. Absolutely not. The government is the one responsible, the government is the one asking the opposition for cooperation and understanding, and the government is the one who needs to be aware that the opposition can and must cooperate in this dialogue with a different view from itss. That is why I also decided to change the position I proposed to the National Assembly 14 days ago at my inauguration, when I said that 100 days is too much for the opposition to have, say, a more moderate or more understanding attitude towards the government's conduct. We can't afford this luxury for one day. When, today, if the government is, we want a critical, controversial, urban dialogue to be likely, but a dialogue that has its own purpose, which has its own rations, to bring compromises to the compromises that will lead this country forward. It is said that after Saturday, if you decide that it is appropriate to lead the country, I say that the Government will meet at its first meeting, and from the first session forward it expects, it wants a critical view of what its actions or intentions are. The government is responsible, first and foremost, with the responsibilities it has, especially in the times we are heading towards, against times of uncertainty, for some atmosphere of consensus. As I said before, it seems to me that now Slovenian politics - not only has the opportunity, but also the responsibility to play its part as a representative. And I repeat that, of course, in this policy, the government has a responsibility, which it fully assumes, I, too, have an objective responsibility for its conduct and the conduct of its ministers, that we do not run away from this responsibility and take over from it. By the way, in this hall, which was 18 years ago different than it was today, this hall was adopted by the then Buchar Congregation by the Law on plebiscite. The plebiscite law was passed in 1990. It was proposed by Demos' government. What was important to the fact that it was adopted and then plebiscite succeeded and that we became a state of our own, six months later, the fact that Demos was then a opposition on the one hand, and on the other, capable of forming a consensus on fundamental national interests. Those of you who were Members in the first reference here see some familiar faces, not much, remember that there have been many things happening in this congregation that we can now view as funny or comic or whatever you want. What makes Demos’s government and then Buchar’s congregation, and also the opposition of some historical one, I will say, is responsibility and we must be grateful to her, however, that she was able to separate the grain from the weeds all the time. There have been many things going on here that have been threatening to make one or the other statement, one or the other, lead to the absence of plebiscite. And yet we all knew what was important. And we were able to focus on the essentials. At that time, Slovenia overcame all the problems, became an independent state, became a member of NATO, became a member of the European Union, successfully led the European Union, became a member of the euro area, moved the Schengen borders to its eastern borders, because we Slovenians always knew in the most important historical circumstances what our national interest was and we stood together. Also because we knew that many times in our conduct we could not rely on the prescriptions or instructions of others, we acted as a resourceful society, as an original society, rely on ourselves and succeed. I think we have enough knowledge, enough power and, as I said, enough experience to use this difficult period ahead of us to make use of this knowledge, this experience, this creativity, this unrest that is ahead of us, to create the necessary atmosphere in which people will see the time ahead of us as a time of hope and not as a time of fear. People are all that apart from the beauty of the country, besides its geopolitical position Slovenia has. And there aren't many of us. If we know how to connect these people into one community, and we need one tolerance and compromise, then I think we will succeed. Let me repeat once again what I said at the inauguration a favourable situation, and this is a slightly different situation from the one that Demos took over in 1990, the fact that the outgoing government is not responsible for the situation we are going into. We all know that this is caused by circumstances that we have not been able to influence, and this puts us at risk in this mandate to fight with each other, who is to blame and who is not. The situation in the world is what it is. We must accept it as a challenge and play our part as a representative and play it in line with their expectations for the people who entrusted us with the mandate, one in one, the other in the other. Secondly, secondly, it is essential for policy to be able to prioritize. What is the priority of the Government, which, if so decided today, will be given the responsibility to lead the country in accordance with its powers? Our key objective is, in particular in the first year, which will be the most difficult, to fully focus our powers on overcoming the obstacles that the financial and economic crisis brings with it in the world, so that we will overcome these obstacles through development policy and come out of this uncertain time with a more competitive economy and a more solidarity society. So, overcoming the recession is the key responsibility of this government. They will be primarily responsible for it: Minister of Finance, Minister of Economic Affairs, Minister of Labour, Social and Family Affairs, Minister of Development and Minister of Science, Higher Education and Technology, two advisors who have agreed to work with the government, Dr Mojimir Mrak, who will be responsible as adviser to international finance, and Mrs Lidija Apohal, who will help me understand the problems and solutions related to social policy. In order to avoid misunderstandings, all other projects will, of course, be launched. If the government has announced a health reform, then it cannot wait for the recession to pass, but on the contrary, it must use the time of recession to tell the health system that our intention is to bring it into a situation where its services are equally accessible and equally quality for all people in the public sector and we will let it develop privately, this is normal, as in other countries. But first it'll be necessary to move the room first. All the other projects will run simultaneously, the provinces, all the other things I spoke about the last time I presented myself as a candidate for Prime Minister. But as it is said, the message is that we will focus on solving the financial and economic crisis, and what is essential is that we face this ambition, that we overcome this crisis with development policy, not with some passive policy, although there should be no doubt in people, we understand that people are already in distress, that some in distress will be even more, and that we need political sensitivity to these pressures. I would, however, like to repeat briefly a few measures that we intend to take on this challenging project. As I said, the development and modernisation of Slovenia is our challenge. As far as the economy is concerned, and only three areas I will touch, no other today, there will first and foremost be measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy and to improve quality development. We will deliberately promote economic growth by co-financing investments in technology parks, incubators, scientific and advisory work and, of course, education. We will do everything possible within the power of the government to create the conditions for productivity to increase and for businesses to be effective. We know that if we want to have one smart economic policy, and in particular the macroeconomic balance that is important for the stability of public finances, wages must be at least a percentage behind productivity. It is said that our focus on productivity growth is now crucial. We will try to do everything in our power to implement measures to improve the efficiency of the financial system, to finance, well, to co-finance or otherwise to help emerging and rapidly growing technological, advanced enterprises. Last time I told you, we have almost 100 or more thousand micro, small, medium-sized enterprises. This is the export part of the economy, some of them, our most vital, most healthy part of the economy. Be careful, exporters, especially those who export to the markets currently in crisis, in recession, have their first problems. But they don't have the biggest problems. If they have the conditions to overcome this crisis with a smart business policy, they will quickly get out of trouble. We're going to help them. We're going to help the healthy part of the economy. The problem is that we also have companies that do not have such development plans. And I need to be honest, if we assess, and not over the thumb and through the night, that some companies where we are concerned about the fate of the employees do not have a perspective, then we will not decide to prolong the agony of such companies in the framework of the powers of the Government, the directives of the European Union and so on, but we will simply find that we need to focus on strategies in the labour market and with the strategy of active employment policies on the fate of people, on the fate of those who will be forgiven. And help them learn more and reclassify them to jobs with higher added value. We will do everything we can to develop the financial mechanisms of the Bank's SID and to help those with large-scale ambitions to enter risk projects as well. But as has been said, among the hundreds of such projects, one is enough to pay off and cover the stakes in 99 others. We're going to encourage a new start to the so-called greenfield investment. We will join in the creation of a competitive tax and business environment. Here I would like to say that the government will be informed by tomorrow's meeting, if you confirm it today, of the proposals made by the government of Prime Minister Janša in the National Assembly to see how the Government responds to these two laws. Of course, they have fiscal effects. My knowledge is too small right now to be able to assess whether they are entirely appropriate or not, so those who have more knowledge and responsibility are called to do so. However, my political intention is that if these two marriages are essentially appropriate, we will support them. Corrections may be needed, and a few more discussions may be needed to reach consensus. I know what this means on the revenue side of the budget. That basically means a rebalancing. I know that on the expenditure side we probably cannot be indifferent, we will look at what measures this requires. However, I think that everything has to be done - and this was also the condition of Dr. Lakhovnik to accept an economic minister's candidacy to do everything we can to relieve the economy. As far as the area of public finances is concerned, this is the second thing, I would like to say that I am fully aware with my colleagues and colleagues that the responsible public finances are a condition for stable growth. As I said last time, we're going to enforce two fiscal rules, and I'm not going to explain them because I already did. We will establish an economic world. Yesterday at a business conference in Portorož, I told our economists that this would not be any lobby in the government, where they would receive internal information and then better manage their business. There will be invited all people, from everywhere, who have one ambition to help the government and the state and are willing to make their knowledge available to us together wisely and, I will say, generously, not pettyly, we will break through the crisis. In managing public expenditure and budgeting, we will apply a methodology to the objectives of the targeted budget. This means that we will have to have clear priorities, what we want to achieve and not impossible, it is not impossible for one consumer to increase spending significantly and that we will reduce spending considerably for some. I know this will lead to a terrible political debate here, which is not what we expect. That's got to be it. As the President of the National Assembly has said, only as long as there is a possibility of a different view can we make wise decisions. We will align budget planning with these priorities and try to reach consensus with you here in the National Assembly. As I said, a competitive tax environment is very important for development and also in some ways an instrument for the fair sharing of created ones. We can't divide any more than we create. We will correct, at least that is the intention, the general tax relief, to impose special housing allowances. What is important, I think that this was also the intention of the current government of Prime Minister Janša, to reinvest in additional incentives for tax measures, to encourage the reinvestment of capital gains. We will follow this philosophy. We will promote stability and supervision of financial markets. And let there be no doubt, I think the state can do more to deal with tax evasion. We will strengthen independent institutions and make the procurement process even more efficient and transparent. Some institutions that are now under the umbrella of the Government will be placed under the umbrella of the Bank of Slovenia if so decided by the National Assembly. And that is to strengthen their independence. Please, let no one in this Chamber understand this as an alibi, as an excuse for this to result in human resources changes at the top of these independent institutions. We will set up an agency for the supervision and regulation of the financial system. We will work through a stand-alone public agency and I think it is irrelevant, we will focus on quality and green public procurement, so that we will also have one of the pillars, as it is called, sustainable development. We have a whole range of knowledge and technology plans. I will now mention some of these; if I let any of them go, this should not be understood by the National Assembly as underestimated by one of the many measures written in the Coalition Treaty or which will be the subject of your initiatives and incentives in the debate. We will certainly do everything to strengthen the scientific and innovative development charge in order to create the conditions for excellence in higher education, scientific activities. We will strengthen the development of excellent universities, whether private or public, of course the attention of the state deserves public universities, other higher education institutions, we will assess the Bologna process, on the basis of evaluation we will complement it if necessary. As far as governments are concerned and their position is concerned, there is no schooling which could be an important social filter so that children of poorer parents do not receive the necessary education, even though they are as talented as children of richer families. We don't plan the introduction of tuition. Of course, we need a knowledge society and therefore raise the level of knowledge, resulting in the educational level of the entire population. Fourth message. As I said last time, I have in mind a particular institution that we have not known so far, this is a broad social dialogue that we would start as soon as possible, after the election of the Government. We will first have bilateral talks with the unions, with employers, with representatives of pensioners, young people, and my insistence is, although some have reservations, also with representatives of the agri-land chamber. I think that all of these must be called into dialogue, which must then continue until we all rightly consider that we have come out of the crisis. This social or development dialogue will take place at two levels. This is where I particularly turn to the opposition. In addition to social dialogue, I have a plan, so we have also talked with our colleagues to establish political dialogue. I've been thinking for a long time, not least, as you know, even with some of you, how to work out this idea that we need to work out together, give me a name. Today, for the purposes of this performance, I will simply say that we also need a new mandate, and immediately at the beginning of the "partnership for development". What it will look like, how we will deal with its functioning, what name we will give, this is all a matter of discussions with both the presidents and the president of the coalition parties and with the presidents of the opposition parties. But we will address this immediately, of course, with the opposition's readiness to do so. The fifth message concerns the thing that, as I see it, we are particularly expected by employers and, in a sense, by trade unions. The message is that a strong market needs a strong country. But not a country that will interfere with the business decisions of individual business entities. This is not our job, and we have no right to interfere. Our task is to create conditions in markets, capital markets, labour markets and other markets that will be transparent, where the rules will be clear and allow for an active role of the country as a partner in achieving common ambitions. And this is that we protect the economy as the backbone of our development from, I'll say, the reptiles of the crisis coming to us, and allow it to penetrate through it, so that it eventually becomes even stronger. There's something I'd like to say about the independence of regulators. Since I have heard that there is something saying in the hallways of this tall house, and there is a question about my meeting with Mr Sorsak, I hope that Mr Sorsak will not mind if I refer to our conversation on Tuesday, because I do not want my visit to him to be misunderstood. Of course, I asked him to see me on Tuesday, and I also called him. It was a short meeting. I told him that as far as I was concerned, I was with him three times: for the first time, for the last time, and never again. And that I have only two requests: first and last. My request is that, in the event of any harassment by the Government and its coalition parties or others that might be linked to the Government, he informs me immediately and I will take action. He's tied up in his work with his marriage, his conscience, and I asked him to do the job. To be completely honest with you about the conversation that lasted, I think four minutes, he had one request, too. He said he heard that the Government would introduce austerity measures; I would talk about it later; and he told me that he was asking me as Prime Minister of the Government to provide the Ombudsman, as an independent institution, with the necessary money to get an opinion, to get legal and other institutions, because this guardian is facing companies that are thorny in the heel that have lawyers who can pay very dearly. My promise was that he'd get that money, too. I told him, of course, that like others, he can photocopy some paper less, that in a household way he saves something, but not when it comes to his professional obligations. So much so there won't be any misunderstandings. Six messages. The most important solutions that we must take for our ambitions will be adopted here in the National Assembly. I may not be the Prime Minister of the Government's entire mandate, and it will be up to you to decide, but as long as I am the President of this government, it may be possible for me to be among all of them, even because of the circumstances that we are witnessing to them, perhaps as much time as possible in the National Assembly. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance warned me a few days ago that although it was "fine" that the Government had adopted the two draft laws drafted by the previous or current government, which we have co-formed, it is equally important, in his view, what would be the sub-legislative acts of these two laws. Last time he discussed this here, he was also a colleague of Jelinčič. Be careful, there's always a risk of him being right. Just because I don't agree with him in principle doesn't mean I have to reject every warning he gives. So, we will make one extraordinary, President of the National Assembly, if you will be so kind, please find some legal basis for us to come to the competent Finance Committee by means of sub-legal acts. Of course, responsibility is on the government's side. The government will take responsibility for any solution. We do not want to burden the Government of Responsibility, but we want the opposition and, of course, the professional public as discreet as possible, because this is a regulation that will have an important impact on how we will deal with billions of budget money, which we have finally committed to ourselves. And we'll try to get an opinion. And when we are convinced that we have regulated the two laws by means of law, so that they are transparent, that the rules are clear, that no one will use them for the purposes of their own pocket, then we will also accept these things in the government. It'll take a little longer, a little more patience, but I think it's worth it, because this is about big money and we're all sure they'll come into the right hands. We will also go to pre-parliamentary discussions in the National Assembly on other matters. I think it's right for us to fight here. I do not expect these debates to be to praise the Government out loud. On the contrary. I think that this is a time when those who have a different opinion, not only in the opposition, I think that one of the colleagues on our side, by the coalition parties, could speak of voting against if he disagrees with the Government, which is normal and normal, to vote in his conscience. Let us all express our views and suggestions and let the government listen and respect them. Look, I'm not talking about the government coming here with solutions, and if the opposition doesn't agree with them, they won't accept them. Sometimes we will just judge that our views are correct, and despite some of the opposition's concerns and objections, we will accept them and therefore take our responsibility. We will also work with non-governmental organisations more significantly than usual in previous mandates. I have decided that one of the State Secretaries in my office would be particularly competent to cooperate with non-governmental organisations. I think these NGOs have a lot to say, and it's only right that we listen to them. As far as the team that's proposed is concerned, that's point 7. As for the team that is proposed, I would not stand for it in its entirety today if I did not think that it was capable of each minister or minister taking responsibility in his own department and working together as a team. I would like to remind this high house that I propose 7 non-party candidates, that I also propose 5 women, and that perhaps for the first time in the history of Slovenia, at the head of the interior ministry and at the head of the defence ministry, a woman. But I don't suggest them there because they're women, because they're capable. I know there will be some concerns about this team in the debate. This is perfectly normal, but who expects those who are not responsible for the government to welcome such a team. But as I will say in the discussion below, I will also tell you the reasons why some of the assessments on candidates' inappropriateness do not seem accurate. Point 8. If, of course, you decide today that the Government is appropriate, we will meet at a meeting tomorrow. I told my colleagues and colleagues that until we did - and on that condition they too had to reconsider their consent to participate in the government - until we solve the main problems next year, we will work hard and sleep a little. I say this because I expect a lot of them to give up, without this denial, which also means that we will be able to carry out our personal careers, our political careers, the fate of our customers absolutely subordinated to the part of the Government that without such understanding as a team we cannot carry out things as it is in the interests of the entire community, on whose behalf the Government also decides. Nine. In his work, the government must act as an example in these circumstances. We will give up all comfort and comfort that is not essential to the professional work of the Government and also to the work of people paid from the State budget by taxpayers, and many of them will live worse next year than they deserve. Remember that a few days ago - perhaps it was like an illustration - at the Congress Hill there was a hearing of three directors of Detroit car companies who asked the US administration to give them $25 billion to prevent their potential economic break with this financial injection, which would mean a hole of $125 billion and a possible loss of 3 million jobs. Today the U.S. government rejected their request. On the other hand, you have the decision of the German government and Chancellor Merklov to support, on the contrary, requests, such as the Opel factory, and, in fact, with state aid, if I say so superficially, to help Opla get through the economic crisis. Another illustration of how governments react differently, with different prescriptions for economic conditions and that we cannot wait for these recipes from abroad, but we have to decide for ourselves what is good for Slovenia. But I mention this hiring for some other reason, because if I call by the example of the government, then I must probably give some personal example of myself to act in these situations. Now Presidents Wagoner and Nardelli, President General Motors and Chrysler, have said that they are prepared in these circumstances, until they draw both companies out of trouble, to work for one dollar a month if the US government decides to help these three companies. I'd like to tell you what my decision was. I've decided to pay out of my pocket all the national team. That's what I've done in the last 14 days. Apart from a kind invitation to the high representatives of the current authorities, where we, of course, had a working meeting and had a cup of coffee, I think one water and one lunch, very cheap but kind, I did not burden the state budget in these 14 days. All that it took to talk to the right people, not only to our own, but also to the outsiders, was settled out of my pocket. And my commitment is to be like many Slovenian people, be careful, like many Slovenian people in the coming situation next year I will probably live more or less than my savings. These are not small, they are both on the website of me and the competent authorities, and people can look at them because that is how many of our people will live next year. Ten years. There will be no human resources tsunami. I've already said that, and I have to say it again. I know that the opposition will raise its voice also because of things that are not justified. But that's actually good. In fact, it is good to trigger an alarm every time someone thinks that there has been an unjustified resolution of someone who is capable and even assumes that this has occurred for ideological or political reasons. I would like to tell you that no such decision has been made so far. And as far as I'm concerned, I'll make sure it doesn't happen in the future. I have informed, through a hearing by the candidate for justice, that I have no intention of replacing the Attorney General until the end of the term of office. What I expect her to do is do her job. If something is needed by the Government to enable it to perform this business, let us know and we will grant this request. I would also like to take this opportunity to call on all those who, for the money of taxpayers and in some way on behalf of the State or for the sake of the State's share in putting them on the job, I call upon all those who are thus paid with State money to continue their work, to carry out their work seriously, to do it honestly and to warn me, if at any time, rightly, in their opinion, the subject of any fear of being bullied because of their political or visual definition. I promise you the division of yours and ours is out of the question. If we have to share in these difficult times, we will share between the capable and the incompetent. Article 11 - My time is slowly running out as regards the introduction - emphasis on the institutions of the rule of law. To avoid any misunderstandings, this government will do everything in its power to strengthen institutions fighting economic and other forms of organised crime. The Internal Minister will, inter alia, finally assess what is good about the choice between the financial police and the strengthened Office to combat organised and, in particular, economic crime, to submit an elaborate to the Government and a proposal for a decision in this regard. This decision will be discussed here earlier. Even until this decision has fallen, I would like to inform those who are now responsible in internal matters for this work to continue their work, and that there is no talk of policy being involved in any way in their decisions. Before I conclude, I would like to say one or two words about foreign policy, but only briefly. For the last time, I have honestly told this High Council that I would be asked to understand when it comes to foreign and security policy issues, that before the matter came before the National Assembly, which, of course, lays down guidelines, I would like to consult with the presidents of the opposition parties before this matter came into public discussion. Also, with regard to some of the challenges we face now, let me do so. I do not think it is good that the President of the Government here, behind the speech stage, would bid on certain decisions that may or may not be taken by the Government in the coming months and are sensitive to the protection or exercise of our national interests. I have said that in these two months, Prime Minister Janša's government has been more or less coordinated on two things. As regards the financial crisis and foreign policy. I said that I support the decision taken by this government on the protection of our interests in Croatia's negotiations with the European Union, that this decision seems correct to me and that we will continue to do so as a neighbour, as a friendly country, as a member of the European Union, so that Croatia continues its discussions with the European Union, but Croatia must understand that it cannot do so at the expense of our national interests. Only if we get clear assurances that the documents submitted to the European Commission as documents for opening chapters that are not yet open will they not prejudge the borders between the countries and that we will have a clear assurance that these documents are understood by the Council of the European Union and the European Commission, will we examine our decision to open the chapters ahead of us and the chapters that are before Croatia and the European Commission. On this occasion, I would just like to express my gratitude to the French Government or to its President, as the President of the European Union, who has, of course, accepted our emphasis at this time, that France, as President-in-Office of the European Commission, must be aware that the country is one of the 27 countries and they are also speaking on our behalf. And I can say with gratitude that in the last 14 days, we have been in one lively contact with these things and that they have taken into account some of our proposals for things to be done in an appropriate manner. I only have a few minutes left to finish this opening act. I promise I won't be long in the end if there's no need for that, and let me put it this way. As I said, there is no reason not to view the future with optimism. In this hall, which was, as it was said, slightly different from today, but in it, here in the same room 20 years ago, or 18 years ago, we started some decisions that significantly changed the national destiny. If we were then in a spasm, in a spasm of some prejudices, ideological barriers and so on, of course, each of them came on an arraigned day, but for the sake of one clarity of the government at that time and even the opposition went through them, we would not have achieved all that we can enjoy today. And today we would not be dealing with recession in such a way that everything depends more or less on our minds, but would depend on others. Now we're on our own. This is a great historic event; if we win then, we will win now. I just wish, each of us had a dream, but we didn't say a word about them, I wish that as soon as possible next year we could stand before the National Assembly and say, if we could then quote the great statesman with cigar and whiskey, the great statesman Churchill, when he criticises the opposition that it's very difficult, that's impossible, and so on, he said that they're wrong because it's even harder. But only a few days later, after some events in 1943, who turned the fate of World War II, came before them and said, "This is not the end, this is not the beginning of the end, but the end of the beginning!" And from here on out, we're only going to win. I wish I could come to the National Assembly as soon as possible next year, and that our Christmas wishes might be a little different from what we will call for on the eve of New Year's Eve this year. In 1990 we were not in historical delay and we must not be in historical delay. I think that Slovenia can come out of this challenge, as I said, as a winner. And once again, let me finish with the words I said the last time, and they're a guide and a kind of inspiration today. We, as politicians, no matter what role we have, as individuals, cannot do anything about the circumstances ahead of us. But together, I think we can do anything. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u4	In accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by members and members of the committees and the Commission. It follows from the reports of the competent working bodies that the presentations of all candidates and candidates were appropriate. You have received reports from competent working bodies with opinions. The report of the Committee on Environment and Space will be presented by Mrs Breda Pecan, President. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u5	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon to the President of the Government, good afternoon to colleagues and candidates for ministers and ministers who are present in the Chamber and who are accompanying the meeting! On Wednesday, the Committee on Environment and Space presented Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac as the candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec presented himself and answered the questions of the members of the committee. In his opening presentation, Mr Karl Erjavec, as a candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space, stressed that climate change is one of the main challenges facing the modern world, followed by environmental protection and conservation. He stressed that it was not only one country but also the responsibility of each individual. In Slovenia, therefore, special attention will be paid to climate change issues in the next mandate and also to all of the following. In the area of climate change management, the aim of Slovenia should be to reduce energy consumption and increase the share of renewable energy use, in particular waste wood biomass, solar and wind energy, although it believes that wind energy in Slovenia is limited. He further presented the climate energy package, which started during our Presidency of the Council of the European Union and then went on to solve the problem of greenhouse gas emissions reduction. He also mentioned the proposal for a directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide, which could also mean a new development potential for Slovenia. In the field of water management, the candidate will pay particular attention to the conservation and quality of water and sea, in particular to ensuring quality drinking water for the supply of the population. In particular, it will be important to ensure flood safety, as climate change increases the circulatory character of our rivers and thus increases the flood threat. In ensuring the quality of the environment, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec informed Committee members that Slovenia had not yet prepared air improvement programmes and an area where the concentration of dust particles below 10 was exceeded in the air. He also assured us that the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of the Natura 2000 area will be an important objective that the Ministry will pursue primarily by issuing environmental protection conditions for individual interventions. In the area of spatial planning and use of space, the candidate will support the rational use of space and will therefore support building in existing settlements by generating and upgrading. It does not intend to take immediate action in its mandate to amend spatial legislation, but it intends to wait for the experience and possible negative effects identified. At the conclusion of the presentation, he presented his view on housing policy, with which more attention should be paid to the construction of non-profit rental apartments by means of housing funds, both municipal and republican funds. The members of the committee asked the proposed candidate a number of questions relating mainly to the provisions of the Spatial Planning Act, to the issue of limited possibilities for interference with Slovenia's space and development, and thus to Slovenia's uneven development as a result of the protection of the Natura 2000 area. They drew attention to the improved involvement of the headquarters in the preparation of national location plans, the acceleration of the preparation of state spatial plans and even a number of other spatial issues. He was asked how he intended to solve the problems of waste management, and the emphasis was also on renewable energy. The proposed candidate has responded to the questions raised by the members of the committee and has informed them of his views and views on how he intends to approach individual issues. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted an opinion with 10 votes and 6 against: The presentation by Karl Viktor Erjavac, a university graduate lawyer as a candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union will be transmitted by the President, Mrs Darja Lovtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u7	A well-respected choir. Mag. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mitja Gaspari presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and the Committee on the Economy on 18 November this year. The proposed candidate for a minister first mentioned the main current challenges for the European Union, including in view of the financial crisis. He stressed that the emergence of this crisis would lead to changes in the European Union's development direction, as set out in the renewed Lisbon strategy and policies of the Member States. In this respect, Slovenia will also have to revalue the policy orientations we have so far, as found in the development strategies and measures adopted. At the same time, it highlighted the need to strengthen the coordination of European affairs and the drawing-up of European funds, when necessary, of appropriate policy changes. European cohesion funds will need to be used appropriately to achieve the key development objectives, in particular those enshrined in the Slovenian Development Strategy. Among the objectives of this strategy, it has put at the forefront the strengthening of knowledge and innovation, the development of infrastructure, the creation of new and better jobs and coherent territorial development. However, in order to achieve these objectives precisely on the basis of Structural Funds funds, the structure of their absorption will need to be adapted accordingly. In doing so, he highlighted the financing of measures of additional value for existing policies, the placement of management authorities at the level of three ministries - namely the Ministry of Economy, Environment and Space and Transport - and the strengthening of the preparation of major projects of national importance. The national coordination of the Lisbon Strategy will also need to be further strengthened in order to achieve its development objectives. In this regard, it also focused on the acceleration and conclusion of negotiations for entry into the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, namely the OECD. Like his second assignment, he's a magician. Gaspari highlighted the coordination of European affairs. In this way, Slovenia is also more likely to become a co-formor of the European Union's policy. In this respect, the Office of the Government for European Affairs is intended to provide a technical framework for the coordination of all sectoral ministries, so that the final position of the Republic of Slovenia is truly unique, in particular where we are dealing with matter covering several areas. The government will attach great importance to the European Union's affairs, in particular by working towards their maximum integration into national projects and government decisions. As an important factor in the coordination of European affairs, he also stressed the strengthening of cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly. From this point of view, he stressed the importance of greater openness to the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs. These should be open to the public in such a way as to enable public debate on these issues. Finally, the European Union is concerned with matters of a public nature. As a third task, the candidate for a minister highlighted financial levers to increase the competitiveness of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, he stressed in particular the strengthening of financial incentives and the integration of funds with the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. In this way, both individuals and businesses should be provided with public financial services in a more appropriate, transparent and efficient manner. At the end of the presentation, he's a magician. Gaspari said there are new challenges ahead of Slovenia, and the new government wants to strengthen development policies with new instruments. In the face of the decline in economic growth, great attention will be paid to solidarity and to addressing the causes of unacceptable fragmentation. On the basis of the baselines presented, Slovenia is expected to create a modern, economically successful, open and solidarity society based on knowledge and respect for environmental standards. Members and members of both committees asked him a number of questions. There is not enough time available to present them in more detail here. He's a magician. Gaspari answered all these questions, and apparently he was a magician. The Gaspari responses are convincing because, following his presentation, the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, with nine "for", five "against" and four "against" adopted the opinion separately: Introduction of mags. Mitja Gaspari as a candidate for a minister without a department responsible for development and European affairs was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development will be presented by the president of mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u9	Respectable. First of all, I am gathering a very nice greeting, and since we are today, for the first time, after working together, a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the entire Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. Mr Gregor Golobič, candidate for Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230, first and second paragraphs, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 19. 11. 2008 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. First, he made proposals for a number of legislative changes in this area, including the Higher Education Act and the Research and Development Act. The introduction underlines the emphasis that is measurable, namely that for science and technological development, investment in development will need to be increased by at least 0.1% to 0.3% of GDP per annum in terms of expenditure in 2008 in order to achieve the target of 1% of public funds and 3% of GDP of total public and private resources for this purpose in the financial year 2012. The introductory part was followed by a number of questions, some fifty of which were followed, and the answers would include the following: The Law on Universities, prepared by the Rector's Conference, will receive broader public debates, including whether universities should be excluded from the public servants' system. Incentives for the establishment of new universities are, in principle, difficult to oppose, and the issue of quality and monitoring of this quality will be crucial in decision-making. The Agency for the Quality of Higher Education is expected to assume the evaluation and accreditation powers of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. However, the competence of this agency and the competence of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education is announced by the candidate for a broad public debate in the context of the discussion of the Higher Education Act. When introducing a foreign language as a parallel language in educational programmes, the candidate stressed that this was linked to the issue of mobility and also announced the problem in public debate. In establishing higher education institutions in regional centres, it is necessary to listen to the needs of the economy, according to the candidate, but it points out that the quality of the studies and documents which arise on this basis should not be ignored. With regard to the NUK2 project or the National University Library, he said that this project could be implemented in 2009, but pointed out that only if the design is such as to justify this investment in terms of technological developments, since otherwise it predicts that this investment will have to be revised by means of a delay in construction; it only hopes that it will not be too long. With regard to scientific titles, which was also a particular question, the candidate said that the matter was formally settled, but due to the introduction of Bologna processes it was necessary to consider whether it was also appropriate. With regard to funding for higher education, he said, it predicted that they were defined in the resolution and were expected to amount to 1.4% of the social gross product under the OECD criteria in 2010. Only one question remained unanswered, the candidate said that the IAS, the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, does not know. You know this was established on the basis of a special law adopted in 2006 with the high consent of most parties. On the basis of all this presentation and the answers to the questions, the Committee adopted the opinion that Igor Golobič's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology was appropriate and adopted this decision by 10 votes to 6 with 6 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The report of the Defence Committee will be presented by President Jožef Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! On 17 November, Dr Ljubica Jelusič, proposed as Minister of Defence, presented herself to the members and members of the Defence Committee and answered their questions. The proposed candidate for Minister initially thanked her for the opportunity to open her vision and strategy for defence action to elected representatives of the people. When he speaks of the vision of the development of the defence system, he separates a personal and coalition vision of development. In the personal vision of candidate development, the candidate highlights respect for the expertise of all defence sector employees and also respect for all volunteers who are still supporting the defence system today. With his team, he wants to restore confidence in the professionalism of the system to the people working on the defence system. With regard to the coalition vision, the candidate stressed the need to adapt the defence system to a new situation when, due to the coming economic situation, we need to reduce defence spending. The coalition advocates a maximum of 1.5% of the gross domestic product for defence expenditure and structural transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the administrative department of the Ministry of Defence. The coalition advocates further strengthening the system of protection, rescue and assistance, as well as the continuation of professionalisation processes that have been initiated both within the Slovenian Armed Forces and in the wider defence sector. The candidate stresses the importance of strengthening patriotism, solidarity and volunteering in ensuring the security of this country. Some of us have warned her, however, that such an attitude towards patriotism as a commitment and value is not seen in the coalition agreement. In her presentation, she pointed out that she was not in favour of revolutionary changes, radical reorganisations and reforms and would therefore be based on thoughtful and gradual changes in the implementation of that vision. The Minister's candidate attaches great importance to parliamentary supervision and the direction of Parliament. The defense of the country is supra-sex, it's a cross-sectoral, it's a common thing of the whole country, no matter who we are. In her presentation, the candidate also mentioned the need to establish a comprehensive crisis management and management system, which stems from some restrictions on the traditional defence system. According to the candidate, a comprehensive system will also need to be established in the field of cooperation in international operations, in which only soldiers have long ceased to participate. The candidate notes that much remains to be done in strengthening the voluntary framework of the protection and rescue system. With regard to protection and rescue, she also stressed the strengthening of certain forms of integration and coordination between the protection and rescue system and the Slovenian Army, in particular in order to address some of the shortcomings seen in the past. In the field of international, civilian and military operations and in the field of international military and defence cooperation, we have a number of actions in which the candidate for the Defence Minister sees the source of our experience, the source of our knowledge, the source of our verification of our abilities. The candidate is of the opinion that at home we will never be able to check our people as well as we can in international operations. Appropriate efforts will have to be made to correct the impression that the Slovenian public is increasingly opposed to Slovenia's participation in peace operations. In the field of human resource management, the candidate highlighted the need for rationalisation. In the field of human resources policy, a long-term programme will be needed to reshape the staff structure. Let me say that in the final part, the candidate answered a number of questions raised by members of the committee regarding the candidate's vision. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Human resources and human resources policy at the Ministry of Defence, the candidate's vision of the possibility to develop military aviation and to strengthen the security of Slovenian airspace through the squadron of their own reaction aircraft, the understanding of the realization of quality security services for residents and residents as the starting point of coalition partners in the area of security and defence policy, the candidate's view of patriotism and domestic education as a value and part of the educational process in the military system [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And so on. [[...]] And let me say that in the end, the committee adopted the opinion that the presentation of Dr Ljubice Jelusic as a candidate for the Minister of Defence was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Internal Policy and Public Administration and Justice will be presented by the President, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Of course, I propose, Mr President, that you present all three presentations. You also have more time at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As has already been said, three candidates presented themselves to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, namely Ms Katarina Kresal, the candidate for Justice Minister, Mr Aleš Zalar, and Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs, the candidate for Public Administration. All three presentations took 11 hours and some time together, so I'll probably be able to do it in 15 minutes, and I'm a little bit of a risk not to say everything I want to say. And yet, I'm going in line. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate for Minister of the Interior presented to the members of the Committee the basic principles, starting points and objectives for her work, of course within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior. In the area of public security and the police, which was given the highest attention by the proposed candidate in relation to the scope of this service in the interior ministry, she highlighted seven key points, if I am going in a row. First of all: the fight against economic and financial crime, the establishment of independent police control, the establishment of professional and operational autonomous police, as stressed, the care for greater security in traffic, the efforts of the police to be open to the public, civil society and the local community, as well as the latest appropriate evaluation of police work and regulation, as she said, of police relations. In the area of the second segment, this is a segment of administrative and internal affairs, the proposed candidate highlighted efforts to ensure that the services offered by the administrative services in the field of internal affairs are accessible as quickly and as easily as possible. The members of the committee asked a number of questions below. I would not list the questions, but I will focus on the answers to these questions, because you will also be able to identify the questions through this. With regard to the questions raised, the Minister's candidate explained the following. She stressed that at the Ministry of the Interior they would immediately approach the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision adopted in 2003 in the so-called case deleted. She pointed out that, in her view, such an obligation to issue supplementary decisions was already based on a decision of the Constitutional Court. Regarding the fight against corruption and organised crime, she stressed that this is one of the key strategic objectives of the new government. Regarding the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Commission, she explained that this does not fall directly within its competence, but advocated the Commission's continued autonomous work. Regarding the issue of the departure of police officers, she explained that one of the priorities of the Ministry of Interior under its leadership would be to ensure adequate education and ensure adequate material conditions for police work. She further explained that she was in favour of setting up a special independent authority to oversee the work of the police. Regarding State border control, she agreed that it should be carried out as effectively as possible by police authorities. She also said that she would advocate for as effective and effective cooperation as possible between criminals and prosecutors. With regard to the continuation of the conduct of the anti-corruption and organised crime procedures already under way, she explained that the procedures under way should not be stopped but should continue as effectively as possible. Following the closing of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the committee adopted the following opinion with eleven votes and four against: "The presentation of the candidate, Mrs Katarina Kresal, as the candidate for the Minister of the Interior was appropriate." A candidate for the Minister of Justice has also been presented to the Committee. In its opening presentation to the members and members of the committee, the proposed candidate presented in more detail his vision of the functioning of the entire judicial system. The candidate also presented the objectives of judicial policy. First time. Improving the functioning of justice through the renewal and simplification of judicial and ex-judicial dispute resolution procedures; final implementation of the e-justice project already under way; continuation and upgrading of the Lukend project in order to resolve civil and labour disputes within six months of the filing of the action; ensuring the deterrence and punishment of perpetrators of crimes in shorter and renewed procedures by reclassifying Slovenia from the lowest number of prisoners to 100,000 in Europe; ensuring the competence and specialisation of prosecutors, judges, detection and prosecution of economic crime offences; ensuring fair justice, with a focus on assistance and protection of victims of criminal offences; and therapeutic justice, through special mechanisms for addressing victims of violence in the family, alcohol-dependent and juvenile delinquent persons and juvenile delinquency. Last but not least: provide advice and representation to everyone in judicial proceedings. He also presented the measures envisaged in specific areas. In this way, he presented the first envisaged measures in the criminal field, the next envisaged measures in the field of civil, economic and labour justice and the measures in the field of lawyering and the measures in the field of notariat, and also foresees that the reform towards the decommissioning of the Constitutional Court will continue. The candidate in this context foresees changes to the law or, in the case of consent, to the Constitution as well. Members and members of the committee asked the candidate a number of questions and concerns relating mainly to the impact of the candidate on the sentence, changes in the penal code, alternative dispute resolution, family courts, possible changes in the permanent term of judges, increased labour employed in Slovenian prisons, liability or irresponsibility of the judges for acquittals, improvement in judicial arrears, a monopoly in the area of notariat, the judiciary management, judicial salaries, envisaged changes in judicial legislation. Let me sum up the candidate's answers below. The reputable candidate for minister answered all the questions raised and highlighted the following in particular. With regard to the question of electronic communication to the President of the Court of Justice, the applicant explained that it was private correspondence and opposed the ruling itself, since he considers that the sentence further undermines the reputation of the judiciary in the country. It also explained in more detail the particulars in this correspondence. Thus, a statement on the unfavourable composition of the Constitutional Court should be made in the sense that, in the previous Constitutional Opinion of the Public Sector Salaries Act, a person who is today a constitutional judge participated in the proceedings. Thus, the question of its removal from further procedures was raised. As regards the proposed exacerbation in the activities of the Slovenian Judicial Society within the meaning of the sentence, he explained that it was not given within the meaning of the sentence, but rather a notification of the dispute to the International Court of Justice and the Council of Europe. He further answered questions about the weaknesses of the new penal code. In his opinion and assessment, they appear in the provisions on the expiry of offences, reduced limitation periods and numerous executions of sentences and the abolition of the foreigner's expulsion. He further answered the question about alternative dispute resolution procedures. Here, according to his assessment, it will have to be carefully linked to judicial proceedings. It also foresees the establishment of specialized family departments of district and higher courts. The permanent judicial mandate is based on his assessment of the independence of the judiciary. Problems in Slovenian prisons will be addressed in cooperation with the directors of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions and Prisons as representatives of the security union. The abolition of the judicial arrears will, in his opinion, be completed by the end of 2010. The candidate will also seek to end the sentence by the end of 2008. In the area of notariat, according to its assessment, competition is not too small. In the area of justice, the candidate would introduce management, because he believes that the judges are qualified for the trial and less for the administration. The question of court salaries is, in his opinion, a legal issue for which the Constitutional Court will raise the general criteria. Amendments to judicial legislation will be more prudent after its assurance in the coming term. Let me inform you that, following a presentation of 11 votes and 6 votes against, the Committee adopted the opinion: "The presentation of Aleš Zalar, the candidate for the Minister of Justice, was appropriate." The third candidate, who presented herself to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, was Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, a candidate for the Minister of Public Administration. The Minister's candidate began a large-scale presentation, in her introduction, with her personal presentation and briefed the members of the committee on the professional path on which, according to her assessment, she had gained sufficient knowledge, experience and competence in the field of public administration, on which she was to take the lead of the ministry. The candidate presented the tasks and objectives in the field of public administration and spoke extensively about: public administration as a quality and effective service to citizens, depoliticisation of public administration, modernisation of public services, the position of public servants and the public sector's pay system, regulation of the situation of non-governmental organisations, the constitutional and coherent electoral system and the referendum. In the course of the meeting, the candidate presented measures for self-restraint by the government that would have a significant impact on the design of uniform policies and on the legal security of citizens, highlighting: for the first time - cooperation with the public in the preparation of regulations, the ria method for assessing the effects of regulations, for the third time - transparent regulation, for the fourth time - simplification of legislation and for the fifth time - removal of administrative barriers. The members of the committee asked questions which the candidate for minister also answered. In its replies, I should point out the following: in addition to electronic commerce, it will also seek to simplify classical business procedures. In her opinion, public procurement is a major problem and, with a view to ensuring uniform practices, he is considering setting up a specific agency. On questions about the number of employees in public administration, she explained that it does not predict a reduction in the number of civil government officials because statistics and analyses of independent institutions show that we do not have too many employees in this part. The question of the quorum for the validity of the referendum, in her view, requires considerable reflection and discussion, but the introduction of quorums is important because it legitimizes the decision of the electorate and electorate. With regard to the adequacy of the public sector wage system, many questions have been raised in this area, which segments would have been agreed upon or intended to be excluded from the single state wage system - with regard to the adequacy of this system in the public sector, the applicant explained that without taking note of the report on the implementation of the public sector wage system, it cannot comment on the possible shortcomings of the system. It is aware, however, that public servants must be properly rewarded for their work. Furthermore, the candidate also spoke about whether she would conduct wage talks with various unions or would be left to individual ministers. Then she said she was going to leave it to individual ministers. Following the final presentation of the candidate's proposal, the committee adopted the following opinion with 12 votes in favour and 5 against: "The presentation of Irma Pavlinič Krebs, the candidate for the Minister of Public Administration, was appropriate." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will be presented by Vice-President Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with Articles 230 and 231 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted an opinion as a competent working body on the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Finance. Dr. Docent. Mr Križanič presented himself to the Committee at its meeting on 17 November 2008 and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. Following the opening presentation, the proposed candidate for a minister presented in more detail the movement of some economic indicators, as well as some of the key points set out in the agreed coalition agreement relating to public finances. In this context, he stressed that in the context of the financial crisis, the government will temporarily lead a somewhat more expansive, Keynesian, anti-recession policy by building some infrastructure facilities and accelerating economic growth without jeopardising the Maastricht criteria. He further pointed out the following. In the area of taxes, together with the development policy effects towards the expected increase in productivity, competitiveness and thus in GDP, a gradual increase in general tax relief is envisaged in the income to the annual amount of the minimum net wage. It is also envisaged to reintroduce a specific housing allowance for the payment of income. In the case of corporate income tax, a re-introduction of a reinvested profit benefit complemented by a metric is envisaged. The type of tax policy relief should also be granted to micro and small enterprises and the benefits will be based on the increased role of lump sums and interest payments. A change of budgetary planning is envisaged for the rounded programmes with defined objectives and the control of indicators to achieve these objectives, which will be carried out on the basis of the separation of programmes by ministries into fixed and flexible ones. The institutional structure of EU funding will be adapted to support the effective management of Slovenian development policy. There is a provision for unifying and enhancing the effectiveness of control over the functioning of the financial system. There is a different management strategy with State stakes in companies, given whether they are private companies operating in a competitive environment, companies operating in the field of infrastructure and natural monopolies, and companies operating in the financial sector. It is necessary to reshape Kad and to separate his individual funds. Simplification of procurement procedures is also needed. In the final part of his opening presentation, the minister's candidate stressed that the Ministry of Finance is waiting for a lot of work, as the financial crisis itself brings a number of tasks for this ministry and some needs to be implemented immediately. The opening statement concluded by finding that, with the rebalancing of the state budget, it is possible to act quickly enough to prevent the impact of the so-called second wave of the financial crisis, i.e. to reduce the volume of orders and the consequential impact on employment and the decline in living standards. According to the candidate, a relatively rapid exit from the financial crisis is possible, of course with the operational capacity of the Ministry of Action and with the constructive cooperation of Parliament. While the Minister's candidate was asked questions relating mainly to the envisaged action on the impact of the financial crisis on the financial and, in the second phase, the real sector, the presentation of concrete budgetary priorities and their planned funding, the candidate's announcements on the movement of certain macroeconomic indicators and individual development indicators during the period and until the end of the Government's mandate, and the question of a more effective use of European funds, the future relationship between budgetary, pension and health and property taxation. The proposed candidate for minister informed the Committee of his views, views and opinions, as well as of the proposals for action in specific areas of the Ministry of Finance's activities and the questions raised, according to the majority opinion of the Committee. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate for Minister, the Committee adopted an opinion with 4 votes against that the presentation was doc. Dr Franc Križanič as a candidate for the Minister of Finance is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy's report will be presented by the President, Mr Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Dr. Lahovnik, a professor of economics at the Faculty of Economics, presented himself to the Committee on Economics as a candidate for the Minister of Economy. His presentation was extensive in the introduction, it was also systematic and was based on the basic messages contained in the Coalition Treaty. He did this by first presenting his vision in a global context, narrowing it down to the European situation and, of course, touching the situation with us, in our economy and in our financial system. We can reiterate that he understood this as a crisis that has already taken place in many countries and stressed that this needs to be understood in an integrated way; that is, as a crisis in the financial sector, as a crisis in the real sector, as a major and possible negative impact on the labour market and social security. At the same time, he drew attention to the necessary environmental sustainability in the actions to resolve this crisis. When he stressed the characteristics of our situation, he had to mention that we are very much involved in the global market and that our main trading partners are already in the recession phase, which, of course, with some phase shift, will certainly prove to be ours. Some of the determinants of our situation are such that we have no influence on them. He also drew attention to many of the natures in which we could, either in the past or in the present, and which we will also have to influence in the future: this is certainly a problem of the slow restructuring of our economy; this is certainly a major problem in the area of current account deficit; this is certainly a major problem in debt and in large guarantees that we have - not only directly in the budget, but we have them. This is certainly a major problem of increasing labour costs that we are looking forward to following some of the reforms we have adopted in this mandate, and it has drawn attention to the problem of financial non-discipline and the problem of the grey market. This is what the Slovenian government intends to tackle with intervention measures; some of these measures have already been taken, some are being prepared, and more importantly, what will be the long-term policies in Slovenia, including, above all, the promotion of greater competitiveness, i.e. a better business environment. As an important development policy, the importance of restructuring energy, both renewable resources and the sixth block and the second block of nuclear power, has also been highlighted and has drawn attention to its position, which is not exactly the same as the coalition agreements on the need for a referendum. He also drew attention to other development policies, notably the need for better technological equipment for our production, after better links with science, with new researchers, etc. When he concluded with his opening presentation, Dr. Lahovnik received a number of questions to which he answered - those that were of a more systemic nature. And even those who were more empirical. He responded in such a way that he did not propose rapid and radical changes, replied that the proposed policies would be based first on analysis, assessment and forecasts of likely trends, and gave up the possibility of responding to purely specific local problems that he did not know. It is very important that his great willingness to engage in political, social and environmental dialogue has been presented. For example, it ensured that even if we have a negative electricity balance, it does not intend to impose, for example, the construction of hydrocentrals, i.e. renewable energy sources, for example in Mura, if this is not acceptable for the local population and the environment. Since his replies to the majority were acceptable and some were negative, the Committee took the view that his presentation from 10 to 4 was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth will be presented by the president of mag. Majda Potter. I propose that the President present both reports. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Like the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the candidate for Minister of Education and Sport and the candidate for Minister of Culture presented themselves to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth on Monday, 17 November. The proposed candidate for Minister, Prof. Igor Lukšič, presented himself first and introduced a three-and-a-half-hour presentation, which, for the most part, consisted of questions and answers from Members and Members. He put his presentation in 17 sets, which I will briefly mention. The language and methods of work need to be brought closer to the expectations and conditions of the spirit during youth. It is important that young people who are able to use technology begin a special process of individualisation. Human potential is the only strategic raw material, so no one should be deprived of the opportunity to make full use of their potential. It is the responsibility of the Minister, the Government and the National Assembly to create opportunities for all to develop their dreams and then realize them. The reproduction of the layers we have witnessed since independence is a particular problem, and therefore all children need to be included in the main basic processes, so that they can learn and develop the strength that is necessary so that today an individual can survive as autonomously as possible under the conditions of modern societies. The increased involvement of children in kindergartens and the gradual introduction of free kindergartens are one of the objectives in this area. At the level of primary and secondary schools, the key issue is autonomy and related competences and responsibilities for the realization of autonomy. At the level of the Ministry, the legal service will need to be strengthened and the executive mandate should be extended. Let the school process enable people to form in it who will have the most autonomous view of the world and will be well oriented in it. Good education should be carried out in close connection with education, and it is necessary to strengthen the links between parents and teachers, between teachers and students, between teachers, parents and the local community, and to make this association more effective in practice. Good school is a nice and challenging school - to students and to parents. The school process must run as qualitatively as possible, and this can be done by all those who can also create young people in the context of interesting activities. Retired teachers and teachers should also be attracted. External verification of knowledge over three years and methods of evaluation is not appropriate. That should be settled. There are too many subjects in primary and secondary schools, so it happens that colleges are mirrored according to their power in political space in primary and secondary schools. That's not good. In the case of textbooks and school aids, different interests cross and the relationship between students, teachers, professions, publishers and parents needs to be considered and a balance found between them. There must be as much involvement in international space as possible, and the exchange of primary schoolchildren and pupils should be encouraged and this recognition system should be abolished abroad. The pay system needs to be upgraded. There is a need to increase investment in education. Public school needs to be changed and complemented and opened to all ideas and alternatives. The adoption of the White Paper in the field of education is crucial. In most of the presentation, the applicant replied to questions from which agreement or disagreement with individual declarations could be understood. Finally, the Committee adopted an opinion with 14 votes in favour and 5 against the fact that the presentation of Prof. Dr. Igor Lukšič as a candidate for the Minister of Education and Sport of the Ministry of Education and Sport was appropriate. For more detailed questions and answers, see the magnetogram. As has been said, a candidate for Culture, Mrs Maja Shirca Ravnikar, also appeared before the committee. The performance lasted four and a half hours. He spent most of his time on questions and answers. This is where I'm taking you to the magnetogram, from which you will be able to understand that the candidate has answered the questions raised. In its opening presentation to the members and members of the Committee, the proposed candidate presented her views on the area she will lead, stressing that it is important for her that culture move in the free spaces and that it will not divide, ideologically separate, trample the past and sit in front of the challenges of the future. The Minister's candidate presented her views in more detail on the sets below, i.e. she narrowed them down into ten sets. Different faces of culture: that culture is not understood as a cost, as it enables you to understand the existence of different thoughts and views. Supreme artistic creativity can be the main ambassador of a young creative country in the world and a developed cultural life generator of a visit to foreigners in Slovenia. Cultural tourism should become one of the strongest generators of the national economy. The funding was the next set in which the candidate advocated a stable growth of cultural resources within the budget, although in the past it was possible to detect a decline in the share of cultural resources. The national programme for culture in 2008-2011 was adopted without public debate and more dialogue and consideration of the opinions of the National Council for Culture should be given to the design of the programme in the future. In particular, she abstained in education for culture and culture. She dedicated a special set to cinematography and books. Here, in particular, I should like to point out that it has advocated a procedure for the application of the zero VAT rate. The tax collected from the book will return to the book or to the book agency. There will be increased funding for the payment of library compensation and the introduction of a fee for rent in school libraries, thus providing greater social security for members of all art societies. The purchase of original literature for general libraries will also increase. There was also talk of a historical memory. The Coalition Agreement underlines the digitisation of library archival and museum materials. The Law on Archive Material also treats official documents as a cultural monument. In order to preserve the historical memory, it is necessary to regulate the conditions for the protection of archival materials, to supplement the law on the protection of cultural heritage and to protect quality, more modern monuments of architecture. One of the components was a lover culture, equal access to culture for all citizens and citizens. Lover culture is a personal activity in culture and it is therefore necessary to maintain the network of organisation through the public fund for cultural activities or other forms that it can introduce in the area of regionalisation. In particular, it stopped with the intellectual work of cultural creators and ended with its view of the media, where it announced the need to amend the law on RTV and also the law on the media, both of which will take place in the wake of an expensive public debate. The status of the STA must also be regulated. Finally, the Committee adopted an opinion with 13 votes in favour and five against the fact that Majda Širca Ravnikar's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Culture from the Ministry of Culture's field of work was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The report of the Health Committee will be presented by President Ljubo Germić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the list of candidates and candidates submitted for appointment by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, Minister and Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly on 19. 11. The Health Committee was also moved by Mr Borut Miklavčič, candidate for Minister of Health. In the opening presentation, the proposed candidate for minister presented his views and visions for the work of the Ministry for which he was proposed. He pointed out that in the main activity in 2006, more than 8 million 200 thousand visits were made in the general infirmary, in the children's dispensary over a million visits and just as many in the school dispensary. More than 14 million prescriptions were issued in 2006. More than EUR 3 billion is allocated to healthcare in a given year, with most of these funds being managed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The health care system is thus increasingly at the forefront of the gap between the needs of the insured and the selected funding. The health system needs are growing much faster than the financial capacity. The Minister's candidate also assessed that the healthcare system in the Republic of Slovenia is good, but that it needs to be thoroughly reformed and updated. The Minister of Health's candidate for the Ministry of Health has further outlined some of the most important priorities during this mandate period: maintaining a system of inter-generational solidarity and reciprocity, and the principle that everyone pays contributions in proportion to their income. Since the healthcare system is very complex, better cooperation with and responsibility for other resources must be transferred to them, with the Ministry of Health being the link between all and the departments and services. Health homes must remain providers of the basic healthcare system, and the concessionaires must take the same part of the responsibility before that. There will be a need to introduce a more rational spending of available funding in this area, as analyses carried out in the EU show that more than 20% of healthcare resources are lost in the system somewhere. In order to achieve the priorities presented, he also cited the following measures: further development and modernisation of basic health care, introduction of differentiated contribution rates for employers, long-term care insurance, as home care is cheaper. In view of the ageing population, it will be necessary to strengthen the area of gerontology, the cost management of medicinal products, in pharmacology, the expanded professional colleagues should play their part in the prescription of medicines, the management of abstention for up to 30 days, and the submission of regression claims. In doing so, he particularly touched on open-ended pressing issues, namely the review of the accumulated loss of hospitals in the Slovenian space, the issues of the 2008 general arrangements and proposed that general arrangements should be adopted for two years. He highlighted the issue of investment in health care, the issue of waiting years, organisation and management in institutions, the issue of eHealth and some others. At the end of his presentation, the candidate for a minister specifically highlights the fact that Slovenia is the only country that did not draw financial resources from the EU fund, where almost 30 million euros were available. Following the meeting of the Committee, the majority of the debaters and debaters stressed that the candidate for Minister for the topic and health issues is well-known. In doing so, they expressed their expectation and support for the changes that will be necessary during this mandate period. In the opinion of some members of the Committee, the future minister will need a lot of courage, energy and strength to make all the proposed changes. Members and Members then asked the candidate a number of questions from a wide range of working areas of this Ministry, the proposed candidate for a minister answered most of the questions raised by the members and members of the committee and also briefed them on some of his personal views in specific areas. At the end of his presentation, the Minister's candidate specifically stressed that he would try to keep the Ministry a designer and health policy holder in Slovenia. With all those involved in the field of health care, I would like to organise and establish such a system in the future in order to make it a satisfactory majority, especially for insured persons, patients and, of course, those who carry out this activity. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate for Minister for Health, Mr Borut Miklavčič, the Health Committee, with eight votes in favour and four votes against, adopted the opinion that the presentation of Mr Borut Miklavčič's views and views, a candidate for Minister for Labour of the Minister for Health, was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development will be presented by President Vila Trofenik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u23	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. Candidate for Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Mrs Mag. Zlata Plosteiner presented herself to the members and members of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development at an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on 17 November this year. Following the opening presentation of her work, the candidate presented her position and views on the current problem of local self-government and regional development in the Republic of Slovenia, stressing that open issues in this area can be successfully addressed through a thorough reflection and dialogue of all political parties, both positions and opposition, and with the participation of all government departments. The framework for addressing open problems in this area is provided by the Coalition Treaty, which emphasises that we want to develop a society of active citizens, which can, in particular, be actively involved at local level in policy and decision-making on the conditions of their lives and work. The candidate stressed the need to build on the current situation resulting from the process of developing local self-government in the last 14 years. Because we have municipalities that vary greatly in population, size, human potential, material, physical and human resources, but they all have the same responsibilities and responsibilities. Such diversity of municipalities also creates a source of problems, both in terms of the transfer of tasks from the country and the search for a suitable funding system. In doing so, the candidate highlighted the principle of subsidiarity to which Slovenia committed itself when adopting the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which requires the transfer of powers to the level closest to the citizens and most suitable for decision-making on local matters. This requires not only the transfer of tasks and competences, but also the necessary financial resources and the greatest possible financial autonomy of local communities. The candidate expressed her belief that existing solutions could be improved and that the financial autonomy of the municipalities could be increased while respecting the principle of solidarity. In the course of the presentation, the candidate highlighted the challenges that lie ahead in the development of local communities, as the capacity of local communities to integrate into development projects is very different, showing experience from both the past and the present. The candidate also highlighted the importance of dialogue between local communities and the country, in particular the importance of both associations for a more active role of local communities in the preparation of different solutions by the Government and in supporting the involvement of both associations of municipalities before the activities of the Committee of the Regions in the European Union and the Congress at the Council of Europe. In particular, it highlighted the need to consider further transferring powers from country to local communities while taking into account greater financial autonomy of municipalities and their diversity. Following her presentation, the candidate for a minister touched on the regionalisation process as one of the hottest political issues, given the unfortunate attempt in the previous term. She stressed that she intended to face this problem at the beginning of her mandate and at the same time drew attention to the wrong belief that we need regionalisation in order to use European funds. The candidate stressed that regional policy could be implemented through different mechanisms, but regionalisation would facilitate the achievement of the objectives of more coherent regional development. It also drew attention to the importance of the sub-regional level, for which an extension in the existing law on coherent regional development is appropriate. In the past mandate, the existing legal solutions can form the basis for finding new, better solutions. Last but not least, the candidate for a minister highlighted the importance of European development funds and the responsibility of all the resources to effectively draw on them. In this regard, communication between local communities and the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development is particularly important. Upon completion of the presentation, the candidate successfully answered a number of questions from members and members of the committee, both in the field of local self-government and in the field of regional development. Thus, the Committee adopted, without a vote, an opinion on the appropriateness of the presentation of a candidate for a minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be presented by the President, Mr Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u25	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! In his name and on behalf of the 11th Committee, which met at the 1st urgent meeting on 19 November and at this meeting was presented to us by Dr. Milan Pogačnik, candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In the introduction, the candidate presented himself first. We have recognized from this presentation that this is a man with great professional experience. He has been a Dean of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine since 1990, and he also has extensive international experience, as he is a member of the board of directors of the European Food Safety Agency, elected by the Council of Agricultural Ministers on a proposal from the European Parliament. In 2004, he was also Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and this year he received the highest Chinese recognition as a foreign expert in contributing to China's development. After recording the situation in agriculture, he presented us with the starting points for his work and key directions. The key focus is that Slovenia wants to have sustainable production of as cheap and safe food as possible and that it wants to preserve rural settlement and processing in order to protect agricultural land from pollution and reckless use. It will therefore immediately undertake a health review of European agricultural policy, at the same time starting with the preparation of an agricultural development strategy, which we have not had since 1993 in Slovenia. As an agricultural resource, which is also a major environmental concern, it wants to cooperate well with other resources, notably the Ministry of Environment and Space, and to prepare a national strategy to combat climate change. Special attention is also intended to be paid to the use of plant protection products and to cooperate with the Ministry of Health. A law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other agricultural plants will be introduced into the legislative process, adapting this to our situation in order to minimise the impact on our environment. It is also important to draft a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products, where it wants to invite all agricultural actors to participate, so that this path from field to table will be as easy as possible and that as many people will recognize safe and quality food in Slovenian food. The emphasis is on self-sustaining food. For example, we have an area of vegetables, where we have only 10% of our self-sustainment in Slovenia. It also intends to give special attention to the successful and effective functioning of all services at the Ministry and also to the bodies in its composition, in particular the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development. It is also intended to grant accreditation to the Agricultural Advisory Service in the framework of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, in order to ensure that the decision-making process and then the subsidies are carried out as quickly as possible and that the subsidy will be paid in the same year in December. It also pays attention to the demographic situation in the countryside, as well as to the complementary activities that are growing in Slovenia and are an important source of development, the conservation of the field areas for food production, not for energy use, and further wants an open dialogue with the participation of all actors in agriculture. Many of the questions raised by members of the committee were also successfully answered by the candidate for minister. Perhaps some of the answers can also reveal questions. It is intended to prepare a new law on agricultural land, as well as a new law on agricultural land and to regulate what needs to be regulated in this area, which it will also find after a careful review. Once again, the payment of subsidies in December, the accreditation of the agricultural advisory service and the emphasis on the promotion law have been highlighted, which is a real desire to bring food closer to consumers and also to build confidence in [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Slovenian diet. [[...]] The Committee voted where 8 members supported Professor Pogačnik as a suitable candidate, 2 opposed. On the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the presentation of Prof. Dr. Milan Pogačnik as a candidate for agriculture, forestry and nutrition was assessed as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be presented by President Andrej Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u27	Good afternoon, Mr President and Mr President of the Government. Allow me to present the opinion of the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which on 17 November listened to the presentation by Prof. Dr. Ivan Svetlik, candidate for Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The proposed candidate for minister initially presented his views on regulating the area, which will play an important role during this crisis period. As a basic guide, he highlighted the constant search for a balance between the market and social security, but with the aim of improving the quality of life of all people in Slovenia. The priorities that lie ahead of the Ministry in the coming period have been narrowed down to a few points. First, of course, the increase in employment, the constant employment of all people in Slovenia. He stressed the need to find ways to increase the level of activity of the older population, which, of course, is far behind in the developed world or Europe. He stressed social entrepreneurship as an underutilised form of employment, especially for those individuals and groups who compete more heavily in the labour market and will therefore strengthen this activity. The security of flexibility or, "flexicurity", as it refers to in the English word, is, of course, understood in the Slovenian space in a highly dimensional way, especially as an increase in flexibility. In this area, Slovenia has experienced quite a degree of increased flexibility, but has ignored the other two elements of this concept. This is security and an active employment policy. It will therefore be necessary to pay particular attention to young people who today bear the greatest burden of increasing the flexibility of employment and providing them with adequate security. It is also necessary to strengthen an active employment policy, which is the best bridge between supply and demand and overcoming the crisis situation for which expenditure has decreased significantly over the past period, while Slovenia is far behind comparable countries in the use of such initiatives. The pension system represents one of the biggest challenges of the present time not only in Slovenia, but also in the world. As set out in the Coalition Treaty, it will be committed to modernising the pension system, which needs to be provided with stable funding resources. Active ageing should be promoted, that is to say, by people-friendly measures, to increase their extended work activity, to include contributions from those forms of work that only contribute to the pension fund, to strengthen additional pension savings and to change the tax system in order to be more stimulating for these forms of savings. He stressed, however, that it would be necessary to immediately approach the formation of the project group and to initiate a dialogue on the issue of pension changes or modernisation of the pension system. He further assessed that the level of poverty risk in Slovenia, which is on average 11.7%, is more favourable than the level of poverty risk on average in European countries and that it can be attributed to an effective social transfer policy to a large extent. However, he mentioned that it would be necessary to re-evaluate the mechanisms that provide minimum social security, starting with the assessment of minimum wages and minimum pensions as well as minimum income as criteria for the granting of monetary social assistance. At the same time, of course, we must not neglect the fairness of the system, which means that mechanisms must be put in place to prevent its abuse. With regard to working methods, he has particularly engaged in two interlinked dialogues, not only the classic one, which is most frequently mentioned, but also the dialogue between traditional social partners, but also the dialogue between generations. Finally, I should like to say that the members of the committee have assessed that the candidate for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has real knowledge and that he will lead the relevant ministry well. Following the answers to the questions they asked him, it was answered in the most appropriate manner and in a broad manner and in particular, and the Committee, with 10 votes and 4 votes against, adopted the opinion that the presentation of Prof. Ivan Svetlik was appropriate and proposed for approval by the honourable assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The Transport Committee report will be presented by President Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, everybody! In the opening presentation, Dr Patrick Vlačič touched on the situation of Slovenia and in particular its geostrategic position, which lies at the intersection of the fifth and tenth trans-European transport corridor and allows the country to take advantage of commodity flows by creating added value in the supply chain and becoming a logistics platform for Central and South-Eastern Europe. In order to achieve this objective, he stressed that it is particularly important to develop national strategies for different transport sectors and to prepare a strategic action plan and to create conditions for the establishment of logistics distribution centres. In the past term, we have received our transport policy. The aim of this transport policy is to ensure that road, rail, maritime and air transport act as a single system. However, the candidate found that the Slovenian transport system has some problems due to bottlenecks and the low flow of certain infrastructure sections. Transport is poor if we look at individual industries, unbalanced, security, especially for road transport. Rail infrastructure is in poor condition, technical and technological equipment is outdated, airport infrastructure is unevenly developed. On the basis of these findings, it has given solutions to individual sectors, namely, the railway system needs to accelerate activities on projects of European importance, such as the 6th priority project on the road from Kopra to Hodoš, while the modernisation of railway infrastructure on the 5th and 10th corridors is necessary, although this update alone will not be sufficient for more coherent regional development and, in particular, to ensure the conditions for efficient mobility of the public passenger population will also be essential to ensure the appropriate quality of other rail infrastructure. In the road programme, he stressed that the construction of the highway cross was nearing its end, but pointed out that the main highway programme encountered difficulties in providing financial resources. In the last four years, the funding method has changed significantly, with an average of 31% from 1994 to 2007 from the state budget and only 2% in 2008. In doing so, he also drew attention to the additional highway programme adopted in 2004, which envisions the realization of the 3, 3A and 4 development axes, which, in addition to the basic programme, means additional construction of roads of 140 kilometres and worth EUR 1361 million. In doing so, he stressed, however, that unfortunately, in the past four years, the Government has failed to prepare and adopt any state-owned investment plan. Also in the other state road network, he pointed out that the overall situation of this network was critical, as during the construction period the motorway was underinvested in the rest of the state network and about 50% of this network was in very poor condition. This can also affect the coherent regional development of Slovenia as a limiting factor. He therefore committed himself to continuing the scope of the budget lines for the development and investment of the state road network, ranging from EUR 250 million to EUR 300 million. As regards aviation, he pointed out that the Aviation Act provides that guidelines for the sustainable development of civil aviation and air safety are to be established through the National Civil Aviation Development Programme. He also warned that national spatial plans for international airports in the Republic of Slovenia were not adopted. It therefore committed itself to adopting spatial plans as soon as possible and to ensuring the normal functioning of the airports, as well as of course of the air carrier. In other areas, he highlighted tolling, where we find that blames do not provide the economy of the road system and Dars will have difficulties in paying off the credits. At these serious starting points, Members also took part in the debate, drew attention to these many problems and finally voted on the basis of 11 votes in favour and 6 against the view that the presentation of Dr Patrick Vlačič as a candidate for the Minister of Transport is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy will be presented by Mr Ivo Wigl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u31	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The candidate for Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Samuel Žbogar, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 11. Presented to the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and answered their questions. I would remind you that you have a rather extensive written report on the debate, so I would like to allow myself to complete this report only with some emphasis on the presentation of the candidate for Minister and the rich debate. In a discussion that lasted almost three and a half hours, all the members of the committee spoke. What was, in fact, the characteristic of a candidate for a new minister and members of the committee is that it is a common opinion that foreign policy is an area in which the greatest degree of consensus, if not uniformity, must be constantly pursued, but at least some operational capacity that comes with open discussions and good arguments. The candidate presented a vision of modern and different management of external affairs as we have been trained to date. I believe that the position of Slovenia itself, which we have achieved by integrating into Euro-Atlantic integration, dictates the shift of some of the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy. The focus of the future minister's attention on multilateralism was interesting and significant, meaning openness to global problems in the world, modern problems where diplomacy and the policy of a non-quantitarian country can be an important contribution. The candidate paid a lot of attention to problems in relations with neighbours, stressing the need to build good neighbourly relations patiently and openly. The debate highlighted the issue of the protection of Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and the need for the State to give the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a consistent role of protecting our minorities abroad. This is a particularly topical issue with regard to the Austrian State Treaty and the strong position of the candidate that Slovenia is the successor of the State party to the Austrian State Treaty and that, on this basis, it has the right, for the first time, to pursue an active policy vis-à-vis the neighbouring country when it comes to these issues and also to directly influence the fact that the provisions of the Austrian State Treaty are actually being implemented. Much attention was paid to relations with Croatia and other countries of the former Yugoslavia. In these relations, it is clear that they represent many opportunities for achieving economic and other interests. I think it is reasonable to point out that there may be some over-emphasis on open problems with Croatia, that there are also issues, particularly when it comes to the border issue, that there are other issues and also other countries that need to be addressed through effective diplomacy. The candidate left the impression and belief that he would be able to do his job well in this regard, so he received support for his performance, 13 members of the committee expressed their confidence and recognition of his performance, 1 against. Finally, let me say that the candidate stressed that he intends to become very involved in good cooperation with the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The Commission's report on relations with Slovenians in place and around the world will be presented by President Miro Petek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 20 November 2008, Dr. Boštjan Žekš presented himself to the members of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide and answered questions. After a brief personal presentation, Dr. Žekš focused on the future work ahead. He said that the coalition agreement deals with Slovenians in place and around the world, because cooperation between the opposition and the coalition is essential. He stressed that the basis for his work would be the Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia outside its borders, and he would coordinate key decisions with the coalition and the opposition. In addition, the candidate highlighted the basic orientations of his future work, among which he first placed a single cultural space. He stressed the need to first define what a single cultural space means and how it works. In this regard, he highlighted the fact that this speech was already decades ago, when it was not possible to establish a single Slovenian cultural space because of the state borders. Today, these barriers are no longer available, so all segments of society need to be linked as much as possible, and all Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia must be involved and involved. In doing so, the candidate also pointed out the fact that the concept of substitution should be both linguistic and substantively modernised. He also stressed the need for cooperation with Slovenians in the place and abroad to rise to a higher level, as only folklore Slovenia is not enough. At the same time, he expressed his desire to join the work of institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. He also drew attention to the need for greater media coverage of national mixed space in neighbouring countries. In addition, he said that something had already been done in the area, but that the topic should be included in the regular daily reports of Slovenian media and not in some special broadcast. He further highlighted the problem of evicting highly educated and qualified individuals from Slovenia. In this regard, he expressed his belief that it would be good for Slovenia to keep a consistent record of their number, following the example of some other countries, and in particular to cooperate with them. At the end of the presentation, Mr Žekš, the candidate for Minister without a licence, also spoke about the concern for Slovenian language and the concern for learning it. He talked about greater economic cooperation along the border, he talked about the diversity of roof organisations of Slovenes abroad and, of course, about the current developments concerning the Slovenian minority in Italy. Members and members of the Commission asked a number of questions to the candidate without a director. Among other things, the current issue of reducing the financial resources for the Slovenian minority in Italy by the Italian Government, taking into account and consistent implementation of the rights of the Slovenian indigenous minority in the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Austria, the technically assured but still ineffective broadcasting of radio and television signals in the area of the border, in particular in Venice and the Videm Region, the expansion of the use of Italian language in the Slovenian territory, the uniform representation of on-board organisations and their organisation, the issue of the purchase of ownership and the operation of the student home of Korotán in Vienna, the financial support of certain key cultural institutions in exchange. The Minister's candidate was also asked about the coordinated functioning of civil organisations in Slovenia dealing with the issue of eviction and resettlement, of course, also on the initiative following a constitutional change to elect two representatives from Slovenians in place and Slovenians around the world, as members of this National Assembly, on the financing of the future ministry, on the notification of the succession of the Austrian State Treaty and so on. I therefore mentioned some of the questions raised at the Commission's meeting, and the candidate for a minister also answered these questions. After the presentation, the Commission unanimously adopted the opinion that the presentation of Dr. Boštjan Žekš as a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian nationality with the community of neighbouring countries [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians worldwide, appropriate. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u35	Good afternoon, distinguished president of the National Assembly! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will be responsible and confident in supporting the proposed candidates and candidates. Why? Because we firmly believe that the new government, as a team, will be able to drive Slovenia towards a competitive economy, at the same time a just development of intergenerational solidarity, social justice, a coherent rule of law, so that it can find the right relationship between the environment and the necessary development in this development. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that changes are the only constant in politics. The fact is that in the coming times, we need to change the way we decide and act, so all the announcements and pre-announced initiatives of the mandate holder are welcome and welcome. We need an unburdened, open, pragmatic social dialogue, but not an authoritarian way of managing, which is too often forgotten about the profession, about civil society and, of course, sometimes also based on the discreditation of other thinkers. One of the basic conditions for achieving the above objectives is to establish the functioning of the rule of law, equality before the law and, of course, the full protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. These are the basic conditions that we must ensure that we can continue to build an economically successful, social and just society. The full functioning of the rule of law is the foundation of every democratic society and therefore it is of utmost importance who and how the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice will lead. We are therefore proud that this great responsibility has been entrusted by the President of the Government to people who have committed their entire career to ensuring respect for the rule of law and human rights, that new, fresh, unburdened faces in politics and as respectable members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia come to this responsible and challenging place. We are ready to assume our part of the task and also our part of the responsibility. Mrs Katarina Kresal certainly has experience in the judiciary and also in the economy. According to our assessment, it is important that the interior ministry is taken over by a woman, because in Slovenian politics they are still strong below the European average. We are confident that the decision of the Prime Minister of the Government to propose women, brave women, to some of the key departments, and that she will also be paid and that ministers will also set an example for other women in their social engagement. Global trends in internal security reinforce the normative and actual pressure on the protection and respect of human rights. Therefore, in such situations, it is all the more important that the Minister of the Interior, with personal efforts, legal knowledge and professional experience, may take care to enforce the principle of the legality of operations, the integrity of procedures and the full professional supervision of the competent national authorities for internal affairs, in particular here, we stress the Police. We are confident that Katarina Kresal will be able to take care of the safety of citizens and citizens, while not neglecting or forgetting the respect for their human rights. Aleš Zalar is no doubt an outstanding expert in the field of justice. During its presidency of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Court received a special recognition from the Council of Europe and the European Commission for the programme of judicial backlogs with mediation and accelerated judicial proceedings in the framework of the European Court of Justice competition for the most innovative programme. The candidate has extensive professional experience, broad legal knowledge, high professional reputation at home and abroad, and demonstrated management and management skills. Developmental challenges in the field of justice require the choice of such an excellent candidate for the justice minister as Aleš Zalar, as this is the only way to strengthen public confidence in justice and, above all, the values of the rule of law. Your Honor! We have difficult, serious and responsible times ahead, and a good team is important for the successful leadership of the country. I'm sure a good team was proposed. It would be good for all citizens and citizens to guide our ninth government on the path with optimism, goodwill and trust. This will certainly be good for all our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Laszlo Göncz has the floor, on behalf of the Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dear President, Mr President of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the mission of the National Community to the National Assembly, some stated that the Member should be consistently determined to all the positions of the ruling coalition, since he has so much more chance of meeting the expectations of the national community to some extent. I have repeatedly pointed out that I do not want to do this alone, because then the essence of this important and democratic mission would be completely lost. We and the Member of the Italian National Community will always vote on the basis of substantive and ethical arguments, which can contribute more to decisions that will benefit all citizens, of course, primarily in line with the views of the national communities and the region from which we come. Today, however, I will undoubtedly support Mr Borut Pahor's new Slovenian government, as the current ruling coalition has taken into account most of our substantive proposals concerning the State's obligations to preserve the identity of the national communities. We have also identified preparations for cooperation and appropriate action at the presentations of candidates and candidates for ministers or ministers. However, we expect that the envisaged solutions and tasks will also be effectively realized. I hope that we agree that such obligations are a continuing task of the executive state. The issues of the protection of national minorities must not be understood in such a way that, with certain single legal and financial interventions and solutions, we will always address this issue. In this area, too, it is necessary to adapt dynamically to the actual state of affairs, as we expect from the new Slovenian government. Of course, we are aware of the importance of our own responsibility. As a member of the minority national community in Slovenia, I particularly welcome the introduction of the role of Minister for Slovenians living outside the country of the native nation within the new government. This knowledge, especially thanks to the previous ruling coalition for the proper resolution of this issue and for the adoption of the law, certainly reflects the level of interpretation of the national issue in that country, which is undoubtedly considered a model form in the wider European area. For peoples such as Hungarians and Slovenians, where national borders are not identical to national and linguistic cultural boundaries, therefore a relatively high percentage of the national body lives outside the boundaries of the native nation, this is a delicate approach to solving the national issue is particularly important and desirable. I am convinced that if the country provides a high level in this area, it contributes to the overall democratisation of society. We expect that the Office of Nationality within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also be able to strengthen slightly organizationally and functionally within the new mandate. Addressing a national issue is a very complex matter and therefore requires us, particularly the executive branch, an approach that is suited to the challenges of today's time, where integration and the constructive formation of multiethnic areas are at the forefront, and cannot, by any means, impose negative, deplorative and conflict stereotypes, particularly for certain periods of the past century. It is important that today they receive support from programmes that simultaneously provide in the majority context of multiculturalism and from a national perspective of cultural and linguistic values. We are, of course, still a long way from the ideal level, so once again, I stress that such qualitative solutions, such as the Ministry of Slovenia's World Department, are encouraging and welcome. For the sake of a more consistent and professionally sound policy towards national communities, we will also propose the adoption of a general national law, which will be of an inclusive and complementary nature, but will not interfere with well-established constitutional provisions, so we are counting on the conditional cooperation and assistance of the new Slovenian government. I also hope that the current opposition will act similarly. In addition, legislation and substantive solutions will need to be complemented or upgraded as soon as possible in some other areas, allowing more appropriate opportunities in the area of equal use of the national language in the national mixed area, education, culture, information, science and economic and social issues. The resolution of the latter is particularly alarming in the case of the Hungarian community, since the Premur region, irrespective of nationality, is faced with major problems despite recent acquisitions of infrastructure, where it is unrealistic to expect a shift from a dead point without more express assistance from the State or the wider regional community. It will be necessary to examine thoroughly the issue of the more competitive and effective impact of monetary investments or loans that the State has consistently earmarked to promote the economic development of the national mixed area. The current situation in this area is literally unsustainable and does no good to anyone. We must also be more consistent in the field of the realization of the rights already guaranteed by nationalities, because, above all, we are confronted with inconsistencies from this point of view. I am convinced that upgrading minority legislation benefits both the national communities and the majority. A well-founded legal correction in this area does not need to be accepted with reservation. Great Hungarian statesman of the 19th century, Ferenc Dejak [[?]] whose history originates from the area of today's Prekmurje, it was said in some debate about the amendment of legislation, in the translation: "The wrong button on the jacket must be fastened again." Finally, I would like to reiterate the already repeatedly highlighted view that, despite the unpredictable economic crisis that is likely to affect any of us more or less in systemic nationalities issues, as well as in the case of comprehensive assistance to Slovenians outside the country's borders, as well as in the resolution of the most socially vulnerable areas, crisis trends should not have an even greater impact than in the cases mentioned above, since it is mostly a situation where there will be no more remedial examinations later. Despite the difficult circumstances, the new Slovenian Government wants much success, and I hope that we will work well and constructively together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly, the distinguished President of the Government. We have committed ourselves to the coalition partners by signing a coalition agreement and thereby underpining our firm commitment to the principle of professionalism and the ability of people who have the advantage over their political and client loyalty. In the spirit of the coalition agreement, we wrote: Slovenia today, like the whole world, faces the challenges posed by the tight economic situation. At a time of declining global economic activity and crisis in global financial markets, we have an ambitious objective: to continue the path between the most developed and the most solidarity countries in the world and to prevent and at the same time address the causes of unacceptable fragmentation in society. The coalition partners are convinced that Slovenia can continue to follow the path of a modern, economically successful, open, solidarity and knowledge and respect for environmental standards based on society. We believe in Slovenia, where everyone will have opportunities and opportunities, but at the same time he will accept his share of responsibility for personal and common good. Active social partnership and strong civil society are a prerequisite for legitimate and deliberate solutions for coalition partners. Exactly one-and-a-half days separate us from election day. It is interesting that just so many days ago, four years ago, from the election to the date of the appointment of the Government, despite the fact that the law changed the voting from abroad, which required additional time to determine the results. So much for the obvious that we're late. Although we have stressed the quality of the agreement, that is, the substantive agreement before the rush, we are still in the normal timeframes. From his election, on 7 November, he quickly forwarded a list of proposed candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. They successfully presented themselves to us on our home work bodies. This is also confirmed by the vote, as high support has been expressed and in no case has the vote been sharply divided into coalition and opposition. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I will not assess the presentation of individual candidates and candidates. This has been done by Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats at the Committees. We are convinced, however, that the choice of Borut Pahor's mandate is the right one. Also, the representation of men and women in the future government, and this is particularly pleased with us, is much higher than it was in the previous term. With this decision by the Prime Minister, we are achieving the standards of developed European democracies. Article 110 of the Constitution states: The Government shall be composed of the President and the Ministers. The Government and individual ministers shall, within their respective powers, be independent and accountable to the National Assembly. The President of the Government announced his active presence at the temple of Slovenian democracy. Along with the ministers and ministers. We are confident that cooperation will be good and successful. In view of the situation in which we have come together with the rest of the world, at the end of the presentation, where, of course, I predict our support to the presented team, I will use the mining greeting "Good luck!"
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u41	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Mr President of the Government, colleague and colleague! Today, the National Assembly will decide on a very important matter. In fact, after this decision, there will be a political picture of Slovenia, which has been emerging for a long time. In other words, this picture, to a large extent to be completed by the confirmation of this government, to which I have no doubt, could be inserted into ten points. First time. After these last elections, after a certain period of time, a coalition was re-established in Slovenia on an ideological basis. This coalition has a sufficient majority, appointed the leadership of the National Assembly, the mandate-holder, and today the new government will no doubt be confirmed. The legislative and executive branch of the government will be in the hands of the same options, as is usually the case for parliamentary democracies. If we reach out to the memory a few years ago, we see that, in fact, this same coalition, which today proposes and confirms the government, was formed last year at the election of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The same parties supported the candidate, who was also elected and is today the current President of the Republic of Slovenia. So we also have someone here who was elected with the same political or ideological support. Fourth time. With today's election of the government, if it is also confirmed and because it is in the package, this will certainly happen, the candidate for the Minister of Justice, this coalition will also rule the judiciary. This candidate for the Minister of Justice has the power to direct by e-mail a judicial society in which virtually all judges in Slovenia are to act and which judicial proceedings are to boycott. This is an extremely controversial conduct and we regret that the mandate holder or the President of the Government of this candidate has not withdrawn from the list. This is a big stain on the whole proposal. Fifth. In the last local elections, this same political option also gained absolute power in the capital by an absolute majority. Ljubljana in Slovenia, which is still significantly too centralised, represents more than a quarter of political, economic and financial power. Six. Following the last elections in the State Council last year, a majority of the same political option, which is also called the Government today, was also formed in the State Council and elected as President by the Liberal Democracy or one of the coalition parties. The vote in this body also shows that it will have a current government majority, an absolute majority and support in this control body of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a week. Before the elections, the vast majority of the media in Slovenia openly and aggressively supported the parties who today make up the coalition and propose to the government. The ownership is mainly in the hands of capital owners who have or have had the membership cards of customers forming a new government. Eight. Many union officials, claiming to be representatives of one party in social dialogue, have run for office on the list of parties to the new government coalition. At the same time, officials are members, candidates of the same parties are also the leading people of the Chamber of Commerce and Economic Affairs. This is in an option that is another partner in social dialogue. If we look now at the institutions of so-called organised civil society, we see that 20% or more of civil society organisations, including universities, the Olympic Committee, to the Alliance of Retired Persons, are led by former Members, ministers or other senior party officials of the current government coalition. From here also the motive and requirement of the coalition contract that so-called civil society, organised civil society consists of the programme council of Radiotelevision Slovenia. And ten times. On the list of the 100 richest Slovenians, which was published months ago, you do not find any of the types of parties who will be in the opposition in the next term, but at the same time many people from the coalition's parties, even though they are declared left. These ten points point to a political picture that is unusually similar to the one before the first free elections in 1990, in color. The difference is, of course, in the existence of a allowed opposition and in the fact that the institutions of the country today have the necessary formal legitimacy because they are shaped in a democratic manner. And today Slovenia is a member of the European Union, NATO, the Council of Europe and most other democratic international institutions. Nevertheless, the view of this picture shows that it is an extremely large one, in fact, absolutely after today's elections and the vote, the concentration of power of one political option. It is a poor comfort for society's health that absolute authority also requires absolute responsibility. Mr Borut Pahor, President of the new government, has spoken a lot about responsibility before the elections. Today, that word was almost unheard of, and yet what was said on his part today is largely worthy of support. He said that we needed each other and that we needed to shrink our species. This is a statement that everyone would certainly sign in this situation. I would have sounded significantly better if I had not received a letter from the President of the Republic half an hour before this sentence was made, which was also chosen with the support of this same option, in which he rejected the appointment of a number of good candidates for ambassadors. Two of these were led by the Council of the European Union in the first half of this year. This is a much more difficult and responsible function than being just a minister or mostly a president of the country. Here it seems to me that we are talking one thing, working another, and throwing knowledge through the window, which has been acquired by the torture during a rather great challenge for Slovenia. It is easy to congregate species of the same thinking, but in Slovenia we live not only the same thinking. We are different, as in all other democratic countries. And ambition should be to combine the knowledge and experience of all. In this performance, the President of the Government spoke about the measures to be taken to overcome the recession. I'd be careful using that word. Otherwise, she became part of some new river. In fact, it's hard to read an article where someone wouldn't use the word "recession" for anything he could think of. Even the most impossible comparisons can be seen that contain that word. Slovenia is not currently in recession. Unlike many other European countries, the latest indicators do not predict this. Even for September, when virtually the whole of Europe recorded a fall in employment, we recorded an increase in employment and a reduction in unemployment. Slovenia has avoided the financial crisis. No commercial financial institution has collapsed in Slovenia. I am afraid it will prove over time that the only more serious problems have been the institution that is not commercial and which should absolutely not have these problems. But let's leave that to the future. Slovenia has avoided the immediate consequences of the financial crisis but will not be able to avoid the economic crisis, because we are part of the European and global market and because the financial crisis is usually followed by economic and economic, if not managed, also political. However, the diagnosis is very important at this point because it is unwise to take measures to combat a disease that is not yet present; if you do not have angina, do not take antibiotics. Slovenia is in a position where it has to take rapid measures to prevent the recession or at least its long-term consequences. In September, when we recorded an increase in employment, many European countries have actually been in negative growth for the second quarter, which is the technical term for recession. According to all the data we have and are, of course, only one available to all the Member States' groups and institutions in this country, Slovenia is not in a position to be afraid of negative growth or long-term recessions. However, this situation can only be maintained if we take the right measures. I am pleased that we have aligned some of these measures in this transitional time with good cooperation. A few days ago, he went to Slovenia as one of the editors of the Financial Times, who made an annex to Slovenia. He said that Slovenia differs from other Central European countries, which it covers, even after the government and opposition - or if the parties are replaced vice versa - cooperate when it comes to some common interests, and that Slovenia has a reputation in the world also because it has already succeeded in its history in the face of important challenges. I am sorry, however, that part of these measures, which we have coordinated during this transitional period, was in some way misused for the decision taken after the discussions in the National Assembly, was not proposed by the Government, so that these marriage solutions also allow for the redemption of bad claims. I know that the new coalition was not united in this regard, too, but this decision has been taken. This possibility, which is now in law, is not only a threat to the great moral hazard, but also an open window for various pressures and, finally, a course that will be very difficult for the first time through the European network because of the ban on direct state aid, which no one in Europe can grant without the consent of the European Commission, and even when exceptional conditions are met and Opel will not receive such assistance in this way and beyond these rules, but also for the conduct that we have witnessed in the period from 1994 to 2004, when tax money covers poor claims or claims made by failed banks such as Triglav Bank, so that someone on the other hand has acquired multiple assets that are now privately owned. In short, I regret that this readiness of ours has been exploited at this point, and I point out that this solution is not good for those who think well in the coalition because they have left open doors for various pressures that will be difficult to shake. On the other hand, this makes it possible to act that is not good for anyone and is very expensive for everyone except for those who can benefit directly from it. Well, lastly, it is said that this danger due to this provision, which has come into law, is in some way reinforced by the formulation in the coalition treaty, which is the basis for today's vote on the proposed government, on economic crime. Because in the coalition contract, you have a very disturbing formulation that says that the coalition will only verify how much of this unjustifiable wealth has actually been obtained by crimes. It is said that there is a difference between unacceptable conduct, which is not a criminal act, even though someone has come to the property in an unacceptable manner, and those that are unacceptable and criminal. When such a document attempts to create a room for manoeuvre for such distinctions, it is a very bad signal for the various institutions that must fight economic crime. As a result, our fear of this exception, which has come as an opportunity to redeem bad claims, is even greater. The presentation by President Pahor of the Government made a number of general guidelines, which also go in the direction of addressing the challenges of preventing the consequences of the economic crisis. In general, except for one matter, it is possible to support these guidelines. What I have great problems with myself, and what has been said only specifically, is the only figure, the only percentage that has been expressed in these predictions, is the commitment to keep wages behind by 1% for productivity. We had this commitment in a social agreement that allowed the euro to be taken over, this was an agreed agreement of all the social partners, but this objective has been achieved. What lies ahead is not the consolidation of public finances because of the euro, but something else. Even if we say that this is some measure that can produce good results, we have to ask why for 1%. Why do wages have to fall by 1% for productivity?Oh, my God! I am afraid that this is said to be one of the directions that rolled through various drawers and sections of the Bank of Slovenia and once the finance ministry and which no one could rationally justify. By linearly limiting wages in the sense that they should be lagging behind 1% for productivity, this works demotivatingly, in some ways affecting good workers the most. And it's up to them how quickly we'll be back on track for rapid development and growth. Therefore, at least as necessary, such decisions should be left to sectoral collective bargaining agreements in direct social dialogue, without any law establishing that wages will be lag behind by 1% for productivity. It can be such an agreement or a solution for the public sector, for the economy I do not think it is wise. And I am sorry that this is the only concrete obligation that has been given between these general guidelines that are acceptable, but that is exactly what I have problems with. There have been a lot of debates about this - not only in us, but also in the European Union, and there are these concerns. What I am particularly pleased about at Mr Pahor's performance is the promise that the Government will consider tomorrow the laws already sent by the current government to the National Assembly, which relate mainly to the economic burden, the reduction of corporate income tax and the introduction of tax reliefs, especially for research and development. Even if technically different solutions are adopted, of course the Government has the right to re-check the calculations, although the numbers are one of the same institutions, it is certainly a step in the right direction and before it is made, so much better. I would like to point out that, in any event, these steps need to be taken as early as this year, so that we have sufficient room for manoeuvre in the budget for this year, due to the EUR 240 million budget surplus, a real budget surplus, which is likely to be slightly higher, as consumption has now decreased in this interim period. All of these proposals, which we have made to reduce the tax rates and to facilitate this year, mean that there will be no need to bind to any other items, just to account for the budget surplus. In the situation we are in, it is wise to use this reserve, because otherwise resources will have to be raised on social transfers, because the number of unemployed will increase and because the number of unemployed will be higher, you will not only pay for the unemployed, but fewer people will pay for the contributions and less money will be raised and we can get into the vicious circle. So for this year, I see that the solution is very simple. It means that a number of companies paying the deposit will receive some of the funds back. With this they will be able to cover the cancellation of orders, less pressure will be placed on forgiveness in sectors somewhere on the edge, and part of the solution is just ahead of us. Savings are required for the following year. The move announced by Mr Pahor about the resignation of the team is commendable, but the President of the Government has about as many representations as the President of the Republic has paid for the hotel in New York, so there will be no great savings here. It would be more important to continue the course of the previous mandate so as not to increase the number of employees in the administration. In the civilian part of public administration, but to shrink. The last term is the first in the history of this country when the number of civil servants in the state administration has decreased. I miss a similar direction, both in the coalition contract and in these predictions. The net profit of this reduction over the four years was 250 million euros and, if there is, there is a need to save here without any shock because people are retiring. It is easy to reduce the number of employees, which is still too large, by small measures. Although it is not of course we are a number, it is also a productivity issue. For these strategic measures, such as tax cuts, the introduction of incentives, which of course means a lower inflow on the revenue side of the budget, there is room for manoeuvre, there are also very rational reasons for this to happen. In the laziness debate, 1% means nothing for Slovenian companies 1% lower income tax or profit tax. This can mean between one and 200 jobs, depending on the size of the company, per year. This is particularly important for companies that still have enough breath and investment reserves, where it is possible to create new jobs and employ those who inevitably lose their jobs where the orders are reduced. And that's what's gonna happen. However, not all sectors are in the same situation, not all companies are in this situation, and therefore the reduction of taxes and the imposition of tax reliefs is a double positive measure. It is certainly necessary to listen to proposals coming from the economy in recent weeks to strengthen investment in housing, non-profit housing, as this has a positive impact on economic growth and employment. It is also necessary to continue building the infrastructure, as Slovenia needs it, not all the transport problems of this country are solved by the construction of the highway cross. There are still a third of people who do not have favorable or solid road links to the cities or points where they work every day. This is a waste of time and so on and investments also provide jobs. From this point of view, the coalition would also be expected to repair the coalition contract, because there is a huge difference between what the Treaty says and what the candidates have advocated for some of the resources, especially the economic ones, in the presentations in this High Council. In the Coalition Treaty, there is a general desire to increase contributions, with a concrete commitment to increase the health contribution to 9%, while candidates for ministers spoke about reducing these contributions. So before the coalition proposes a budget rebalancing, let it fix the coalition contract, because one like it simply "does not drink water". Even these promises about thousands of euros of minimum wage and everything else has to be expressed with great caution. Over the past four years, when we have had record economic growth, the highest in the history of the country, and I think it is much higher than it will be in the next four years, our gross domestic product has increased by 24%. That's that real reach, even when we're talking about a real raise of any salary. The average net earnings in Slovenia are around EUR 900, gross around EUR 1,400. It is not realistic to expect us to arrive at a minimum wage of EUR 900 or 1,000 in four years. This raises some expectations that can then cause problems in social dialogue. Unless we go into a period of fairly high inflation, which is not a real threat. However, I think it is important to have ambitious goals even when it comes to wages, but there are a number of restrictions or objectives here that can be ambiguous. In this regard, I would like to point out another difference which is important at the time of this government's term of office, given the state of play when the government took office four years ago. At that time, we set up a very ambitious package of economic and social reforms and implemented it in 70%. We have not achieved it at some points where social dialogue has taken place. One of these points was called flexicurity. Here we came only halfway through the amendment of the Labour Relations Act. An excuse or argument for those who opposed greater flexibility in the labour market, while at the same time greater unemployment guarantees, was that the sun shines, that we have high economic growth, that there is no need for companies to look for workers with lights on a white day, why they should talk about a flexible labour market. Well, now the situation is changing. I think some of their words will come to mind, but now the situation is different. There's no storm now, but by general belief, the sun is no longer shining. If you ask people, they'll say we're in recession, even though we're not, because it's all written and spoken of. This, of course, also has double effects, one of which is that there is also a greater willingness to change. So, for some reforms, now is a time that is significantly more favourable than it was four years ago. Because it doesn't seem necessary to fix the roof when the sun shines. Now that feeling is gone, and at least when it comes to flexicurity, a reform step needs to be taken forward. Now, I would also like to draw attention to some of the standards that have been achieved when it comes to some cooperation between the position and the opposition in the previous term, and for which we would not want them to break, even though there is one already. At the beginning of the previous term, we invited all parliamentary parties to discuss the formation of the coalition. We regret that this did not happen at the beginning of this mandate, because it is likely that the situation is so, after four years, that it calls for such binding, non-exclusive conduct significantly more than it did at the time. But we did something different back then. Not now, it wasn't, and we're just regretting it. Over the past four years, we have established standards, consultations with all parliamentary parties on foreign policy, in commissions preparing solutions for open issues between Slovenia and Croatia, we have included experts on a proposal from all parliamentary parties. In the last term, we have introduced a practice of consulting on the past and correcting injustices. We did not want to adopt these laws by voting, we are counting on the continuation of this practice also in this mandate. In the current mandate, we have enabled the opposition to be controlled by a measure through which opposition parties were able to propose experts to supervisory councils in state-owned enterprises and institutions, and people who were once proposed by opposition parties are still in all the most important supervisory councils, and in this way it has been possible to provide full information on the conduct of these companies and institutions, although this has not been the case in the public eye since this has always been silent. We expect this democratic standard to continue. In the previous term, we have not proposed any decision to change the decision taken at the referendum, and we expect that this standard will also be adhered to by the Government in the future, so that it will not change the laws and solutions adopted at the referendum without a referendum. This would be below the level of democratic standard already achieved in Slovenia. In the previous mandate, we proposed a partnership for development and such an offer was made by Mr Pahor, President of the Government, even today for this speaker. We accept this offer, it seems positive that this good tradition continues here. As soon as we expect a concrete proposal in this regard, there is a pattern, since almost two years of such cooperation has worked well, we have harmonised almost sixty important reform laws within this cooperation, and at least as regards the Slovenian Democratic Party as a major part of the opposition, we are also taking this offer forward, as we say. We expect a concrete proposal with priority on rapid intervention measures as soon as possible in order to avoid the negative effects of the economic crisis, but first the proposed measures for decommissioning the economy must be taken. In some ways, these laws, which are already under way and which are to be formally decided by the Government tomorrow, can be considered the first step of this specific cooperation in the development partnership in this mandate. As far as the government team is concerned, which is proposed, except in one case, I did not assess further, everyone will have the opportunity to prove themselves, for any of those proposed, we cannot say that it will be bad or that it will be a good minister, because it is not yet. At least on our side we promise these classic hundred days of peace. During this time, the Slovenian Democratic Party will not interpellate, nor will it interfere with other business, constitutional or legal measures it has for this direct control of the government's work. We are convinced that even in this situation, when there is actually a need to act quickly, the government takes a hundred days to actually take responsibility. Some are, the great ministers will take quite some time to get to know the situation, especially those who for the first time are taking up positions of responsibility in the executive branch, in which case, right at the top. I also wish the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, a successful mandate. We promise support wherever measures will be taken in the interest of Slovenia, as well as in all measures in which we will recognize a sincere desire for faster development, a better understanding of each other in Slovenia and a more just sharing of what has been created. Here, as I have said repeatedly publicly, Mr Pahor, President of the Government, and the entire Government count not only on our support, but also on activity, action. And if this partnership for development lives at least in this form and will be at least as substantive or as substantive as it was in this mandate, we can, together with pooling this knowledge in this slightly more indirect way together, contribute to the fact that even in the Slovenian public, the dominant word will be not more recession, which is now very modern, but more rapid development. Regardless of which government Slovenia has, Slovenia deserves success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' views.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable assembly, colleagues, Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished candidates for ministers! The Zares Group participated in all presentations by candidates for ministers, active, serious substantive and without any sense that our Members should limit themselves, censor themselves and even less behave obediently and turn into an article, part of a larger voting machine. We're not voting machines. We're not remotely guided. This is not in the nature of the party. Our Members are primarily committed to their own consciences, to their own electorates and voters, while at the same time we are aware of the responsibility we have towards the country, the responsibility we have towards the public, and also to these elections and voters. We are aware of the importance of creative and proper cooperation within the coalition. We know the value of partnership and loyalty. We believe that in this optimal balance between the right of an individual Member to express his dignity and thus his personal conviction, his opinion, his views, and his loyal attitude towards coalition partners and the Government is the essence of our new policy. With honesty and criticism and with the attitude to maintain a critical distance to everything, including our policies, we can create a relationship based on self-restraint that will strengthen this coalition in the long term. Above all, we think it is important to maintain control of the functioning of our government, based on the content that we have written together and adopted in a coalition agreement. We have listened with great attention to all candidates and candidates these days and have also asked them substantively very difficult questions. Members of the opposition who attended these presentations also know how the debate took place and how we were open, critical, demanding. Even so, either to the candidate or to the majority, from the coalition, that something "does not count" because we are also curious, critical and demanding. This was of course a compliment to us and we are very proud of it. I think our vote will be even more justified today. Where we did not get clear answers, these were very rare cases, because ideal perfection is not even in the best families, our Members expressed their opinions, including their concerns, without disguises and without specific accounts. They also expressed it by their voice and by reason of their vote. We respect every opinion and voice of every Member deeply. During the week of the presentation in the Group, we have really come to the unanimous view that the government that we are going to vote on today is a good government composed of competent and qualified ministers or made up of ministers - I hope that we will not get ahead of ourselves - such ministers and such candidates who have not avoided debates and answers. It's a good economic ministerial team. The three ministers who will take care of the economy will, in our opinion, provide good equipment for government action before the coming or expected recession. We liked to hear the word Keynesian approach, because it is about maintaining a liberal model with those urgent adjustments that allow, however, the control of economic financial flows in such a way that the social component of economic development is relatively valued and strengthened. It is clear to us that the former government, the former coalition, is not satisfied with the provision we have just proposed in the Zares Group in the law concerning borrowing abroad. We've offered the possibility of redemption of claims. This is a measure that is likely to least like those who prefer to have public money without any responsibility. These are the ones that the opposition very much likes to name several times as tycoons; the tycoons have become the strongest in the time of their last term, but now, at least we do not intend to offer them a blank menu and a chance to continue to be in debt abroad without having to charge their debts and so on to the public and to the public budget. Therefore, the amendment that became part of the law is well founded, especially at the time of a possible recession. We are particularly pleased in the Group of Members that in the Government, which we will confirm today, 5 ministers will be there, and that every two of them will be contributed by our party. However, let's be clear to all, we are not satisfied just because they are candidates for ministers, we are not satisfied because they belong to one of the two genders; we are pleased because they are qualified, competent because they represent our philosophy and our approach to the question of quotas. With us the issue of quotas is quite relative, because in the client Zares, and look - the team of ministers is really made up of two women and two men. But this was not planned, this was spontaneous, because it is an expression of evaluation of the ability and qualifications of individual members and members of our party. And there are many women who have the ability and competence to become ministers. We are pleased that the two key national resources, which have always been in the domain of men and men, are the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, now in the hands of two ministers. We are pleased that we have contributed four ministers, whom we consider to be extremely competent. We are pleased that we have also heard in the presentations the determined purpose of finally deleting the disgraceful stain, which is called 'blotted out'. With regard to cooperation with the opposition, at least two presentations, two candidates also saw the possibility of convergence, the possibility of almost unanimous cooperation. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was clear that we would have to cooperate with the opposition, because the foreign policy enshrined in the coalition agreement, which we will implement, at least in part, continues the efforts made so far by the government coalition. It is particularly about relations with neighbouring Croatia. At this point, I believe that agreement will almost necessarily be necessary, given that something that has occurred at Bled and during the previous government will be implemented, that the government and the coalition can count on the opposition's active and state-of-the-art cooperation. The Second Ministry, where there was clear unanimous support to the Minister, is the Slovenian Ministry in neighbouring countries and around the world. This is a resort that, perhaps seemingly and even in view of the fact that it has been timed at the end of these "interrogations", in narrations, these presentations, can create the wrong impression that it is less important, but it is not. Because it was at that very presentation that we came to the unanimous support of a minister who was not political, as was not a political foreign minister, and it turned out that the coalition and the opposition would be able to cooperate constructively in this area. So, let me finish. We have no reason not to believe in the success of this government. The candidates who will become ministers today are strong. We are also convinced that their performance, which was not only lax, was not an easy interpretation of a coalition agreement or a few guidelines, but was a real debate. These presentations lasted up to four and a half hours, which means that we have not avoided the debate and that we have come very far in substance. I am also pleased that one part of the opposition that has actively participated in these discussions has assessed that these candidates are going to be trusted. Of course, the field of expression is now open and is somewhere in line with that trust. Indeed, Members of Parliament, today, we will vote unitedly and confidently for such a composed government. With regard to the issue that is also being raised with regard to foreign policy and which is becoming very up to date, this is the appointment or non-name of some ambassadors, let me say that our position is clear: we have the Foreign Affairs Act adopted by the National Assembly in the previous term. We think it's necessary to respect the law. We believe that the constitutional role of the President of the Republic must be respected and respected in respect of the law. In addition, I would like to add that our group and I hope, including the opposition, as we have seen from the debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, will strive to strengthen the role of the National Assembly to such an extent that the evaluation and voting of the Committee on Foreign Policy will also be binding on the appointment of ambassadors. This is a proposal that we will submit as soon as possible to this esteemed National Assembly, which would once again establish a necessary hierarchy in the assessment and appointment of ambassadors. It is precisely because of the gap created by the reduction of the role of parliamentary bodies that strange interpretations of the Law on Foreign Affairs, as well as such difficulties, may arise where the constitutional role of the President of the Republic is being interpreted. This one's clear! And the law, as long as it's valid, is also clear. So, the voice of the Group of Ambassadors is indeed going to the government and also to the happy work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u44	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, the position will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u45	Mr Vice-President, Honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group will unanimously and unanimously support the proposed team of candidates for the new government or ministerial departments. As for the negotiations and the painful composition of the candidate list, I must say: the end is good, all good. Our client can be satisfied with this, as it will cover three ministerial departments in the government envisaged, which is even more than the calculation itself throws us, and therefore it is not true that we get change, but those who claim so do not know how to count. I must say that in doing so, our client has inspected the references and professional qualifications of the candidates, so two, the candidate for Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and the candidate for Minister for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, are not members of our party, but the conviction has prevailed that they are enough and excellent candidates for us to cover the departments that belong to us, and that they will therefore represent our colours. We are proud that we have received them and that they have accepted the candidacy and want to do what is objectively possible in times that appear to be black in accordance with the government's programme, the coalition agreement and our expectations and the client's programmes. In doing so, of course, I must say that the Group of Seven of Members will unitedly and fully support the solutions concerning the coalition agreement concerning the party's programme, which concerns the full benefit of our citizens and voters. But surely we would not support solutions and proposals that would be the principles of constitutional law or constitutional order in our country. In such cases and, of course, in cases where there are a number of things that do not concern the coalition agreement and our programme, then, of course, all our Member will have the right to decide in accordance with Article 82(1) of the Constitution, on his own conscience and on his own responsibility as a Member of all the people before the peoples, in front of the party, in front of the country, in front of the authorities and in front of the National Assembly. In doing so, our party expects an equal relationship in solving things in the coalition, both in Parliament and in the Government, and we certainly do not feel like an attachment to a coalition troika, as some overly smart journalists have told us, but we have already experienced equal treatment at the time of the negotiations and it will be the same in the future. The coalition realizes that seven of us have no majority, and that's why it can't be. We also count and promise, on our part, a correct attitude and creative cooperation wherever it is necessary. The voter's expectations are high. In doing so, our party is also aware that we will have to adapt the expectations of voters to the objective situations ahead of us, not when we defend the social state, not when we need to help all those who are struggling to live; not only, for example, pensioners or only workers, but also workers and pensioners and unemployed and all others who need our common solidarity, in particular in times that appear black and that could make solidarity a test or become questionable. But we will always want to keep it in all areas, especially social, health and well-being, which we understand so that prosperity is only when there is at least something better for all, but not for one very good, for the other, but for some nothing or less. In short, we want all of us to move forward, albeit a little slower, at the cost of maintaining social peace and some progress for the whole. As part of the delegation's powers and rights, our parliamentary group will therefore very well support the ministerial team. In doing so, she did not see that, as far as the representation of both sexes is concerned, she was brilliantly composed and we expect to work well with her and together to do something for the benefit of our electorates, our citizens and our communities as a whole. In doing so, of course, our parliamentary group wants as much success as possible in its work to the ministerial team and to the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti will present his views.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a nice hello to you all! Today is actually a big day for Slovenia. We will choose a new government, which I have no doubt will begin to work, and given that the promises were very large, this work will not be so easy. There was a lot of promise before the elections, something even after the elections, and if I remember only the thousands of euros' pensions or the double basic salary at the end of the term, which somehow reminds me of the time when someone promised 100,000 new jobs, that was not done. But we will see how ministers and ministers will act, how the team will be led by President Pahor, and, of course, the opposition will look intently at this work, evaluate the work and transport to the extent that we will definitely support what is good, at least in the Slovenian National Party, which will be bad - we will oppose. Today, I'm not going to talk about the names of ministers and ministers. I'm going to talk about problems that arise in these matters. Surely one of the worst things today is the issue of tycoons. Taiwanation did not begin within the 2004-2008 mandate, did not start in 2000, it started in 1992. Since then, tycoonization has spread and has become boisterous. Then Smelt disappeared to an unknown place, and since then the collapse of the Slovenian economy has begun, which has been successful until today. Therefore, I think that the President of the Government will have a lot of work to do to instill further tycunization, not only in parties not in his circle that are not in the coalition circle, but mainly in parties that are within the coalition; in a membership that was also his party's many times only for his own benefit. In this work we will absolutely help him, because we feel that the Slovenian state must not suffer that someone will be "basing" his pockets and filling "vamp" with the work of other people, with the work of those who will pay for it all together. That is why we were also in the Slovenian National Party against that law, which talked about guarantees and the purchases of bad claims, because we consider that the marriage was badly written. Perhaps today, like my colleagues from the party, I was a little encouraged by the implementation of the President of the Government, who said that there would be a number of other acts under the law, because without these acts, some would be even richer and Slovenia would be even poorer together with its inhabitants. That's why we're expecting what happens and when these submarital acts will be. There will certainly be a need to revise the various gifts of the Roman Catholic Church, which took place in all the mandates, and whose beginning was in fact the greatest gift Drnovšek gave to the Roman Catholic Church, this is the Vatican Agreement. A number of laws have been adopted in violation of laws, and this needs to be rectified. There's a lot to revise. The Roman Catholic Church became the largest official in Slovenia. And according to wealth, to percentages of wealth, and according to national income, this is one of the largest multinationals in the world if we compare what is happening within Slovenia. We're gonna have to fix things here. Where the riches were obtained in an illegal, illegal, unconstitutional way, these matters must be corrected and returned to the people what is national. After all, the Church deals with souls, at least we should. In Slovenia, however, he deals mainly with wealth and money, if not only. When we talk about wealth and wealth, we must not pass the erased. The so-called deleted, which the coalition intends to grant immediately, some permits, citizenship, possibly also pensions. According to how these deleted ones -- they call themselves that -- consider themselves to be about 18,000. 18,000 pensions, especially with the interest they're already preparing to recover, will bring a huge sum. What a general of the former Yugoslav army is counting on about a million euros. 18,000 times a million euros, imagine where we are! That is why I can already point out here to the Government that if it goes into some extreme matters, if this issue is not addressed by "ad personam", from the case to the case, because we are allowing some mistakes, if this does not happen, I am already predicting civil disobedience and another referendum, which we will give to Slovenian people along with the opposition. For those who have been against our independence, against our independence, cannot now receive for this prize and significantly more money than the people who have worked here, and after all more than 200,000 people who are not Slovenian nationalities who have made the right decision in those times. We're not gonna let that happen! And if the government goes in this direction, they will have very strong opponents in the Slovenian National Party. However, there will certainly be something to be done on the issue of Croatia. Above all, it will be necessary to replace those historical and I do not know what professional commissions led by Dr. Pogačnik, which work mainly for their own pocket, but not for the Slovenian country. Unlike Croatian experts who work, as they told me for free for their country. Some of us do this for yachts, for good cars and things like that. It is high time that this was stopped, and if this has been tolerated by all previous governments, this government must no longer be tolerated. Of course, there is still a number of questions to be asked in this regard. After all, the Adriatic Sea has never been Croatia in history. It was Yugoslav and we did not consider who, what, why, and what part would belong to anyone, but Croats simply smoked Slovenian politicians, virtually to this day. It is true that there was one Brijuni agreement concluded by Janša and Sanader, where the starting points were set on the day of our independence, but Croatia does not take this into account, so I also advise the government not to agree to blackmailing the European Union, which thinks nothing but its own benefits, some policies only about its own personal benefits. And if Mrs Doris Pack has received an honorary doctorate in Zadar to work for the Croats, and if Mr Pöttering has received the highest Croatian medal to help the Croats, and if Mr Swododa has received this, that, third and Bildt, and also Olli Rehn, and so on and so on, and I don't know who else, we have to stop with these people blackmailing us. And we must not forget history, after all, Serbia and Serbia's foreign minister announced days ago that they would press charges against Croats in Europe and that they would take account of all the historical truths since World War II, from the start of World War II on. We'd just forget about it. The denunciation of Croatia has not been carried out and their operation is in this direction and we must not let that happen. In order not only to talk about this, there may be another comment here that the term of the Austrian State Treaty should no longer be used. This is a state treaty on Austria, because Austria is not a party to this treaty. The allies, who won World War II, agreed on what would happen to future Austria. And we also need to know here that without the Slovenian partisans this Austria would not be. Because in 1943, in Moscow, they decided that Austria, as their country, would exist only if it could prove an anti - Nazi or anti - Fascist struggle. And only the Slovenian partisans fought against this evil. You can go to Vienna to the military museum to see, even the hall is dedicated to Slovenian partisans because they know that we are the ones on the basis of which the fighting was to be established by Austria. So, a little more uprightness. If all the current governments have not succeeded in this rebellion, let this government have it. We'll help with whatever we can. After all, we also know what to do, and we also know where to do what to do. There's gonna be a hell of a job waiting for this government to clean up the ministries. The ministries are overloaded with poor personnel. During his term of office, each brought his own people, and the previous ones were merely preserved. That's why things multiplied and instead of the public administration shrinking and remaining only good personnel, there are now covers that sell each other and hand over certain charters, no one signs anything, rather than the matter of "laufala" and that would be done impractically, exactally and quickly, essentially translate paper from cup to cup. I think it's gonna be hard work, but I'm sure the government can count on our help here as well. I also hope that the Minister of the Interior will undertake a number of criminal acts, including in the field of economic crime and particularly in the field of drug trafficking, in order to do something. Since 1992, Slovenia has been the only country in Europe where drug use has not been sanctioned. Probably because the former LDS wanted it that way, because this marriage was under consideration, it kind of screwed up. Just like it's done a lot of things. After all, I think it makes sense for good proposals, regardless of where they come from, to be taken into account and to be used by the Government, to be implemented into their laws. Of course, not to hit his mark then, but to say honestly where it came from. After all, we cannot help but fear on the one hand that this will continue because the candidate for Minister, Mrs Kresalova, said that the LDS is all that the SNS is not. At the same time, she has already presented two of our ideas as her own, namely the abolition of a removal jail, when, say, a drunk driver is stopped and shut down and reduced his sentence. I mean, I'm glad she used this, like, a projection of some change, which is right and smart, but let's say where does any matter come from. Even when it comes to deciding ambassadors, I would like to congratulate really on going back to what we once had, because it was the LDS, headed by Mr Kacin, that put an end to it. It's my own business again. Congratulations, you've missed it! The Slovenian national party had already stood in that position, but it was wrong and it was not good. There's definitely gonna be a lot of work to be done. There's gonna be a lot of work to be done. We will help here, but we will be very critical, very meticulous. Of course, that is why the government will be unanimously confirmed today. There's just one last thing. I think that it would be very reasonable, including due to the greater operationality of the Government, Slovenian Parliamentarianism in general and the National Assembly, to consider the abolition of the State Council as soon as possible. We have nothing to do with him, but the costs are high. One more time, to finish. We will support this government and I want the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, a successful work and all the help we can get. As far as development partnership is concerned. We welcome this idea, we think it's a good idea, we need to continue and we'll be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we listened to the presentations of the candidates for ministers and ministers with all the required responsibility for the current situation and the problem that is knocking on our door. We have carefully examined the coalition treaty and, in its light, and our basic programme and direction, have prepared for individual ministerial areas and candidates for ministers. During the presentations and additional questions and answers, we have obtained most of the information and guidance needed for our decision-making on the labour market. We have assessed the candidates for ministers individually: as individuals, as experts, as politicians, that is, as people who, as individuals with the presentation and answers to questions, have convinced us that they are capable or not of leading the ministries professionally and properly. Some candidates have also given us a positive surprise at their presentations and responses. According to some of the coalition treaties, the positions and orientations recorded were almost certain in advance that we would not give them support. Later, in their individual definitions, they deviated from the ideas advocated by the Coalition Treaty, which so strongly pierced our party and the Group of Members. However, before us, the ministerial team in the package as a whole is limited and directed by written ideas and solutions. What can we say about this package in terms of concept and content as a whole? In the Slovenian People's Party, in particular, we note that centralism is at all levels of this package, and more or less in all areas, if we take as a starting point only the area of local self-government and regional development. After all, a ministerial team is extremely centralistic. In the Slovenian People's Party, we doubt that the best personnel come only from the central part of Slovenia. In fact, we strongly believe in the opposite. There is also the problem of relations with the Republic of Croatia. The views of the Slovenian People's Party on this issue are clear and we will insist on them. Another major problem of this package is total non-response in our opinion and no willingness to immediately adapt the newly created situation. I am talking about everything that is already well known for its economic and financial crisis. Given that the content of the coalition contract was written in other times, this government team would expect ad hoc modification of that, and there was not much of it. And if this team doesn't know whether or not it seems necessary to adapt the coalition contracts to the emerging global economic circumstances, we don't have any basis to believe that this government team will be able to adapt its actions and adopt quick and real solutions even on a daily basis. Above all, it seems to us that the entire content of the coalition agreement is wrongly laid down. At the time in which we are located, it would be responsible for the mandate holder and the government team to lead the entire content to reduce the costs of the state apparatus, if you want, including saving. Let's not say a word about that. There was nothing more important about this at any of the hearings. Expensiveness and waste are felt, which is dangerous, especially at the time when saving should take first place. We are disappointed in the SLS about such an approach. Instead of setting an example in these difficult times, the government coalition is expanding the government with another ministry and is thus infuriating the state administration. In order to avoid any confusion, we support the establishment of the Ministry of Slovenians in place and around the world, and it would be possible to bring together several other ministries, thus reducing the number by at least two. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! In all the statements we have made these days, we have not evaluated individual candidates for ministers or ministers. We will be able to do this in a few moments when the first proposals and the visible result of their work will be known. We welcome today's presentation of you, Mr President of the Government, in particular our support for the idea of a partnership for development. If we are invited, we will, Mr President of the Government, be actively involved in this. We will not support a ministerial team in the Slovenian People's Party. A coalition is responsible for electing the government. However, we guarantee that the government and the government coalition will not oppose but the Priory at every step and every solution. Especially if we find that the solutions are good for Slovenian citizens and citizens and for the country of Slovenia. We also expect the Prime Minister and the President of the Government and the incoming government team not to reject all the initiatives and proposals of the Slovenian People's Party and our parliamentary group if we jointly assess that they can contribute to the common good and progress of all of us. The new government will start work today, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, I wish it a successful work for the benefit and well-being of the country of Slovenia and its citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much. All parliamentary groups have presented their views. That is why we are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members, following a statement you sent to yesterday. The first one has the word Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Commissioner, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to address, in particular, the areas of internal affairs and justice with two aspects, for the first time in terms of the coalition agreement and for the second time in terms of the presentation of both candidates or candidates. I must say that, as far as the coalition agreement is concerned, this applies relatively briefly to both areas, both internal affairs and justice, but in this agreement I am relatively disturbed by those dictions that say "coaliciary partners we commit ourselves to examine the change, the need to amend the law on police, the need to amend this law" or, say, the law, or the powers of municipal radars. I am deeply convinced, at least so we have done that the time of study, the time of analysis, the acquisition of data is opposition time. However, the time of investment is probably the time of action, the time of what we call answers to questions, what people in particular expect, not analysis. From this point of view, the situation is simply so simple that answers are needed. That's what I was gonna say. In the area of internal affairs, there is talk about changing or analysing the situation and abolishing certain organisational units that are currently duplicating each other. As far as I'm aware of internal affairs, there's no duplication, but you're predicting the establishment of two new organizational units. That means, that would be a double. But what we're worried about in the area of internal affairs is not only worrying, disturbing or anything, but something worse is that you intend to do it immediately, I understand on Monday, to start issuing so-called supplementary decisions deleted. Four years ago or more ago, the people at the referendum said how they felt about it. I think you're going against the will of the people. People didn't know that on September 21st, so they would have told them that. If I touch a candidate for the minister, by the way, she's not here today practically all day, except for the adoption of the agenda. I hope he's at least listening to me. I must say, I regard her performance as an incompetent performance. In particular, it bothered me that she did not know how to answer some questions, such as stopping Croatia's gradual progress towards Slovenian territory. We have put an end to this mandate. Hotiza is a case like this. Her walking from the seat of the President of the National Assembly to the Foreign Minister, and at the end of the Interior Minister, I find her suspicious. Eight years ago, when Dr. Jambrek invited me to the post of Secretary of State for Home Affairs, after 25 years of work on internal affairs, I said, "I have to sleep one night before I do this kind of work." That's... that's... that's... Justice. Let me be relatively brief. Family courts shall operate from 1 January or are already established, that is only as a comment. As far as the amendments to the Penal Code are concerned. I am deeply confident, and we will also support the minor technical inconsistencies or any other things that the candidate has been talking about. However, if there is something hidden in the coalition agreement that would limit the abolition or mitigation of conditions, if I say so, or measure those economic crimes, corruption crimes and so on, of course we will not support it. This needs to be made clear. It's a court order. I am sorry to say this, but in part the President of our party has already mentioned this letter from Mr Zalar. And of course I believe in the solution to the sentence immediately. We would expect the verdict to be resolved on Monday, as the coalition agreement states that you will determine the salaries of the judges in the agreement with them. I hope and expect that, not in principle, everyone should contribute as much as he can and get what he needs. The judges could have made that decision in agreement with you. Of course, to conclude, I cannot go beyond a very clear electronic message, which means co-organising a court sentence for me and to a large extent walking on the brink of the crime of inciting the abuse of an official position. I am sorry, Commissioner, that you did not decide to listen to our party's invitation yesterday. He was primarily thought of as a contribution to a better government, not as a guess of opposition. Good luck! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My voice is the voice of another Bohinj in this high house of the National Assembly. The first vote was none other than the age of Slovenian politics, Slovenian democracy, the voice of Dr. Francet Bučar. Why am I saying this? Mainly because Bohinj was hit by heavy rain last year, on 18 September, and it damaged Bohinj and the surrounding area. For nine days Bohinj was cut off from the world and from many other things. Ministers Janez Podobnik, Radovan Žerjav, Karl Erjavec and Milan Zver responded immediately to the invitation of the Mayor of Bohinj municipality, Mr. Franz Kramar. With their presence, they wanted and also helped Bohinj. On behalf of the Bohinj people, I now thank these ministers for their assistance in this place. A good voice must also be heard in this National Assembly. But it's not as nice as I said. In October, the Ministry of Health, Bohinj, which is the fourth largest municipality in Slovenia, took away our health service. I firmly believe that the new minister will respect the rights acquired and that he will give it back to us. But there were new times, and on September 21st, there were elections, and people decided as they did. I firmly believe that the Prime Minister of the Government has chosen a quality and good team. And I want a successful job for this team, of course, as the President of the Government has said at his presentation, together we will succeed. I'd be happy to support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Kres, I skipped Mr. Lucky Friend. Apologies, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Commissioner Borut Pahor! As has already been said, the Slovenian National Party will support you, but, if I am allowed, let me mention a few more things that we expect you to take up the matter first. We are pleased that you have mentioned the social dialogue as a major topic, which you are giving as much attention to as possible, but we would like to remind you of the fact that we have been proposing one of the extraordinary meetings that has already spoken about poverty in the previous term. At the time, we closed our eyes and actually said nice words, but 250,000 people who live on social transfers are no longer the number that should be an extraordinary meeting. An even greater number of those dependent on social transfers are forecast. And so, Commissioner, I would like us to look at in the future how these people, those who work, you know, have no chance to survive normally, to be able to come from the beginning of the month at the end of the month with their receipts. And if we look at our wages, we can claim to be more creative than the Germans, but we don't have German wages. Our taxes are European and the burden on our salaries is in the upper comparable order to European burdens. We're gonna have to do something here, too. And maybe one piece of advice. All that stolen money from companies that have been estranged in so-called tycoon affairs, which my President has already been talking about, can quickly return to the place of alienation. And this money can be very good for new development projects in companies that will never be able to implement these projects. As has already been said, corruption and customerism are the wounds of our society and we will therefore have to deal with Europe's most serious methods. I hope that you will also seriously establish the bodies necessary for such a prosecution, namely the police, the special group of prosecutors and others. The former government has made it clear that it knows whose yachts and villas are, and I don't think you'll have any hard work in this area. But there's another segment that I want to expose myself to. Slovenia is losing quite a market share because it has not acceded to what it should have done. Since we are a transit country, one year ago in the National Assembly we accepted very large obligations and imposed them on citizens and citizens. We have passed a guarantee law to rent loans for a thorough rehabilitation of railway infrastructure. In a year and a half, we didn't do anything. We are losing very large opportunities, and they are also, as has already been said, becoming an island in the middle of Europe. We could make more money, including with this advantage that this geostrategic position of Slovenia offers us. And, last but not least, a respected mandate-holder will also need to overlook the functioning of the Court and the Kad. I've learned from the Kosovo Commission that the police have papers on who went to sell the general shipping money, and I believe it's not the only crime. And I will be happy to ask Mrs Kresal to take the police's hand, to make it manifest in fact, and to bring it to light, as has been the case with the SCT. The crime is a cancer wound to our society, especially economics, and also to the financial discipline of the country, which owes quite a few citizens, I would like to remind you. What the State is obliged to pay with at least the same zeal as it collects from citizens when they owe it to it. And let him admit the same interest, and he'll be done a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u57	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished others present, distinguished Mr President of the Government. You have already heard the position of the Slovenian People's Party in the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. However, I must say that the presentations I attended do not exactly agree with all the paragraphs written in this coalition agreement, which I think is perfectly fine, and this has given me one such positive note. And given the quality of the questions I got, I made a better decision about my point of view. I am also pleased that most candidates are experiencing positive energy. I have a feeling that they can listen, and I hope that they will do so in the future. I see this especially in the light of good travel for the coming time. Regardless of the fact that we will not support the government, we will not oppose it in the future, but I expect this attitude from the government. At the presentation, I also touched on questions about the situation of the so-called deleted. May I remind you that on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party at its meeting on 9 December 2003, Mr Malovra said that we do not oppose the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Slovenian People's Party, but we oppose its implementation. We still believe that we can resolve this through constitutional law and individual treatment. I also drew attention to the situation or issue of the problem of war casualties. I am aware that this is a very sensitive issue both for the country and for these victims. And I think it's going to be one big theme, one tough topic where it's going to take a lot of knowledge and good will. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, there is little to add to Mr Jelinčič. I would add one thing that Slovenia can take advantage of its position as a member both in NATO and in the EU, not with the agreement of some questionable leaders of these integrations, but with this membership and with the levers we have. Let us remember how we too had to do many things before we could enter this community. We're worried about centralism. We're worried about the centralism of the branch on high levels. The government team comes most of the way from downtown. We are in the Slovenian People's Party against centralism. We believe that we need to create or maintain a positive trend in the balanced development of the country, which is already present in this last government. It must be said that the municipalities, with Ljubljana at the head, also need rural areas. And even this congregation, these centers wouldn't be what they are. When we decided on our own country, I imagined that the country would develop evenly. Here, in the last period, as I mentioned, there has been a shift, and I have also imagined an even distribution of both good and bad. Whether that's true or not, that's another story. All of this, however, stems from people who have had a major influence in the past on the leadership of this country, and because of the immoral transfer of capital, at least I have this feeling, they still have a very strong influence. And I'm wondering if we're on the verge of having capital in this country take over. I hope and wish that my fear is unjustifiable and I would appeal that we do not allow this, because this government that has completed its mandate has already begun these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In recent days, we have had the opportunity to listen to the presentations and answers to the questions you have proposed for the composition of the new government. I have been very careful whether their presentations and responses will follow what you say as Prime Minister of the Government, in particular with the view that Slovenia will not respond to this global financial and economic crisis with some social passivity, but with an intensive approach to research, development, economic development incentives, which means that we can help ourselves in a way that we can believe in our staff, our knowledge, and that we will invest most of our powers and that such development will build the attributes of the social state. I must say that the presentation of candidates and candidates for ministers has followed this idea of yours, so I am pleased that this government will have such action as the starting point. Of course, good individuals do not necessarily make up a good team. And since I am an athlete, sports experience shows that many of the good clubs that have the greatest stars in their ranks then fall against teams that express significantly more hearts, significantly more homogeneity. And I think it will be your duty to strengthen this homogeneity within this team to reduce or balance any of the statements of individual candidates that may have been thrown out, supported by ambition and drive, to arrange on some of their departments more than possible the real possibility of allowing. I would like to say that the Liberal Democracy has been constructively involved both in the preparation of the coalition agreement and in the construction of your team. Although perhaps the numerical representation itself shows that it is not exactly possible to detect satisfaction in purely arithmetical work in the LDS, and we want to say that we trust the people you have included in your government, i.e. those who are state-favouring. And the point on economic development, the technological breakthrough and the provision of a social state will be conditioned by the fact that we will be able to upgrade democratic values in Slovenian society. This means that we will be able to respect human rights, fundamental human freedoms, for democracy is fundamental if most people can handle minority issues. And here we are aware of our participation in this government and we want to be a successful part of your team, which I am sure will follow what you are talking about, that it will demonstrate its willingness to engage in social dialogue, because in the past term it was the weakness of the past government. For it was precisely in the absence of dialogue that Parliament was faced when we were before the situation of different positions and where the argument of power prevailed, not the power of argument. Here I would like to place on your heart that you will use wisdom as a way of leading, and that there will be in Parliament such marriage solutions that will follow integration, appropriate solutions, and to the satisfaction of the widest possible circle. It also seems to me that it makes sense to take into account the experience we have so far. Most of the parties we are sitting here today have already exchanged both the opposition and the coalition role. Very quickly the roles turn out and many times then we see the way the statements are cut when we are in one role or another. That is why I think it makes sense to cultivate this call for dialogue, that is, to seek common solutions where these solutions also from opposition types suggest that they will be better. We stand by ourselves both at the governmental and parliamentary levels so that we can make this effort. This seems extremely important to me for a simple reason, for good solutions are then reaped in life by all. I will support the government and your ministerial team because I believe you have bold plans that also reflect courage. The courage displayed in betting on knowledge and that you will know how to follow ambitions, that we will indeed increase funds for education, science and development. This is enshrined in the coalition agreement and I wish this to be true. Of course, I would also like to see the ambition to implement a health reform in the field of health. The old legislation of the previous century speaks of the fact that many things have happened in health care, that there is a need on the part of patients, that desire on the part of operators is great, and that there will be a need to find here solutions that will actually enable effective health care and, of course, a universal approach to health services for all, regardless of how many people are under the thumb. Dear Mr. President of the Government! I think you suggested a good team. In doing so, I would like you to have a lot of wisdom in coordinating the different ambitions of individual departments for the benefit of what we expect from the Slovenian public. This is that the government, which today, I am sure, will be able to respond to fundamental developmental dilemmas. With regard to the criticism and the opposition, it is clear that the LDS in the government is also proposing a candidate who is supposed to be a weak member, I would like to say in defence only that Mr Zalar, in his presentation, is not an LDS with a public statement, has explained exactly what is being said to him. I think it would be right for these contents to be carefully examined, read, because I think that in this way these criticisms, which the opposition is still referring to today, and thus also to your address, would be unjustifiable. I'm closing up and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Borut Pahor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I reasoned my vote for Mr Pahor, then Borut Pahor, I had quite a few reasons to justify it. After a careful presentation of the candidates for ministers, I have already been answered to a number of questions, so I believe that the promises made by him and by the candidates were very clear, very responsible. I must say, I look forward to seeing this new four years. I immediately heard from my colleague Janša's mouth today that there is no recession. I can't judge whether or not it is. But I guess I've already heard today or yesterday that these monthly wages are going to be smaller, because in factories, some productions have been reduced by working days. That those who work for a certain period of time will also lose their jobs. Most of these are young people, who are not the last ones to survive from month to month from year to year. Then judge for yourself whether it is a recession or not. But it is that things are changing and that the times ahead are also responsible. I'm not going to talk about the difficulty, but the times for a lot of people are tight and nothing to be happy about. Let me mention just two of the presentations that I have left very much in my memory, and especially because I think I will not, after all, monitor both sources. Health is the economic and social development of our society and, as such, not least the first chapter of attention that the future government will also have before it. And Mr Miklavčič's candidate for Minister is clear, transparent, responsible with all the responsibility, with the data he has very boldly argued this. He did not plant flowers in the garden or, lastly, castles in the clouds, he also made it very clear that health savings are also due to good cooperation between institutions, overlaps or drawing public funds, especially because health is our wealth. We will remain in all the rights of health care and public health and pay particular attention to the elderly. And because of this we will not increase our budget much, because the reserves are in rationalisation and in organisation of work. And that I believed Mr Miklavčič well, they speak his reviews, his work, his results in the past. The former government, in cooperation with him, managed to recover the debt, and he himself and his team upgraded that the debt is no longer available today and that the health checkbook is full. That is why I was sitting with three colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party last week and we were united and also said that we would support health, regardless of which side we came from, because this was our promise, which we made to the voters, that Mr Miklavčič was proposed or elected by four votes. That is why I did not create a illusion when the presentation of the candidate for the Minister of Culture was to receive any support, even though we know that her presentation was also very concrete and, above all, was based on a good knowledge of the field of work and not least of its past, as she was already working at the Ministry of Culture. In particular, it highlighted the autonomy of the media and the "non-inclusion" of politics in the media. We very rarely believed her, especially because she is a strong person and because she has a great internship in the National Assembly and because a vow has been made, the one at the time of the campaign, and also the one we speak in the National Assembly, a promise that cannot be swallowed up and must be fulfilled. Therefore, I was not surprised by the vote and also by all the accusations against her. But I believe she will keep her promises very seriously. Finally, we too are here, who will often ask or find out about these promises. I was also very surprised by the promise, not to involve the authorities in the recruitment process when presenting her candidacy, because she received a question about what she felt about the candidates for directors in the future and the current public institutions when we were talking about NUK, Drama. The question was also about the person responsible for the third radio programme. We know that Radiotelevision Slovenia is an independent public institution that has its own organisation of work and is self-sufficient. That is why, of course, such a question is very inappropriate. But it can point to other moments or other actions, reflections that have taken place in the past. The candidates who have been elected are the team, the team of gentlemen, the first in this row, the Prime Minister, who I believe will also be all his promises here, when he came to agree that the times before us are responsible and not easy for all Slovenians, after the cooperation of all of us. If we make promises just like that, dear colleagues, giving them to everyone on the ground in general, then it will probably be harder for us to work. However, I believe that those who are bound by the promise of voters in the elections, and we also have this confidence, are sitting in the National Assembly today, which will be difficult to eat, because, finally, after our elections, there will be new elections, new promises and voters are the ones who will also judge. I believe that the team is good, young, capable, but especially with a large degree of balance in the profession and also in politics. And that's what every government has to be. I therefore have no doubts that I would not support any individual in this government. That is why we are also monitoring and actively participating in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Mr President of the Government and, of course, all colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to use a few words myself in an area that I'm also covering on the committee. It's culture and education. I'll go to school first. To the candidate for Minister of Education and Sport, I asked about 30 questions. And to all the problems that I have raised with these questions, he has answered that he agrees with them. And here comes a special paradox. The problems I've opened stem from a coalition contract that he helped write himself. It is said that in good works, it does not agree with its own coalition contract. Unfortunately, we have also opened up the issue of flatness, generality, impreciseness and, of course, the non-taxability of the coalition treaty on other committees. Malone on all boards. To answer that question, we have once again received a very interesting thought that we are counting the branches of the coalition treaty. However, the coalition treaty is your common constitution. That's something we're judging you about today that we've prepared questions for your candidates. And if the questions were answered differently, as stated in the Coalition Treaty, of course, we consider it to be in some way inconsistent, and in some ways even null. Actually, it's too much. Coalition contracts, if I'm radical, you don't have to. All you need is candidates. And this has been confirmed in many hearings, as today in the National Assembly many MEPs have said this completely unwittingly. One, even if it seems very good to him, that the candidate did not stick to what was said in the coalition contract. So what are we judging about? The second thing I'd like to mention is a candidate for the Minister of Culture. Undisputedly, he's a highly qualified person, and it would be hard to find a better one. However, in the past, let's say, with temperament, she achieved that the conversation between the Ministry of Culture and her was, so to speak, a four-year argument. This was an argument about everything and everyone who was involved on this or that side. I asked her questions about her priorities. She said that everything she was going to do and that all the problems she opened and wanted to fix were her priorities. However, further discussions were taking place around at least two to three priorities. It was the longest conversation ever. One is the media law, the other is the RTV law. That's gonna change, that's her priority. There's a lot of trouble here. One of these laws was passed by referendum. And not only was there a terrible dispute between the candidate and the ministry about this law, but this argument will continue. The next thing she thinks is priority is Lipica. It's not just those golf holes, it's a lot in Lipica. Lipica has experienced a development that she has never experienced in the last four years. The horses were in the past months and months in the barn, during piles of manure, sick. It's not like that anymore. They didn't even have a vet at work there. Horses are healthy now, fed up, things are changing. The loss of the hotel is now settled. Lipica's on her way. She's on her way. But we have heard that everything around Lipica will have to be changed. I must say, I'm not happy with this choice of candidate. I'm not happy that the fight will continue. It's a kind of rematch. This is a countermeasure against the previous functioning of the Minister and the Ministry, and I therefore do not think that this is productive for culture. Of course, there is another way. She can be picked up by the minister, after all, she's an expert, and I want you to convince her that she will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will also say a few short sentences myself to justify my support to both the government's President and the team and the coalition agreement. I think, as far as the team is concerned, there can be no particular doubt that there is a sufficient number of people within it who can act with appropriate expertise and other skills, and that this team is complemented with people who are also needed, with people who, therefore, guarantee political authority, will provide political assurance that what has been adopted will also be able to be realized, with the support of the parties involved in the coalition. What is encouraging to me seems to have been said in the beginning today, with the words that I am repeating so freely that we are all looking together for a way out of the crisis as we know it now, and from what is likely to be a difficult prospect for us in the coming months and years. In particular, this "all" and "together" are what is also written on the first page of the coalition agreement, which contains an invitation to participate. This may be one of those changes that will have a beneficial impact on our work and decisions that we will make in the National Assembly. I myself believe that the obvious fact that this treaty or coalition agreement is very general is, to a large extent, true. I can say that, on one occasion, I have made a great deal of fun of myself and, with many paragraphs starting with how we are going to study something, I have suggested that we might still have the nineteenth Ministry to study the problems that we have brought down, but this also has another side. This, however, may also have the effect of not rushing into numbers that we would like to be attracted to and employ. Or so that others can constantly remind us that there is not yet any number realized or that perhaps there will never be. Especially now that we see circumstances changing from day to day, our commitments must probably be loose enough to be able to follow these changes in the environment in which we live. And we cannot influence everything on our own, for there are many determinants that come from elsewhere, which we cannot really influence in a fraction. One other thing is, apart from this dialogue, the political and social which is promising, at least offering, I hope that it will not remain only in the declarations and that it will sometimes be possible to measure the effects on these declarations, which is, therefore, another such thing, which is kind of encouraging to me. Environmental dialogue is offered. Those who listened to the various ministers and ministers at the time, whether you had read reports on what they were saying, you could see that a whole range of candidates and candidates were talking about commitments they also made in the field of environmental protection. And what I do get out of this, whether it was a candidate in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry or Food, either at the Ministry of Development, or at the Ministry of Economy, or at the Transport Ministry or at the Environment Ministry, is the following: between the economy and development, on the one hand, and the protection of the environment, ecology, if I say simply, there are no exclusionary dimensions. So we need to understand this as a dialogue of all these departments, not just the Government's dialogue with non-governmental organisations, but also dialogue within the spheres. It is unlikely that if we understand this dialogue, one ministry will write a law and let the other check whether it agrees or not. This environmental responsibility will in fact have to be organic. So that everyone, when planning either policies or strategies in their field, will also have in mind the way that everything has to be environmentally sustainable. There's probably something missing in the coalition agreement. I do. For example, this requirement for a low entropy society, for a society that would be less wasteful, which can only be achieved by changing culture, our thinking patterns, our values. That's probably too much written down or too much missing. And there is a lack of courage to talk about how we will get closer to other developed European countries in the areas of monitoring, directing mass flows and energy flows. Today we do not really hope to speak properly because we fear the local committee, where we will, and how we will manage waste disposal. And we do not hope to talk about how the energy contained by heat treatment could be transformed into a useful economic category, which can also mean development. Although there are some shortcomings, I think that this team has committed itself to environmentally sustainable development and has also decided to resist those who are too rigid in various ministries as experts in their field and with their decisions restrict development potentials. Whether we succeed or not, we'll see in the coming years. And I hope that these words, which we have written in the agreement, will turn into programmes, into projects that we will be able to implement. That is why I am voting for this government to team up and to implement the programmes it has set up in the agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u67	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, Honourable Mr. President-in-Charge! The general general views and expectations of the Slovenian National Party have already been said by my colleague from the party. However, I would like to take this opportunity, although I have only 4 minutes to say something about the expectations of Slovenes and Slovenians from the northeastern part of Slovenia, which is quite far from Ljubljana and unfortunately is also going back to development. We expect a lot from this government. So far, everything has remained more or less at the declaration level. There has been a lot of talk about the fair, even, harmonious development of all regions in Slovenia, the talk has been that Slovenia can only be as strong as the strongest link in the chain and that these areas in northeastern Slovenia will develop fairly. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. We expect from the new government, and especially from the ministries most responsible for the development of this area, for example, the agriculture ministry, economic, financial, and, last but not least, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the family and work, to act interresorably, it is said that this will be a joint action to remedy this critical situation in northeastern Slovenia. This is already so critical that it is already embarrassing for the country, a country that boasts high growth in economic development and, on the other hand, the picture in this region is very sad. We expect the most from the agricultural ministry because it is an agricultural area and has already started to deteriorate, so that demographic trends become so negative, so devastating that the social situation of older, poor farmers in particular is already so critical that it is embarrassing for the European country. Of course, only the Agriculture Ministry could not solve these matters. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Financial Affairs is also responsible here. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Work and the Family also has a lot to do. The blame is happening in this area, in social transfers, in social assistance, in family allowances, incredibly much. Certain groups of the population are privileged and benefit from the title, under the terms "socialisation", all these social transfers, so that they live pleasantly. In the meantime, those who want to work do not have a job or show them anything good. It is impossible for a part of the population to be given social assistance, but they have never worked, as for those who have worked after 20, 30 years and remain in this unenviable social situation, and even give them social support, for no administrative bureaucratic reason. It's just one thing. There are many things here, even the health ministry should do more, to solve a number of problems that we have already discussed on the committees. The Ljubljana people in the Ljubljana region claim that they have few doctors. Then we calculated that there would be 360.2 doctors in the Ljubljana region per 100,000 inhabitants, while 160 doctors would arrive in the Pomur region per 100,000 inhabitants. That's a lot less than here. Thus, health care is appropriately poor, as is investment itself, investing in our area. I hope that this will change, because we must all be proud if we are to make the country a country equally developed, equally strong and fairer. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Hello, Prime Minister! The coalition contract is very general. It also mainly enables the implementation of the programme of the Slovenian People's Party, and I believe that the programmes of the other parliamentary parties as well. Since we have experience in government work, we know that traps are hidden in detail. That is why I must say that I have closely monitored the presentations of ministerial candidates. The Prime Minister is proposing to us his new team. I am not sure that he has assessed the managerial and managerial skills of the proposed candidates well enough in this regard. I'm afraid everyone doesn't have enough. Some surprised me positively, gave them support, and I will be happy to cooperate with them and support their good solutions. Unfortunately, though, in the presentations I found quite a few announced solutions that I am deeply concerned about. In the time available to me for this debate, I will not be able to stress everything. In particular, I would like to highlight the area of education and sport. The minister's candidate announced that he would restore the reputation of teachers by providing them with more places in the world of the institution. Is it not the most important for the teacher’s reputation to measure the quality of his work, which can only be measured by the satisfaction of the children, their parents, and the ability of children and future adults to overcome the specific and service obligations and problems they face in the future? Teachers must create their reputation through professional work and the development of values. Surveillance is one of the world’s most important tasks, and this should be done by independent and impartial experts from the country, the congregation, and parents. In particular, the role of municipalities as founders will have to be resolved. They are responsible under the current regime for ensuring the conditions for school work and have no real impact on the implementation of programmes and the establishment of spatial standards. They're determined by the state. That's why they're facing big problems. Would it not show the congregations to increase their influence in sacred institutions? There's something else about reputation. Do you think it makes sense that you will increase the reputation of teachers by introducing a permanent term of office to directors? I can't imagine how a candidate for a minister will overcome conflicts of interest at such points. Maybe it's an area of culture. The candidate did not convince me by her presentation that she would be sufficiently committed to the preservation of the Slovenian language. Amateur amateur culture, which is an important pillar of Slovenian confidence and the quality of life of many Slovenes, hardly mentions. I'm afraid he doesn't know the situation in which different cultural societies operate, especially in the countryside. The maintenance and construction of cultural homes, which we have built voluntarily, must be restored today. Various commissions responding to calls do this unfairly. And I think that many times we should go to some other end of Slovenia and look at these things and then really evaluate them. In my opinion, the government's responsibility to implement the European Capital of Culture project in 2012 is under-exposed. In this regard, I also point out that ministerial candidates are not aware of their responsibilities in the implementation of the University of Maribor project. Cooperation with civil society. You state that you will strengthen cooperation with civil society. At the same time, you do not recognize the role and rights of the Catholic Church in our society. Are we not members of the Roman Catholic Church of the largest civil society organization in our country? Traffic. It was not convincing to us to answer the question of when will the second passenger terminal at the Maribor airport come to life, how will the continuation of the construction of the highway cross in particular Slivnica-Drazenci and the construction of the third development axis. How will the financing of the Republic, local and local roads, which have been severely damaged in the construction of motorways, be regulated? In the presentation, you do not mention the importance of the regime of the cadastral and ownership of the land through which roads are carried out. Do you even know that most of the roads are still on land, where natural persons are registered as owners, especially masters, regionals, locals, and I hear that there are also some motorways? Comprehensive systemic solutions will need to be announced, so that there should be no problem for the municipality as a country. I don't know if you're aware that we've already lost some lawsuits in this area. We don't have time here anymore. I support the proposed priority of railway construction, in particular the construction of the second track Koper-Hodoš and, of course, the modernisation of other existing links. The activities for the construction of the third pier in the port of Cyprus should be continued. I believe that more attention should be paid in the future to the safety of an increasing number of motorists on our roads. I support the idea of motorists to rebuild protective fences that now endanger their lives. And from the economy. I support the candidate's proposals that the economy needs to be burdened in the coming times of crisis by a reduction of duties, but I miss concrete solutions. Where will you find the resources? Do you not feel that the greatest reserve is inefficient and enriched bureaucracy? The Slovenian People's Party will therefore not support the proposed government team. However, it wants the good solutions set by the previous government to continue, and even better, and you have all the support from the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice welcome to all, especially to the President of the Government, and I would like to say that today is an extremely important event, as the government's staffing cycle is ending, so that the ministerial team, which will be able to start working in a very short time, as the President has announced as early as tomorrow, has set itself important goals and I am pleased that these objectives are focused primarily on development, that the Government is project-oriented and that it will seek solutions mainly in the development of the economy. That is why it seems very important to me that so far it has been stressed that we still need both technological parks and entrepreneurial incubators in order to develop new programmes and achieve new added values and thus, of course, also create an opportunity to solve some of the projects in Slovenia. And if I can focus on these necessary projects, to a greater extent in the field of infrastructure, I would like to point out this particular area and express some dissatisfaction that the Government that completes the mandate has not listened to our warnings that, at the moment of high economic growth, in the period when there was in fact no problem in closing or closing the state budget, we are building state infrastructure or highway only by borrowing credits. This was one of the biggest mistakes that will certainly have consequences in this mandate as we discuss how to provide new resources in the financial crisis so that we can continue these extremely important projects in the field of roads, railways, ports and, of course, other infrastructures that are related to the preservation of the environment. Our warnings regarding the introduction of vinjets have also been heard. It is very clear that the blames already next year are not an appropriate response to all these credits that have been hired to build motorways. It is therefore an extremely important task for the Government to make an incision in these steps and try to find new solutions, which will certainly be partly linked to an intervention in the budget, to sound financial resources, and, of course, through investments, then to stimulate economic growth, which will also help to make the budget richer. What I want and what is important in this period is that there is a real reduction in differences between individuals and, of course, also between parts of Slovenia and, if possible, what this recession is good for, I think it will help to plan more realistically how we will actually approach the development of the economy and whether the biggest challenge in this period is shopping, if we can say so, or through the sale of shares, the biggest challenge. I think that this is the period behind us, and it will be the biggest challenge for real economic growth, so, of course, I want both the president and the team to work extremely intensively on these projects and to achieve that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u73	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Dear Mr. Commissioner! The legacy you have been receiving since the government and thus since the coalition with the SDS in charge has been exceptional. No mandate-holder has ever been given such good potential, such a highly developed economy, people, citizens and citizens, with such high wages and pensions. The legacy of this mandate is also excellent in the field of education and higher education. A number of investments have been made in legislation. We started by introducing free kindergartens, gradually, because capacity does not allow a faster transition. We've introduced hot meals in schools. We did, in short, a whole bunch of projects. One thing I would stress is that in education we gave the educational work the one that he once had. For an essential part of the education, the whole process, from kindergarten to the highest degree, is also the education, the training of an individual, the training of an individual. I would like to make a comparison with what is proposed in the coalition treaty, but unfortunately I cannot do so. Because that's exactly what he's doing, training, in your coalition contract. There's a deficit. In addition, there are some fundamental values that we are talking about many times. Initially, some of the values on which this coalition contract is established are written, but the values of patriotism, patriotism and the value of justice are not mentioned at all, not in a single word. And I must say, after all these things, I believe that this is no coincidence that this was the fruit of deep thought. In fact, why? Let's ask ourselves, what kind of messages are there from this event, from a pre-election and electoral period, from the formation of a government and a coalition contract, the youngest generation, our youth, who sees some example in us? And these messages, I'm sorry, are bad. They are such that as the father of three, I am genuinely concerned. For the first thing that comes out of a coalition treaty is its deep undemocraticness. You are predicting the destruction of the last three referendum decisions that have not yet been eliminated in this country. This is said to be the end of the referendum on so-called deleted, which is not, the end of the referendum on RTV Slovenia and the end of the referendum decision on ferendum fertilization of healthy single women. This is more than clearly stated in your coalition contract. Worse still, the very value base on which your victory is based is such that I believe because I know you well that you are not really proud of it. For this message is clear to the youth: do not fight honestly; profane Slovenia abroad with falsehoods; do this when it comes to so-called erased, when it comes to the Roma, if it is to be shut down into reservations, do this, accuse the leadership of the state of corruption, even though you do not have a single document in your hands, a single proof, do this over and over again with a thousand informations going abroad every day, and you will be a winner. That's the point young people can read from this story. Worse, the story of the hearings. What's the message here? Set up a civil society to the point where you will be at the very edge of inciting a crime of abuse of an official position. The question is, which side of this edge are you on - and you will be a suitable candidate for the Minister of Justice. Be the key person in an officially established corruption act that could never happen without you in that function, and plead ignorance, which, of course, does not excuse any official in anything, on the contrary - and you will be an ideal candidate for a minister. More! If you are just the person who will embarrass the opponent of the year and years, insult, humiliate, and campaign in a pre-election campaign so far as to make the most brutal joke on the basis of human intimacy, from his personality - then you will be an ideal candidate for a cultural minister. And if I add to this what is the value of truthfulness, for it was once a value. Look, I'd like to believe you, we've agreed many times, Mr. Commissioner, that you know, when it came to such blighted topics as these, let's say they've been erased, but what we've heard here today, and what the current transition troika has repeated so many times, that there will be no division into "yours" and "ours". I simply cannot believe this because, in the coalition contract under which you have been signed, you yourself wrote this in the most brutal form, quote: "The coalition partners will prepare a detailed analysis of employment in the state administration and public institutions and institutions in the first six months following the government's launch in 2004-2008, the efficiency of new jobs and productivity". In short, you will be evaluating exclusively the people who have come into office in this mandate. You don't care about the back. They can be the most inefficient, the worst educated, they can be the most inefficient, but they have been put in place by past governments. More brutal writing that proves that even in the coalition contract itself there is a separation of "ours" and "yours" you will implement, certainly not possible to find. And I must say that I regret that this is so, because these are signals, I reiterate that I am very concerned as a father to three children. This is not the country we wanted to create. He believes that you would also like it to be different, and I hope, I sincerely hope that at least one part of your sentence will be fulfilled. You have gained people with the promise that Slovenia can lead better. Okay! This is the standard, Mr. Commissioner! GDP growth, last full year of the government, last full year of our government. Internationally compared measurements. We've achieved almost three times the growth rate, and I expect you to be at least as successful as we are. I don't believe the column will be three times higher if I'm honest, but I hope so, because it would be good for all of us, good for Slovenia, that it would be at least the same, that it would be bigger. You said that Slovenia could lead better, because you have many elements that have never been available to us. You have organised civil society on your side, you have a judiciary on your side, this is very clear with Mr Zalar's story, you have virtually all the media on your side, something via Taiwanese capital directly, through ownership, something indirectly through advertising orders and all other levers, as well as history. This was well seen in that when a credible document was presented to the Minister at the hearing, not just as it was about the Prime Minister before the elections, but about a document that proves her key role in a corrupt story - not even a single mainstream media in Slovenia reported about it! This is something that we may be very concerned about because it shows the possibility of a grave violation of the constitutional principle, the constitutional right to information. This is what is at the heart of every democracy, without which democracy is simply and only a farce. All this, Mr President, and in addition, you have on your side the President of the country, because with your support he has been elected, the majority in the State Council that has never been available to us. All these things allow you to actually prove that Slovenia can lead better. I hope and expect that this will also be the case, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to compare the results achieved, compare them with comparable European countries, because this will be a direct comparison that is clear to everyone, and that when the last full year, as it is said, your column will be at least as high as this one in this picture, then I firmly believe that this will also be a good basis for Slovenian education and, of course, for further, faster development of Slovenian science and technology, which I will pay special attention to in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u74	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u75	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues! Well, in the address of Mr Janez Janša, I expected an affair that is not the case about the future cultural minister. Mr Janša was prudent, cautious, showed a considerable degree of wisdom and was silent about it. This was not done by his client colleague, who we had just listened to. Of course, he showed a document that further deepens the impression that a copy of this discredit is being made at the expense of a future cultural minister deeper into a farce, into a grotesque farce. Ladies and gentlemen, you know exactly how the same addressee, quoted by Mr SDS, was the anti-corruption commission, addressed to Mrs Maja Shirca a letter showing clearly and unequivocally that there was no affair and that there was no involvement of the candidate for Minister of Culture in that event mentioned by Mr Grims. Here, this is a document from November 19th, this is a letter from Dear Hair Majdi Shirtz. She demanded that things be clarified, and it is clear here. I can read the passage: "Therefore, the Commission had no reason, because in the whole of its process, but also later there was no information to suggest that your influence in the direction of conclusion of the contract has indeed occurred. It is also worth noting that the Commission has adopted this opinion on nullity solely on the basis of your own application. If the Commission had initiated a procedure to determine whether your influence had occurred, it would have produced a different document, most likely a principled opinion on whether such behaviour was consistent with or not the definition of corruption under Article 2. However, because, as has been said, the Commission did not have an indication that it had happened, such a procedure is not even a principle." I'm on it. "In the present case, the Commission has therefore not defined your conduct, but until the violation of the formal prohibition referred to in Article 28 by the public authority, which is why the Commission has not referred its applications to you. Since there were no signs of any personal responsibility, the Commission has not initiated or initiated any proceedings in this direction." Please, let's finish this farce. I hope that this is definitely, if Mr Janša has understood this, I hope that his party colleagues will also understand it. And we're going to other content that I'm interested in as an MP coming from the border area from Kopra. In the coalition agreement we have drawn up together and where I have worked together, we wrote: "The coalition partners are committed to conveying an initiative to Italy and Croatia to declare the northern Adriatic a particularly sensitive area. The plans for the construction of gas terminals or other demanding installations in the northern Adriatic region should take into account the cross-border environmental impact assessments and the SEVESO Directive. such facilities must be placed in a suitable distance from the densely populated coasts and not in closed bays." I think that this is clear enough to expect all ministries involved in decision-making on such important projects to adhere to these commitments. If that does not happen, of course the situation will become a bit delicate. I expect the government to stand firm and firmly in these positions. I also speak on behalf of all those who have entrusted me with the voice and of those 40,000 citizens and citizens who have signed a petition against the gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, either on the Italian side or possibly in Cyprus. I know that foreign society has recently been strongly lobbying in Slovenia, contacting key policy representatives of the "opinion Maker" policy and trying to prove that one technology is better than the one, so this option would be better. No! No! Look. A terminal in Cyprus would mean the arrival, the entry of at least 50 huge gas tankers per year into our city. To the closed bay of Kopra. Please be aware of this information in the future and try to keep the coalition agreement. The second issue that remains hot and interesting for the public of my constituency is relations with Croatia. I mentioned earlier, I will now repeat as a Member that the starting point we inherited from the previous government is not bad. Not bad, because he's setting up, he's offering us a framework of action. In doing so, we have added the possibility and the need for further bilateral search for solutions to other issues and the establishment of a new climate, a climate of mutual respect. I hope that this government will be able to do so, and I expect this government to be able to do so. It has quite a few options, has the possibility of implementing the Bled Agreement, has the possibility of raising the level of communication with neighbouring Croatia. Failure to resolve the border issue and other issues with neighbouring countries makes the living situation of the border population worse. The 17-year-long yoke of the snake of this border dispute essentially creates and also burdens the climate of co-existence. We don't want that in Istria. We want this government to continue on the path of finding a solution and, as much as possible, in cooperation with the opposition, we will come up with a solution that will be acceptable and that will be subject to, if necessary, international and legal judgement. Slovenia must act as a drunken fence of the principles of international law. This has saved us so far, this has allowed us to become what we are, a reputable country, a sovereign state and a member of the international community. Finally, a word on the issues that were addressed on the Committee on Culture in the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Culture - Lipica. Look, Lipica is a question that needs to be resolved on the basis of professional judgements, involving the professional public, not in the way that has happened so far. The government, where, in essence, the fate of Lipice was decided by the SDS Vice-President, who is also the president of a large and strong lobbyist-strong golf club and who is a MEP, cannot be the criteria for resolving the crisis of such an important cultural monument as Lipica. After all, why Austria will keep primate over the sign of Lipica - because we were not able to prove that Lipica is the real polygon, the real field where they would be seriously treated by Lipica as a monument and a horse of Lipica. Unfortunately, everything is reduced to some folklore, there are other activities, golf, casinos. Of course, we will soon be able to offer more entertainment, but unfortunately we forget the original nature of the cultural monument. And to this end, I think that the Minister of Culture is determined to take some concrete steps. Similarly, Sečovlje Solina, where the concessionaire works, works correctly. So far he has acted respectfully towards this cultural monument and also the natural monument, but let's be careful, let's be careful, because if we overly neglect those institutions that are suitable for the development of a cultural monument, such as our museums, in this case a maritime museum, then this perspective will drift away. That's all. I hope that, regardless of the controversy, the criticism we have experienced, and I think that this is not necessarily unhealthy, on these committees and even in this Chamber, we will continue to look for common points on those topics that we consider important for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, candidates for ministers. I think that this composition of the government is a compromise between pre-election promises and actual political reality. And, of course, I regret that Pomurje did not receive a minister, as was promised publicly by today's mandate-holder. The candidates for ministers actually prepared differently and made an effort for the "hearings", one a little bit more, the other a little less. I am even of the opinion that these hearings are such, unnecessary, and should be abolished, given that responsibility for the composition is taken over by the mandate holder. I therefore see no added value in this, except for the waste of time in forming a government. They are even more unnecessary when the candidate is not an expert in the department that he will cover and reads what someone wrote to him. In a few days, two, three, four, of course, it is impossible to study such complex matters as covering one ministry and people are not aware. I wasn't aware myself, but when I had my defense, many of the coalition expected me to know everything. Otherwise, I vividly recall how the procedure for appointing a minister took place at that time in my case. I have suffered many insults, criticisms, observations about incompetence, incompetence both in the media and here in this Chamber. One of the Members, today even a candidate for a minister, estimated that I did not have any practical experience in the area I will lead, and that this is, I quote, "a really delicate question"; that, in fact, the only thing that binds me to the department is that I am the user of the department that I will lead, and that all of this makes a graphic assessment that this is similar to that of the first five Slovenian basketball team by Selector Pipan. My assessment is that at the time a fellow Member was thinking in the wrong direction a year ago, and that is also confirmed by some candidates for ministers, whom we are deciding today and who are being proposed by the mandate-holder. Of course, I strongly reject such and different assessments, observations, analyses of individual candidates for ministers before they have done anything. They'll have to be evaluated after work, and I'll do it myself, after a while. Since I've been drawn to the language of vineyards, I'm going to tell you my personal position. If this country's problem is so great, then this country has no problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u79	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Fellow Member, fellow Members. Before the elections, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has already expressed its readiness to take responsibility, together with today's coalition partners, for the different conduct and leadership of the country, particularly in my opinion, for better development. Voters and voters have made it possible to form such a coalition, which is a guarantee for both different leadership and for better development. However, through the process of enabling developments, negotiations between coalition partners, the substantive commitment to such development has been made concrete in the coalition agreement. Individual presentations of candidates and candidates for ministers or ministers in the new government. Their answers to our questions at the meetings of the competent working bodies have, in my opinion, shown that they are not only capable of managing the individual or the resources entrusted to them well, but that the objectives, orientations and commitments of the coalition agreement have been successfully implemented, some have even upgraded into their programming vision of managing individual resources. In this way, they indirectly took over a good part of the programme of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, with which we took part in this year's national elections on 21 September. I am confident that the new government team will be able to drive Slovenia towards a competitive economy, intergenerational solidarity, social and legal states and find the right balance between environment and development in our country. The full functioning of the rule of law is the foundation of every democratic society, and it is therefore very important who and how the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice will lead it. Therefore, I am pleased that the President of the Government has entrusted this great responsibility to our party, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the President of our party, Katarina Kresal, and to our distinguished member, Mr Aleš Zalar, who have committed their entire career to ensuring and respecting the rule of law as well as human rights and who are very competent to lead these two pillars. About the attacks on Mr. Aleš Zalar, I just want to say this. Mr Zalar has never called the judges to a sentence nor has he ever participated in any decision on the sentence. Moreover, he did not agree with the ruling of the judges because he was aware that the sentence could affect a very large group of citizens and even tried to mitigate the demands of the judges. I do not want to talk in detail about individual presentations on individual working bodies of candidates and candidates, although I have attended many, because today we are talking about a government team as a whole. But if I'm allowed, just a few points for transport and the environment. I am pleased that the coalition agreement has given special weight to the rail subsystem in the field of transport and that within a reasonable time, I hope, we will update the rail system that will meet the challenges of the 21st century. I am pleased that, both in the coalition agreement and in the programme of the Minister, the Minister for Transport, special emphasis is given to projects on both the third and the fourth development axes, because today we are a local community, which is not located in the 5th or 10th motorway corridor, in some way in a subordinate competitive situation and our development is in some way impossible. In the field of the environment, I am pleased, in particular, with the commitments of the coalition partners and, of course, the commitments of the candidate for the Environment Minister, that is, that such economic development and environmental protection must be balanced and that we will consistently respect the principle that the polluter pays. Respectable candidates, distinguished candidates for ministers. I am convinced that you are a good choice for the management of individual ministries and that you will meet the challenges ahead of us and that you will successfully fulfil the commitments made in your oath and in your joint commitment and that together we will justify the confidence of the electorate. I will therefore be happy to vote for the proposed government team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. 14 days ago, when we elected a mandate-holder, there was a lot of debate and accusations by the opposition about how the government team was slowly forming. We objected, and we were right. The government team was formed in 14 days. We'll decide on it today. The time needed to do so, from the election of the Prime Minister to the formation of the Government, will this time be about 10 days shorter than it was four years ago. This is right and good, as the situation and requirements also require the Government to act as soon as possible. It's the other way around. I would like to point out that I am pleased that the President of the Government has set clear priorities today and that these clear priorities have been set primarily in addressing the current issues of the financial and, in part, the economic crisis. Perhaps we can be satisfied that the dimensions of this crisis in Slovenia are not the same as many in the West. However, it comes to us, in many ways: with regard to the business of the stock exchange, with regard to the reduction of orders, with regard to the increase in the risk of workers being fired, with regard to the reduction of wages, and therefore, I think it is right that this is the first priority. I am pleased that the opposition, in particular the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be willing to participate in solving the issues and tasks posed by the Government. But I expect that the starting point for this will not be an ideological exclusion, that the basis for this will not be an objective accusation, because then there will be one speech and one word and the other acts. Third. I would also like to point out that I want and advise or recommend to the Government that, in addition to these, it assigns priority to each of the ministries to review the tasks they are waiting for, and there are many more. Because this is the basis for an assessment in the government and perhaps even between the coalition and the opposition, how we will approach many of them, that they will not die, that they will not be forgotten in the drawer, or that we will not save them without an appropriate and clear agreement on how we can save them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are not discussing the candidate for the mandate holder and his plans, his promises, he has already been confirmed. Today we will discuss and confirm, vote on the government team. To be fair, however, it must be acknowledged that the government team, as proposed, and, of course, if we do not want to assess black and white, is made up of different candidates. Some are better, others are worse - that's how life is. And as with general promises, in general principles it is very possible to find consensus, even the left troika found it in a coalition agreement in some way, but in hearings or presentations, individual candidates could not avoid more specific questions and also give a more concrete answer. And it was immediately discovered that there was a great discregant not only between the coalition agreement in certain chapters and the statements of candidates or between the actual situation in the country and the statements of candidates, but even among the candidates. Look, we've heard a lot of promises and plans that health care will have to be strengthened financially and we'll raise the contribution rate to 9%. A few hours later, the minister, another candidate for minister, promised to burden the economy with social contributions. I don't know, it's a square circle. And there were many such different promises and attitudes. If I didn't talk about those who wanted to be liked, some even engaged with, I would say, a strange, inappropriate promise, like, 1,000 euros - minimum wages and so on. And yet, I'm saying that some candidates are getting worse, others are getting worse. Why is it worse, and why are some better? Some are such that we can trust their professional approach, that they are politically less burdened by the party, more broad-minded, less visually closed into some of their closed-minded world. But others are the opposite. That's what they turned out to be. And it's free to have a great conductor, but if the concert hall hears all the possible tunes and choir plays, some players professionally by notes, by common notes, some "fowl" because they don't know, and others play by the notes they pull out of their pocket or someone else puts some other notes on them. I'm afraid disharmony will be the main mark of this mandate. I repeat, free of charge a good conductor and free of charge a certain professional player, good players, but if some of them are so "smoking". I hope that it will still be possible to understand a tune that will benefit Slovenia in spite of the individual "blowing" that this is Mozart, Beethoven or something like that. In the beginning, the president or prime minister said that we needed each other. That's a very nice statement. I will sign it myself right away, but of course this government is politically speaking in a completely uniform way. I don't know if it's good for Slovenia or bad, but it will be strong in decisions about this unity, one-colored unity, but it will also take full responsibility. We or I do not hope to assume this responsibility and, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u85	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today is written on November 21, 2008, and I am quite sure and happy that today our Slovenia will receive a new, that is, the ninth government. Every country, every nation deserves as much government as it deserves. And I'm sure there's no one among us who thinks that Slovenia deserves a bad government. Slovenia deserves a good government. And this proposal of candidates and candidates, including the mandate holder, at least represents and convinces me that today Slovenia will have a good government. No government is ideal. Each has a rise, has a fall, and has mistakes, which, of course, has the ability to undo. If we're talking about an ensemble, an orchestra that's supposed to be subordinated to the conductor, and it's supposed to be creating fantastic symphonies, then I have to say that this orchestra of the government that has been in the past has played well, but the symphony has come out in harmony, but here and there it turns out that some musician has also played beyond what his notes predict. I certainly know that this government that we will elect today will also be the one that will not be ideal, which is likely to make mistakes, but not intentionally, will try to keep it as small as possible. Otherwise, we can talk about government as a chain, and the chain is as strong as the weakest link. And I am sure that the mandate holder is smart and will also wisely lead this government and will determine where and when this weakest article is, so that it can strengthen it so that this chain can be strong again. Otherwise, I would say that all the candidates and candidates who presented themselves were, because they wanted and believed in their confidence in me and our client, DeSUS. We also believe in them because everyone and every presentation that has been given has, in large measure, shown that it has been strongly involved in the government's vision of work. That's why we're happy. In DeSUS, we know that all of our content, which we stand for, will be taken into account in the composition and work of the new government. I am convinced that the candidates and candidates who have decided on this very important and responsible function have involved a lot of courage, a lot of courage. Otherwise, everyone probably realizes that the bread is made up of a soft center, and each bread also has a crust, so they probably also count on it. Of course, there are many things that need to be said today, or there will be a great deal of time when the government will work to draw attention to them. Let me say that I come somehow from the fringes of this country, and I will be very happy if this government is more likely to be more obedient to the equitable development of all the regions, so that there will be less and less discrimination between the developed and the less developed. I also believe in coordination between individual government departments. We were once also witnesses when this orchestra somehow played out of harmony. This was not the last time when it was a question of unity or duality. A very bad light throws this for citizens and citizens, or the government, is somehow showing a lack of confidence when they see that neither of them can agree on any vital issue as it was. I am confident that coordination will be achieved between the departments and that the government will function well. Of course, something was mentioned about this. I'm basically against the human rights tsunami. Human resources tsunamis aren't good. However, it would not be bad for the Government to take some care of the human resources revitalization of individual ministries, because we know that these administrators and administrators, bureaucrats, sometimes so important and with such a strong sense that they are citizens and citizens because of them, not the other way around. They are there for citizens and citizens, and in this way of life they should also behave. So, with great hope and confidence, and I believe in the government, I want her to do well. Our party, the Democratic Party of the Retired, participates in the government with a large share, covering three important resources. We have already promised that we will do everything in our power to ensure that the government succeeds. Otherwise, I can say that the staffing for all three of these resources has been successful. We found the best candidates. We can also understand this because today there was no criticism at the expense of our three candidates. So, I want a successful job with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u87	Nicely greeted. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have decided to be a constructive opposition in this mandate, so allow me first to say two praises for the last 14 days. First of all, I am pleased that there are five ministers in the government. I come from the Krko Congregation, where there are 5 women among the 10 leading women and they all say we are a concerted orchestra and we work well. Therefore, the recommendation to the next President that he should go half-to-half on gender choices. Another praise goes to Minister Lahovnik, who, at the Committee on the Economy hearing, took over our basic maximum in the field of economy, that state-owned enterprises in the field of banking, energy, state-owned insurance should be maintained. For this I commend him and congratulate him, for in the past we have been trained a different vocabulary from his previous client and also the one in which he is now, and even in the coalition agreement he has written a little differently. As for the points I would like to draw attention to, and I would like to draw particular attention to, the area of drawing on European funds and the open letter addressed to the President of the Government by the current Minister, Mr Ivan Žagar. It contains very serious warnings that a systemic change in the area of European funds would cause irreparable damage in Slovenia - study well before making such changes. As far as local self-government is concerned, I would like the Minister to make sure that her moderate optimism in the area of the provinces is realized and that in this mandate we will come to the provinces, which will mainly be the developmental provinces we need for ourselves, in order to make a development breakthrough in the provinces. The next thing I want to do is not always have a dispute in Slovenia between Ljubljana, large cities, small municipalities, but to develop Ljubljana into a metropolis of European format, to develop medium-sized cities, which are development hotspots, employers, and also to develop small municipalities, which in some ways have done the most to make the image of Slovenia as beautiful today as it is. I will also actively cooperate in the field of agriculture as President of the Committee on Agriculture. I commend the selection of a minister, whom I believe to be a great expert on topics of international dimension. I hope that even with the cut of the financial cake in government work, it will be strong enough against some ministers who may not have so many professional or international references and certainly have greater political power. Here we will see how this orchestra will be heard and how we will all benefit from our Slovenian government. We want good work for the government team, we want good work for all of us, Slovenia and Slovenia. In the human side, we will make recommendations, we will make recommendations, we will make recommendations, we will give our opinions, in the part where we assess that decisions do not go according to our programme and are harmful to Slovenians and Slovenians, we will [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] voted against. [[...]] We're not giving support to the government today. We said that because we think it's a coalition task. The coalition, as we have already said today, is ideologically united and even by number strong enough, so I congratulate you on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let's say good-bye again to everyone! What do you say? Of course, it is state-of-the-art that people in the country, especially Members, are aware that certain matters need to have one positive, respectful relationship, and then whether we always agree with it or not. We have before us a coat of arms, including a flag, a democratically elected mandate-holder. We'll get the government today. These are simple structures that need to be respected, taken for their own, and taken as a fact when pre-election divisions are completed. So I must say that because of the kind of negativity I hear in these circles today, I am surprised and disappointed. Some simply want it to go to this government, which will certainly be elected, even with my voice, not well. And I think that the goal of all of us is to try, of course, and it will be good for Slovenians and Slovenians and all of our citizens if the government succeeds. I'm sure he will. There are new, unburdened people, including from our client two quality, minister and minister, and such a fresh, new wind also in other parties that make up this coalition. The Coalition Treaty is a framework, a good basis for work, and in practice it will sometimes be necessary to look deep, because those solutions, I tell you, in many ministries, are only at the decision of a purely ordinary bureaucrat. We have already heard a speech on the use of European funds. As mayor, I tell you, the famous Norwegian mechanism, whose money we received in Slovenia already half a year ago, and all those who speak so much about these European funds, how we were successful - in a year and a half we failed to build a mechanism to make this money available to the congregations. For a year and a half, this bureaucratic procedure, we've done projects, completed projects, paid, paid interest, and there's no money. We are one of the municipalities in Slovenia, which currently runs the biggest cohesion. The agreement was signed, the promise with the state, the municipality pays first, the next day the money from the Cohesion Fund and the state ministry. It's not happening! We rent credit, pay late interest and the burden that should be borne by the state, we pay local communities and municipalities. These are the real and concrete problems that need to be solved. Of course, we expect concrete solutions from the Government to many problems. In the area of, say, agriculture, I think that we have an excellent candidate for this area, an expert in the field, an international authority that will face and solve the challenges in this area, but it is necessary to solve specific problems; why we are building so many good fields, why on the other hand the pollution will be what Slovenia's attitude to genetically modified food will be. Look, the Austrians went on their own, courageously carried out their analyses, which, of course, showed that thinking could be different from that offered every week by multinationals because of their own economic interest. And here too, Slovenia has its science, its mind, we also do those analyses that will specifically affect our country and our province. A solution in all areas will have to be sought every day, fresh and innovative, and we must avoid being impatient, intolerant. Today we have heard a lot of criticism at the expense of the Government, which is supposed to come, and I will reverse the practice and I will tell all those ministers who have been doing their best for four years and also to the mandate-holder, Mr Janez Janša, who surprised me with a speech and a performance in this Chamber: thank you very much. They fought their best, and they all did what they thought was right and best. I expect it, and I'm sure it will be the same with the new team, so I want them to be happy and successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u91	Good day once again on my behalf, colleagues and fellow Members, Mr Vice-President and, of course, the mandate-holder. One of the biggest challenges of the new government will be to find that subtle balance between development and social policy. When I listened to the two candidates who will bear the greatest burden in this area, this is what the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Health said, and I must say that they have convinced me more than they have. Not only that, I am sure, or after the reactions of my colleagues, but also from opposition parties, it seemed that they, too, had somehow adopted an opinion or realization that they were actually faced by extremely competent candidates who would be able to lead these two very difficult ministries within four years. It is true, however, that the Devil is always in the details and therefore would really suggest to the new government that a great deal of subtlety be dealt with by a small man who will face these difficult times in which we are walking. And that, in fact, sometimes even at the expense of some of the top-looking perspectives, more important decisions find the right measure to find a compromise that will also go at the expense of this little man. One of the key problems that I see here is actually the gap that will be shown in the possibilities for paying additional health insurance for people who cannot cope with this burden today, and the new law has bypassed them. It's at least 130,000 people. The second thing I would like to draw her attention to is the happy realization that social communication is getting as much weight as it needs to get, and that, in fact, we place between social partners not only those classical social partners, but also important generational and interest groups, that is to say, in addition to the old ones also young people. It is a fact that youth are still carrying a left share of the burden during this transition period or post-transition period, and its situation has not yet settled in proportion to how much they contribute to the development of this country. Therefore, greater attention and weight should be given to young people as well. Of course, I hope that social communication will take place at the expense of finding the optimum consensus, not blackmailing and imposing various positions of power. The third thing I am very pleased with, Mr President of the Government, is that for the first time you have spoken a word about non-governmental organisations, about the important developmental force that you will give in your government by also appointing the Secretary of State for this area. If we're talking about eraseds on one side, we can talk about silences. We are talking about 22,000 NGOs with hundreds of thousands of volunteers who can contribute significantly to further development and development breakthroughs in this Slovenia. It's an untapped potential. And I'm going to give you just one indicator that confirms that. If this sector employs 0.7% of employees in Slovenia, in EU countries [[15]] 8%. So you can see the possibilities here in terms of the development of political participation, as well as the complementary or alternative fulfilment of the social needs of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In order to assess the quality of the proposed team and later the competence of their work, we need some clear objectives and measures. That's not what we've been through. Four years ago, exactly two months after the elections, the government actually confirmed, on 3 October, the elections were held, on 3 December the government took place, on 21 September the elections were held, and on 21 November the government will actually confirm itself. It's not 10 days earlier than we heard a few minutes ago. So we could have heard specific targets four years ago: for 3 percentage points we will grow faster than the most developed countries of the European Union, we will reduce public spending by a percentage per year. And some other specific commitments, we will reduce the number of public servants. My first serious point at this performance is that there are no concrete objectives. We do not know how much you predict Slovenia's faster economic growth than the most developed in Europe to catch up with them. How much will the share of public consumption in the gross domestic product be? It is very important that one representative of the President of the Government can never ignore measures which one systematic approach can take to rationalising public consumption in the country. And that reminds me of the measures immediately after the independence of the companies, when they were getting rehabilitated and they started saving on toilet paper, pencils and the like. And then they thought they were going to save the companies. This approach is something that is ineffective and has already been seen. However, let's just say that we can judge by work and we will judge later, but I think that, despite the fact that two months after the formation of this team, a tactical error has been made. First, the coalition contract was coordinated, and then the team and many candidates today, a number of ministers who will be elected, have not participated in the programme and are not identified with it. On the contrary, he criticizes him. In particular, this is in the economic sector. And today, this candidate has different views, as set out in the Coalition Treaty and as proposed by other candidates for ministers. For example: unload the economy. Yes, but the proposal is a reduction in the contribution rate, i.e. anything that can, for example, be a suitable measure for recession, when it is critical and when the company actually does not have liquidity. While we, as well as some other ministers, propose to allow that pro-pulsive, development-oriented part of the economy to invest in re-investment, that is to say, in development and thus to maintain and increase what is created in those companies, as well as to re-employ a part of the non-performing sectors. At the same time, of course, help the part of the economy that is in trouble. Not only is there a dissipation of the opposition: a position, but also within the members of the government. Mr Gaspari and Finance Minister Križanič have very different views here than Minister Lahovnik, who has not given priority to reinvesting capital gains in his hire, but rather to reducing social contributions. This is just one example of this paradox. Another important problem is in supervisory institutions. The foundation of the rule of law is not only the rule of law but also the rule of law. Assembling some existing supervisory institutions, such as the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Securities Market Agency, under the Bank of Slovenia, will in no way enhance the independence of this work. The independence of this work is if the policy does not interfere with the operation and the staff. And I'm sure I'm wrong, I hope that the reorganisation of these institutions is actually made just to replace part of the leading personnel who stepped on the economic lobby, the economic lobby that is close to the ruling option. And there's one more thing. The orchestra's mixed. A mix between professors, politicians, and it's Ljubljana's. Most, about 3/4 of the candidates are from Ljubljana. I hope they also have a hearing about Posav who is losing the minister. I hope that they will be listening to Prekmur or Pomur, who is also losing the minister, to Dolenjska and to such regions as will not have their seats on this ministerial team. I wish you a happy hand, and we will certainly be with you on smart proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice President, colleagues, Honourable Commissioner! I say my support to your team at the beginning and at the same time stop when I call the opposition not to wait for criticism. Let me tell you that within the coalition, we will be critical, if necessary. And my vote against one of the candidates on the committee was, at the same time, a warning to the Government not to be subjected to temptations that are repeatedly subject to by the successive governments, when they are often merely a tool for multinationals to achieve their short-term goals after profit, at the expense of the quality of life of citizens. A specific example is the gas terminals. This is where the government will be on a major test. For several years, independent experts have found that the consequences of this arrangement would be extremely negative. In January 2007, the Interdepartmental Commission of the Janšev Government also found that the construction of these would be destructive. In Slovenia, investors already walk with suitcases much larger than those in the case of Patrie, lobbying for the construction of both those and terminals in Cyprus. That's why, Mr. Pahor, we're counting on you in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the introduction to the Coalition Agreement, we have written that this document is the answer to the challenge of the time we enter and represents a vision of development in which everyone will have the opportunity and opportunity to create a decent life. The agreement invited the participation of all those wishing a better Slovenia. That is why today, Prime Minister Borut Pahor has pointed out, as his first message, that we must act as a representative, that we need each other. This does not mean, of course, that the Government would like to place part of its responsibility on the opposition. The Communication particularly encourages political dialogue in the National Assembly and calls for a new form of partnership for development during the great global financial and economic crisis that has already crossed the borders of our country. One of the fundamental messages of the coalition agreement is also the principle of professionalism and the ability of people, which has an advantage over their political and client loyalty. That is how the government will act after President Pahor's assurance. Here I would like to point out the potential danger of coalition governments, the risk of the feudalisation of ministerial departments. All too much has been witnessed in the past two decades to the leniency of ministerial departments by individual political parties and to the subjugation of their narrow party, housing and interest groups. This must be exceeded, and the Government must act as a representative, not just as a pool of coalition partners and selfish individuals. After a thorough consultation between the coalition partners and on the basis of the assessment of individual candidates in terms of expertise and efficiency, Prime Minister Borut Pahor formed a government team of 18 ministers and ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers is an expert and politically strong team. There are ten ministers and ministers with a master's degree and a doctorate in science, all of whom have at least university education. There are five ministers among them, most of all so far. It is good that all four political party presidents are also some ministers and ministers without a client card. At presentations at the National Assembly on parental committees, which may be an anachronism of some sort, but have already traditionally escaped the procedure well cut off. Two of them were confirmed unanimously or without a vote against. Others have also received quite a few votes from the opposition, with which they have been copied mainly by the biggest opposition party. Besides, it's no big deal. I've never seen an opposition sing glory to the new government's staff. Today, in a possible way, it is similar to the problems of the early 1990s when the Slovenian economy was also facing severe trials. Let me illustrate this with some numbers that are related to technological development. Before 1990, more than four thousand development engineers and researchers were employed in the Slovenian economy. In the second half of the 1990s, this number fell to about a thousand and four hundred. Thus, at the time of the transition break-up of the old economic system, a large majority of the development departments at the time collapsed. Large systems have also collapsed, such as the Iskra system. It took a lot of time and financial resources to revive the development departments gradually. Investment in technology parks, incubators and development institutes will certainly be one of the government's main measures for an effective way out of today's crisis. The school we paid 20 years ago by shutting down development departments was too expensive. Economic development will also need to be encouraged by the new investment cycle in rail and transport infrastructure on priority development axes and telecommunications infrastructure and energy. This will only be possible with the appropriate and more efficient use of resources from the various European Union development funds, as has been the case in the last period. We also expect a successful response from the Government to the crisis in the Idrian-Church industrial pool. In the Idrija-Cerkljan constituency district, this is in the municipalities of Idrija and Cerkno, as well as an appropriate response of the Government to projects that are already awaiting implementation and which depend mainly on the state budget. These are mainly the modernisation of road infrastructure on the fourth development axis, the completion of recovery of the consequences of mining, investment in education, culture, home of pensioners and so on. I wish the new government team a successful work and work in favour of the welfare of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished mandate-holder! After exactly two months of the election, we'll get a new government today. While the apparent content of the coalition contract was relatively quickly completed, it took up the human resources part more than once. In parallel with the formation of the government and with these procedures, the public was increasingly impressed by the crisis or black conditions prevailing in Slovenia and by the image of the mandate-holder as the future senator of this situation. In those days, I have seen information that pensioners will receive an adequate 4.6% pension allowance this year, which is, of course, the result of the law adopted under the Government's mandate in 2005 by Janez Janša. I wonder if the situation would be as bad as it appears, and if Slovenia were really in a recession as some of you speak today, and if the legacy of the current government in the public finances was as catastrophic as even some candidates for ministers would have said if it were really as bad at drawing funds from the European Union as some candidates for ministers have said, from which half a billion euros were then paid to pensioners. The facts, of course, speak differently, are verifiable. Slovenia has, thank God, not on its own, successfully avoided the financial crisis. This year's budget surplus will be recorded and the report we received today on the work of the Government in the 2004/2008 mandate shows that we have been the most successful among both the old and the new members in drawing on European funds from the European Commission's data. On the other hand, it is also undeniable that economic growth is still very positive, which is why we are still far from the recession recorded by some countries in Europe, but the effects of the European recession will undoubtedly reach us. And the way you act will depend on how successful we are to get through it. It was said that the government, especially the President, must act by example. That's right. However, this populist statement, which has been made today, I have no doubt that it is well-intentioned, about the representative, namely the cappuccinos that the mandate-holder will pay himself, does not help much. Nor in the coalition contract, even less in the declarations of candidates and candidates for ministers, does it see or follow any particular pattern of austerity-based measures. On the contrary, if, at the beginning of the previous government's mandate in 2004, we had clearly outlined objectives with a clear example of reducing public spending, we would now expect at least so many ambitious targets, if not a little more, at the beginning of the previous government's mandate. One of these measures, which gave a very clear signal, was the reduction of employees in the public administration by 1 per cent. In these circumstances, the message should be similar, not the other way around, but it is not. For this reason, I fear that, unfortunately, after the elections and after we talk about responsibility or taking responsibility for running the country, some will still say something, do something, and write something down, which is not good. In the field of environment and space, and indeed in many other areas, there are no specific changes, no new policies, no new innovative approaches. It is mainly about the continuation of existing policies and measures, which must be supported. There's no doubt about that. All that is written as guidance and does not mean a departure from what people have decided or what is good is, of course, to be supported. In the area of environment and space, however, this is a specific area where I think we are facing very big challenges in the future. These challenges and the changes that await us would be right to be seen as development opportunities. Therefore, this unambitious objective of adapting to climate change in terms of preparing an action plan is not sufficient, according to my assessment. I think that this plan should be drawn up and taken in the shortest possible time for their active implementation. And this should be written in a coalition contract, but it's not. This operation is missing, and I don't think we're going to do anything in this area without it. On the other hand, we have written down some of the details that I think are unrealistic, are good, I personally support them, let's say that parking lots will be built in the future underground, talking both in front of malls and in residential buildings. For me, this means that everything that will be built from now on will have to have parking spaces underground. It's unrealistic, and it's unreal. Guidance is correct and needs to be supported, but it must be defined in a different way. On the other hand, I also miss one concrete commitment to the number of dwellings. In these programs there were 1,000, 10,000, 1000 a year, 10,000 for the whole period, here in this contract there is nothing. However, it is a very important area and I support the strengthening of this fund. To conclude, if I may, the statements made by the candidates in the hirings, and in particular their disharmony and disagreement between what is stated in the coalition contract and their statements, indicate that the new ruling coalition will have the greatest problems with itself. I will personally support all good decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u101	Dear Mr Vice President, President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Given that I am coming from Prleka and Prekmur, I will talk mainly about two important things that are somehow the most pervasive and premurishing population in this part of our country, these are the environment and space and agriculture. In the area of environment and space, I would like to draw attention to three segments. The first is the provision of healthy drinking water to the population and the protection of water resources in our region. For eight years, the construction of the Pomeranian water system has been under preparation. This matter has already been settled by two governments. The supply of healthy drinking water is strongly influenced by climate change, as well as by intensive agriculture, which, according to the example of the European Union in our province as in Slovenia, we want to change and set up some 200 large farms. I think it's a big mistake. It is inappropriate for our residents to bring healthy drinking water to the Slovenian Mountains and Goričko. Funds for the construction of the Pomeranian water pipeline, which is one of the largest projects in this environment, could already be implemented if they were to decide in a timely manner and draw funds from cohesion funds. Given that these resources will not now be available, additional funding for co-financing will need to be provided within the country's budget. It is with great satisfaction that some local communities have undertaken this project with great responsibility and that this can also be done at their expense. We expect to make an application for cohesion funds for the implementation of this project within the next month. I am confident that the new government will do so from 2009 to 2012. Our municipalities are also following the Council of the European Union's umbrella directives in the field of environmental protection, as well as water, and are preparing ideal projects, plans for the management of drainage and the treatment of municipal waste water. We are preparing these projects, and I am sure that we will not have as many problems as we had with the water supply. I am convinced that we can coordinate this matter with coordinated work within the ministries and not allow bureaucrats to interfere with this issue at different levels. The spatial document is also a major influence on the development of an area. Last year, this high assembly also passed a law, which unfortunately we cannot implement successfully, because we are experiencing too many bureaucratic obstacles, we are simply waiting for some consensus and I wonder if we can have these spatial documents at the local community level by next year. If that is not the case, of course there will be no economic development, there will be no good and even better lives for our people. Look, Prleki and Prekmurje are kind of hiding on the economy on two activities. This is agriculture and the textile industry. These two industries do not give what they would call a greater added value, so our province is becoming more and more wooded down, but is not approaching the development of central Slovenia. If this continues, then this means that in the 1930s we will not reach central Slovenia. The population of our statistical region is very concerned. The development of agriculture in some strange way, as I mentioned earlier, we are talking about some large farms that are supposed to be competitive in the European market. We are thinking less and less about Slovenia being specific and that Slovenia also needs special farms, not a farm with thousands of hectares, because we do not have so many agricultural processing areas in Slovenia. I think that this is the last moment, and I am sure that the candidate for a minister who will become a minister today in his ministry will shortly adopt a strategy for the development of this activity in the country. I'm afraid if it doesn't approach here relatively quickly, the countryside will be lost enormously. I would also like to draw attention to the social security of farmers. Here I am thinking mainly of equality before the law, the retirement of farmers, the entitlement to a protective allowance, to maternity farmers and, of course, care. This will have to be a new task for the Government, and it will have to be done relatively quickly if we want these parts of the country where the most rural population lives, even in some way, to be able to put people on their feet, so that they can also survive the times that are before us, which are very much talked about in this Chamber. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one more institution, which is at the time of the establishment and importance of the establishment of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. I think it is high time that we start thinking in this country about giving land to those who process it, so that farmers can round up their lands and rule with it. There are still a lot of building plots in this fund, and I think that these building plots should, not today, move into the local community yesterday. Some, however, understand that this is a big business for them, or they could even say business and local communities are selling this land that we have turned into a building in our agricultural processes, and of course we need it very much. I am confident that, among others, the Government will resolve these issues, which I have mentioned, so I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u103	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr President, the distinguished President of the Government, Mr Pahor, fellow Members and Members, are warmly welcomed. I'm glad we're moving forward with today. We will confirm the ministers and ministers of this mandate, some of whom have already pleasantly surprised me at the presentations, both the candidate for Minister of Finance, local self-government and regional development, as well as transport and the environment and space. To all of us, the electorates and voters have shown confidence, we are ready and responsible for change, we are responsible for ensuring the uniform regional development of Slovenia, and in particular for trying to ensure that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have a decent life with development in the field of transport, a quality transport connection of all areas of Slovenia with central Slovenia, including the White Country and the Dolenjska, where I come from. Yesterday, I was warned by economists of large companies such as Krka, Revoz, Trimo Adria, Kolpa Danfoss, when they somehow expect us, Members and Members of Parliament from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take care of this issue. Their task is to further develop the economy despite the global recession and also with an increased unemployment rate. Therefore, social dialogue and creative participation of all of us here, both coalitions and opposition, will also be urgently needed. Today, however, under the leadership of you, Mr President Borut Pahor, ladies and ministers, I wish to see you as successful as possible. As has now been the case in the composition of the government, building a house requires a good foundation. And I believe that these hundreds of days should be a good basis for you to continue the work of this government, because then the work will be easier. I wish you the successful and responsible performance of all entrusted tasks by achieving the objectives set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! You probably remember me the last time I asked you about the pre-election promise that in the event of a victory in the elections, you would give laptops to all primary school children. The elections are behind us, and thus the pre-election promises have faded, and the victory is yours. Now you have offered the voters and voters a coalition agreement, which, according to my assessment, is a set of wishes in terms of 'we will work hard, we will take action, we will study'. Mr President of the Government, don't mind me, I propose that you rename the coalition agreement into a declaration of good intentions and wishes for the implementation of the coalition programme. However, behind the loose text of the agreement, you have written down some commitments for transport that we cannot overlook and must be pointed out. In the Coalition Agreement, you have announced legal and organisational changes in railways and the possibility of privatising rail freight. Our opinion is that you have decided to break down and sell Slovenian railways, which is not necessary at all, as the whole railway system is in line with all European regulation, and elsewhere in Europe this has not worked out well; let us see the case of English railways. Slovenian railways must be uniform and uniform. In this way, taxpayers would be left again on the shoulders of unprofitable public passenger transport, maintenance of infrastructure, and a new private owner would be given direct and cheap access to Luke Koper. What if this is the first step towards privatizing logistics with Luca Koper in charge? In his presentation, the candidate for the Minister of Transport did not have any concrete answers. It is the fate of 10,000 people employed in Slovenian railways and their families. Can you imagine a month before the elections saying that you would privatize freight traffic on railways and that the job would lose 3,000 people? You're guilty. I think you can admit that the government that runs out of mandate has done something that is good for people, the flow of transport and the environment. What would be the result of the elections if the month before the elections were to be said, the blame would be lifted because otherwise Dars would fall apart. Dars will not fall apart, even in the coalition agreement you are restoring him more powers and powers, in my opinion, to the detriment of financial transparency. But it is true that the candidate for minister here was very clear that you will not end the vignette. But yet you wrote in the agreement "revision of the introduction of vignettes". To what or to whom do we now believe, written or spoken? For how long and when tolls for trucks will be increased, what relief will be given to domestic road hauliers, whether a single ticket will be introduced, or whether bus fares will be reduced, why the cableways and cycling in the agreement are listed in only one sentence. We had several specific questions, but we got more general answers. However, in his presentation, the candidate for the Minister of Transport also said something that is not included in the coalition agreement, but it is important. He said that the government has done something so far, which is good, that we have invested a lot of money in state roads, and he has also committed himself to keeping these funds at the level that we have reached in the time of our government, between €250 million and €300 million. This, only very concretely, we welcome the promise and add it to the already promised promises of higher minimum wages and higher pensions. If I do. We understand that the infrastructure projects that we have drawn up in this government under the resolution on national development projects will continue. Developmental axes, additional highway program, railway projects. I am pleased to note that, in our mandate, the resolution on the development of transport infrastructure has been properly put in place and I propose that you maintain it as it is, and that you do not engage in its revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u107	Dear, weary Prime Minister of the Government! [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]] I'm glad I made you laugh, because the worst thing you can do to her is have a boring debate. Nevertheless, in this debate, I wanted to give some positive attributes. Since I have followed them most often from a distance, the debate in our National Assembly, I must say that today's debate after a tone, after some new democratic respect for each other, gives me optimism. I think that today we are also proving to the people who are accompanying us, by television, that Slovenian democracy at the head of this house is maturating and that we are becoming like the Parliament of the countries with which we share fate in the European Union and in the world of values that we stand for. I had the opportunity to attend the six cannidate presentations myself. Since there are few of us in the parliamentary group, we had to split up so much that a large portion came for each one. I must tell you that it was my impression that I had attended the presentations of six ministers who could also be ministers in each of the advanced countries of the European Union. I had a good feeling and I congratulate you, Mr President of the Government, on your choice. When I speak positively about this debate today, however, this debate leaves some open wishes. One is that this pain of defeat would be slightly less. Because the pain of defeat leads to objectivity. That's how we heard a statement about the ideology of this government before it started working. I think that was a little over the top. I would sooner say that we have four years of overly ideological division and that it would be better if there were fewer of them, especially when it comes to the media, when it comes to the cultural image of our country. Not every one of these situations, because I think that the border has been exceeded, has been named separately, but if today someone is obvious to the future minister that he supported the sentence, then of course I cannot recall that we had had the Prime Minister of the Government who demonstrated against the Roma that we had a President of the Constitutional Court who demonstrated against Parliament's decision that we had a Minister of Internal Affairs who, with a megaphone, gave commands that directly constituted a violation of human rights, that we had a situation in which a President of the State almost escaped the lynche for hair, and that in the presence of the police. In short, things were going on that would have been better if they hadn't happened. I think it's better if we don't drag the bodies out of the closet and not mess around with it, but we're heading in some direction that's pointing. It also pointed out in the speech of the Prime Minister, former Prime Minister of the Government, that there was a desire to cooperate. I have also seen such a positive tone in Mr Zorn's performance, and I am also grateful that he is ready to give the Minister, who objects to her, an opportunity to show that she is willing to cooperate, and that you will also participate. I think this is a good promise for Slovenian culture as well. I said to myself that I would also use a few minutes to say, Mr President of the Government, that your concept of seeking an alliance, seeking consensus, seeking consensus across the boundaries of party divisions is not the first such concept. We had a long-standing Prime Minister of the Government, one of the Prime Ministers of the Government, who was among those in Europe who held the position for the longest time. I am speaking, of course, of Dr. Janez Drnovšk, who marked the very difficult years of our state formation and probably made a significant contribution to the fact that we have endured a number of crises under his leadership in some mature way and that there have been no differences that this nation would share even more. I think that even in the foreign policy area, I know, the President, that you are interested in this area, that you have experience in it, you have a good foreign minister who has also indicated that he intends to engage. Here too Dr. Drnovšek left some extensions of what could be an active foreign policy of a small country. Let me remind you of his project, his plan for Kosovo, his engagement in Tibet, his engagement in Darfur peace, his engagement in a just resolution of the Middle East crisis, and the far-reaching agreement of Drnovšek - Račan. I think that we had a school of human policy in Slovenia, that we had a person who trained her, that it would be good to remember him more and also his time, which was successful for Slovenia and for all of us. And I would say, Mr President of the Government, you have the opportunity to continue on the road that has actually been checked as a success in Slovenia. I'm sure you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have heard full stories at the expense of our coalition agreement that it is inappropriate, too general and so on. That is true, but I must say that in principle it leaves enough room for such decisions to be made, which implement the principle in the right direction, with the right trends and for the benefit of our citizens. Nothing helps any coalition treaty, which has been written more precisely in the previous term, and we have not even touched, examined or sought to achieve those kinds of things, gentlemen. I have to confirm that this government that's gone has done a lot of good, great things have happened. But we haven't been consistent in things and I'm not referring to it as an obvious fact, but just as a fact that doesn't give too much basis for criticism, which should have happened later just because there are no numbers in the coalition agreement itself that we supported. I expect ourselves to do everything we can to make this happen as much as possible. If most will come true, it will be about as in the past when the purpose was good, and the objective situation will be such that nothing can be done. And that's it without trying to defend anyone in that sense. Surely it is also true that they leave more open opportunities for a coalition agreement space for any correction of what we have in mind, and the situation will be such that it will not only be possible to implement it in one way, so it will be necessary to use a backup option or to give up certain things. If I were to take too much of France Križanič's comments on the thousand euro minimum wage, I could see today that our concern for the defence of the social state is over. But I believe that his message, with this comment, has gone in the right direction, because our country's development understands that we must increase the minimum wage in order to solve all the other problems arising from today's salary being too low. It is not possible to imagine a decent pension for someone who would have a minimum wage of forty years because he would become the next day when he retires to a social problem. Therefore, it is essential to think about raising the minimum wage, correct thinking and we support it, and we have not taken these comments so literally and we do not intend to take it as an indication of the further functioning of our common authority and Parliament. Surely, too, as regards the one-off supplement that we have negotiated, if I may say so, the question that will need to be further discussed. All of a sudden, we've heard that pensioners aren't up for this, for this supplement that they're not happy with. The Union of Pensioners of Slovenia has attacked this agreement as bad. Therefore, it would not be wrong for us to ask ourselves, like those who persisted in this matter, whether this is really a good solution. And it would be wrong if we were not prepared to discuss that this solution should be finalized, at least so that not all would get the same allowance if their pension was EUR 500, from a different heading, one full-time job, one half. Or that the supplement does not include, say, social supporters who have only 200 euros in income or some more change. Or that we didn't ask ourselves what would happen to the unemployed, three-quarters of whom had income below EUR 400. So I claim that, while the coalition agreement does contain commitments as they are, this does not mean that common sense and consensus in the field of social partners or employees should not contain changes in the final realization of the good purpose of helping the poorest in our country in this way, in addition, given that the system solution takes much longer than those people who do not have bread do so. They need some help today and so we talked about the addition as some emergency solution for a short time, a short time to prepare in peace and thoughtfully those changes that are necessary to ensure the long-term stability of the pension box on the one hand and, on the other hand, to stop the fall of the standards of pensioners, which are increasingly coming to the edge that is unacceptable for a decent life. From this address, I have no great concern to support the ministerial team, which is coming and having my full support, in the belief that our three representatives in the Government will also defend what is good for the majority of this country, not only by saying our programme, but the agreement that was adopted, our programme in those parts that concern the social state, and all solutions, in a way that is consistent with civil society on the one hand and common sense on the other. So I think we're on our way. We've chosen good candidates. Our President, too, I believe that he will do everything possible to ensure that the ministry he intends to take over does what needs to be done, in accordance with the European directives and our legislation in the field of the environment, so that things can also run faster at local level because there are deficits. In short, it is necessary not only to have an agreement, but also to work at making this happen as much as possible. I can tell you, we wrote down once that we're going to build cheap apartments for young people, and we haven't even started. We've done a lot and a lot of things, and that's probably how we'll be in the next government and parliament. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We've started a lot of things. We'll do a lot of things. [[...]] Maybe we won't, but that's life. I think it's almost impossible otherwise. I want a new team to be happy and as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u111	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The joint denominator of the presentation of the ministerial candidates I have seen this week is one clear determination on the objectives they want to achieve in their work and on the other hand the debate on implementation. Therefore, in the coalition agreement, we find the words 'we will study', 'we will analyze' and so on. At the same time, ministerial candidates and candidates have also clearly communicated one broad political openness and willingness to hold a broad political debate in the National Assembly as well. I am pleased that the previous President of the Government, Janez Janša, has taken the initiative to form a new partnership for development, but at the same time it seems to me that in the vast majority of the discussions that we have seen today by the biggest opposition party, we do not see the real understanding of the challenges of time. Instead, the truth is sought in the branches of the coalition agreement. John Janša said that we should not take aspirin before the cold, that recession should not be treated when there is no recession. Two months ago, during the election campaign, some representatives of the SDS in the election performances convinced the Slovenian public about the excellent economic condition of Slovenia. Today, unfortunately, we are familiar with new and new threats to job closure every day. So I'm saying maybe it's good to take aspirin, maybe at the time of the conjuncture we could save something, and then maybe it would just take lemon and time. I sincerely hope we don't have to go under a surgical knife. But what Slovenia needs today is some new optimism, is one positive flow of things. What people who live in fear of losing their jobs living in fear of the collapse of their activities that they have created for years and years deserve is that they know that Slovenian politics will together do everything in its power to prevent black scenarios. I think that with some of the legislative proposals proposed by the government in cooperation with the new coalition so far, we have already shown one strong signal that we are going in this important direction. The time of crisis is also a time that requires ambitious moves to build hope and to strengthen the strategic raw materials of Slovenia, which we all often talk about: knowledge, power, work and creativity of people. All examples of companies or ideal approximations of knowledge societies show that this requires one fundamental social consensus after the developmental transformation of the community. That is why we may need a strong country and, above all, a smart country. And today, this is what Slovenia needs. You have the right to be against the new Slovenian government. The responsibility of the opposition and the responsibility of the coalition differ. But let us not forget that in exceptional times and extraordinary moments of history, this responsibility is coming very, very close. "We need each other!" said the President of the Government. I think we can turn problems into challenges if we can step together and form a structured dialogue on the problems brought by the financial crisis. Only with economic penetration, and let us not forget that we also have many positive reviews in Slovenia and the Slovenian economy, and in particular people who, after some research, are doing the most or are working at the top of Europe, are making a good promise that we will be able to meet these challenges. To meet these challenges, I am also strengthened by the belief that Prime Minister Borut Pahor has proposed a good ministerial team, which, for reasons that I have listed at the outset, also overcomes the ability to create a development leap. That is why I will support the Pahorje government, the first Social Democratic Government in the history of Slovenia, with pride and joy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u112	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have a habit of saying that every government faces two kinds of problems. With the problems she chooses to solve, for example, she wrote you into a coalition agreement and with the problems she chooses to solve. And I'm afraid that at the time that's coming, she'll be primarily dealing with the problems that have caused her, because the government has chosen to solve them at this very moment and no other moment. I wish her a lot of luck, a lot of success. I must say that the economic crisis, as is evident in us and in the global situation, will trigger many debates here, in this house and beyond. How do you get rid of them? Will the Keynesian approach be sufficient if it is at all? What do you add to this, and how do you change it? All of this will be discussed in the coming days, not just in these days. Of course, I would like to not encourage the Government in any way, but I would like to point out that it will not be enough if it deals with the problems they have chosen, but of course it will have to deal with the problems, the events that started in this mandate, even earlier and will not end when it ends its mandate. One of these problems and these issues, of course, is climate change. I'm glad my colleague Blackach mentioned it. The coalition agreement, as well as wider, of course climate change are not only defined as a problem of adaptation, much less so. The preamble to this Treaty or this Agreement defines climate change as a development challenge for the transition to a so-called low-carbon society and, of course, not a major environmental problem. CO and some other gases are not half-naked in the classical sense of the word, but can be developmental, technological and organisational problems and so on. And that's how it's treated in this contract. It is therefore clearly important that we view climate change as a development problem, that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, that we need to accelerate and introduce technologies, low-carbon technologies, and that we need to adapt to the changes that are already here and are already happening, at least in the opinion of some, and will continue to happen. This is very important. And from this I would like to draw attention to these long-term objectives, which also relate to institutional change; not only to some climate change council, but also to the climate change office, which is expected to link all of these, including civil society, into a coherent and transparent policy. Everyone in the opposition or anywhere who can contribute must also be offered a hand here. After all, some opposition parties had something to say in this area and also what to contribute. I would also like to point out, because I am dealing with these matters, that, of course, the management of natural resources, especially water, including the forest, including the land, including minerals, is also among the problems that go beyond the mandate of these governments. I'd like to focus on water. It is not only a question of water quality, surface and groundwater, but also of course water balance, water balance care, water balance enrichment, and that water falling in the form of precipitation, which is stored in different segments, could say, our natural environment is not leaking, is not leaking, and that we have it as an important strategic raw material, source and opportunity for survival. They're not random sightseeing studies, we've read about one today that speaks of water as the most important strategic resource. We're lucky to have her. But we won't have it unless we change the water management and management policy. At the same time, I would like to point out that the time may have come for us to come together and consider whether it would be better if we did change the process of setting up the government. Is it really necessary for the mandate-holder to come to Parliament twice, to be elected for the first time as a mandate-holder and then to be elected in a similar manner by the whole government? Now that we have this experience, we've all drawn roughly the same lesson from it. I propose and give this initiative to agree to do this more effectively, better and faster, because sometimes times can be such that it has to be done quickly, sometimes it might not be time to rush. In this regard, I would also like to point out that, at the time of its establishment, the President, Vice-Presidents, had a scenario to activate and react, if necessary, with regard to the laws already adopted. We had these scenarios, we didn't explain them because they didn't have to be, but I would like to reassure all those that, even when we were building up the government, we had a scenario that we could react to if we needed to. I thank the government that's leaving, too. In many areas, I did not agree with certain proposals, the measures they had taken. I've said it publicly and said it repeatedly and more publicly, and it's right that I did it. What I've noticed is that, above all, it's not a problem of good desires and desires, but of unsolicited consequences. Many governments want good, but what they do is not a goal that they want to achieve, but something completely different. And we call it, colleagues already know the unintended consequences. There were too many of them, although the intentions were mostly good, and I want the new government to have as few unsolicited consequences as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u114	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. President of the Government. I'll support the team you proposed. I was able to follow the presentations of one-third of the team - two ministers and four ministers - and I was convinced that, despite possible slight deviations from what was written down, I could add everything I heard from them into a coalition agreement, which has a very significant title for me, "Implementation of responsibility for change". And that seems essential to me. With this slogan on the need for change, we have gone to the elections and the coalition agreement promises that we will exercise responsibility for change. How, when, to what extent - will be able to see after four years and I hope that you and your team will get an excellent rating and trust for another term. There has been so much talk about whether we have read Members and Members, as well as candidates for ministers and ministers, read the coalition agreement because someone has ever been declared "coalition contract". But this could remain at the level of linguistic finesse if we did not hear more often, on the other hand, about the coalition treaty than about the coalition agreement. The difference that opposition Members and Members have been alerting them to also comes from the structure of the document: the one from four years ago was structured by ministerial departments, which is according to the programme's conclusions. The wealth of man is to me, you will understand me, the most important part of this coalition agreement and I consider it to be a vision of where education, sport, where health, social, should go, so that we can achieve what we believe is prudent, but to change qualitatively. That is why I think all those candidates who have pointed out that there are many questions, but not always well-known answers, that these candidates are worthy of support, because they will look for answers to questions, because they will attract many experts, civil society, all social partners, because they will know how to find knowledge in people who, as our candidate for the Minister of Education said, "our greatest wealth." I wish you a good way to find and achieve the goals that we have set together.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister. I also welcome the candidates for ministers, who, on the basis of the stupid rules of procedure which you unfortunately adopted when you were the President of Parliament, should not be in front of the country and the people. Look, Mr. Prime Minister, your client is stepping on stage in a much more friendly media space than the previous government. The pressure on the press is obviously scary. They should not have reported what was happening on the hiring, no virtually no opposition issues; and the difference is enormous. I compared it in the same paper, the same writers, say, hiring for the Foreign Minister. At that time, all opposition Members indicated what they had been asking, and this time they did not even mention the coalition MPs as being biliaryly attacked by a candidate for foreign minister. That a colleague of yours reported to him that he had no role in Slovenian foreign policy, that he was not worthy of anything and so on. And of course, with such unilateral service to the public - I am in solidarity with the journalists and I condemn that the editors and owners have pressed them so hard that they could not write it - perhaps the public imagines that the dream government is really going on, as you promised for a long time. Nothing like that, except for some great competence, we didn't notice in the hirings. Before that, we noticed that in your ranks you had very strictly planned the dream ministers for the party DeSUS and sent some ministers there. You are also fortunate that some members of the DeSUS dream of following orders from your party's diplomatic work. These are the starting points, and look, I think some of them are more competent candidates, and I will mention them, a candidate for the Ministry of Defence, where I led the hearing, I realize that. And it strictly separated a personal vision of measures in the field of safe policy and a coalition strategy for action. And it has, for example, given great emphasis to patriotism, domestic development in defence, but this in the coalition agreement is not: not in the defence field, nor in the field of education. Moreover, in the area of education, where the new minister from the FDV comes, one of the professors most gallantly attacked the President of the Republic when he spoke of patriotism in front of the Slovenian Army. And that, of course, people notice, young people realize that, and in this way we won't get the soldiers right. Look, I also noticed that there's another breakthrough. When I asked the candidate for the interior minister why such a priority had been deleted and, as a result, compensation for the deleted and asked her explicitly whether it was true that Mr Jankovic and the Serbian lobby had placed a condition on you that this should be so arranged for his participation in the campaign. She didn't deny it, she didn't answer that question. Look, then the candidate for the Minister of Public Administration, when we asked her what the revised relationship between civil society meant, said we were not involved in writing the contract. She admitted that you forced her to do it. And you are aware that the Octorated Constitution meant on the ground of the former Yugoslavia and also on these soils for 70 years the end of democracy. And then your Member, Mr Brultz, said that democracy goes beyond all borders and is against democracy. Yeah, that's outrageous! And in such situations, Mr candidate, I fear that changing the future, as you said last time, is not a priority of this government, even though you said today that addressing the crisis is a priority. But the economy has three sides, state administration, and how to cover its people's employment, but it has six pages. And in the economy, no action, no solution, nothing! That's not a priority! Because if we had a priority, we'd write it down. Now everyone's saying they only have questions and no answers. I want you to give your answers so that you can be "engaged by your country," as the Mayor said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bukovnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u119	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister of the Government, welcome! I come from Koroška and my word will run on the support of the Government also in the projects that will take place in Koroška during this period ahead of us. Exactly, I come from one of the three valleys, the Drava Valley. I believe that the challenge to the surface of a prepared coalition agreement is irresponsible primarily because one is what you can write in a coalition agreement, and the other is what the President of the Government and ministers, once confirmed, can actually find out in those first analyses when they are in the ministries. And if we challenge the coalition agreement with superficiality, then I must return to the period of the previous mandate, when the government visited Koroška with all the powers, and at that meeting the former Prime Minister has also somehow promised with full powers that the third development axis will experience the start of construction in 2008. This was the real promise made by the Prime Minister with full powers. That is why I have somehow focused more on the hearing or presentation of the candidate for Minister of Transport, Mr Patrick Vlačič, who, in the coalition agreement and also at the presentation, has somehow inspired us with optimism that this is one of the biggest projects in Slovenia - the low construction of the third development axis. If I may say that after these short analyses, which we have done at the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Transport, we have found that the third development axis on our section, which is north of the Maribor - Ljubljana motorway, has not, in fact, yet experienced the conclusion of the Ministers in order to call for action on the implementation of the national site plan. This means that it is the beginning of the construction of the third development axis in our area in the year ahead of the end of this mandate. I very much want to move this date closer with the support of all in the government, ministers and ministers and the President. Above all, I want and will continue to work in support of the Government today and also because I will do the same as the President of the Government did - I also did not ask for an apartment in Ljubljana mainly because I will experience on my own skin what it looks like when you need it from Radelj ob Drava, where I am at home, and until Ljubljana two hours drive every day. This will be one of those supplements that will drive me to bury the shovels on the north end of the third development axis as soon as possible. All right, Vlad!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Mr. Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings for me, too. However, since we have a limited time of discussion, I will focus my debate on, in fact, those points that have convinced me why it is worth supporting this government team. In fact, this will be my contribution to explain why I will support the Government proposed by President Borut Pahor. I participated in five presentations on the candidates for the Minister or Minister. Several ministries are so-called state-of-the-art. For me, all ministries are state-run, as the government as a whole is running this country and not just some ministries. They are all important and each ministry is therefore state- and important. I do not agree to the division of ministries of importance. I'll give you four reasons why I'm going to support this government. First of all, because she's an expert. Candidates and candidates showed exceptional knowledge of their area and presented their vision for the management and development of the Ministry, which has been more widespread than is actually enshrined in the coalition agreement. But it's true that the opposition was in the way. Mainly because they were unable to ask questions specifically because ministerial candidates and ministerial candidates could actually answer all the questions. They also recognized, of course, a great deal of expertise, but it is true that they did not then vote for these because the political decision was slightly different. This is, of course, possible only when someone knows an area to lead in the next term. We are aware that not all problems can be recorded in the coalition agreement, and not all solutions can be foreseen. Leading the country is a dynamic work and the problem that has not even been indicated yesterday can today be the biggest problems in this Slovenia. We also have here with the current financial crisis, which we have already talked about, which no one has actually detected during the election campaign. Another time. Discernment and tolerance in managing and introducing a new policy. They all set out in their presentations the need for an analysis of the functioning of individual ministries in the past period, which is likely not only to stop in the last four years, but also to analyse in particular the development tasks that have been planned in the past, which go beyond the period of the outgoing government. It seems important to me that, despite the acute and turbulent times we now call them, future ministers will take at least enough time to analyse past periods at regular intervals and build policies on this basis. No one spoke only of a bad period, but it was stressed that it was necessary to keep it well and to continue to be upgraded with new perspectives, which is not applicable, but that it should be amended not to happen intentionally or unintentionally, that when we adopt certain acts, certain guidelines, when this is taken into action, no one is satisfied. Remember the payroll system, 166 thousand employees, and extremely few or almost no one who would be satisfied with it. It is true that wages are a particular problem, but that such a great dissatisfaction would be in this area is, of course, not just a case. It's because it wasn't well thought out. And third time, connecting. At the time of his appointment and also today, the Prime Minister's candidates have repeatedly stressed that cooperation with Parliament will be one of their priorities. This is also very important for parliamentary democracy; even now that we are entering a rather uncertain period of the projected economic recession, it will be extremely important that both Parliament and the government cooperate and seek the best solutions to facilitate the management of the real sector in these unpredictable times. I'm sure that together we can find solutions so that the tsunami won't hurt us too much after the financial earthquake. This period must be overturned together. And the fourth time. Which, of course, is one of the most important things for me as a social democrat and, unfortunately, last time, but probably most important - the care of the rule of law and the social state. The programme exposed concern for the rule of law and the social state to all ministerial candidates and candidates. In the time ahead, caring for a fellow human will be extremely important. The government has also stated in the coalition agreement that it will pay special attention to elderly people who need help and live hard, as well as to young people who struggle to enter the labour market and to enter a new life after school. It is important that dialogue be resolved through social and intergenerational dialogue. Therefore, and because of these things, of course, I will also support the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will begin where my colleague Vizjak ended up when he said he would support all the wise suggestions in this House if the Government came with them. And today we have the first smart proposal, this is the composition of the government, and I hope that together we will support the government. Otherwise, in view of the day-to-day debate today, I would focus on those who have little doubt, namely this partnership or the one announced by the Prime Minister and, of course, the opposition leader. Indeed, I have little doubt about this partnership since the beginning of today's debate. And why would I doubt it? Because the opposition leader, the current Prime Minister, has clearly and clearly said today that the recession in Slovenia has bypassed the recession, that we do not have the recession, that the financial crisis has also bypassed us, that wages have never been as high as we have in this year, that unemployment has never been as low as it is today, and so on and so forth. The Prime Minister, the future Prime Minister of the Government, in his opening remarks, had just seen the deterioration of the situation in these areas as a starting point for calling on the opposition to work together to find the best solutions in these situations. So if I paraphrase the current President of the National Assembly and the current Vice-President of the National Assembly, Comrade Tsukati, then in this partner orchestra, someone has already announced that he will be "fusher" or "fusher". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u125	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to the committee discussions and I am pleased with the presentation. I am particularly pleased that the opposition MEPs also support them in large numbers. I've read this from the committee vote. Even though individuals of the opposition species still look at candidates or candidates as ministers with skeptics, it would be time to forget about old offenses. Please give them a chance to start performing their assigned tasks. It's not right for you to deny them their abilities in advance. Of course, I have listened particularly closely to the economic presentation, i.e. the Minister for the Economy, because the economy is the backbone of development and I particularly need to assess today the presentation of the economic resource, in particular the readiness for a strong and professional Directorate for Small, Micro and Medium-sized Enterprises and, through this Directorate, to take advantage of all the open opportunities that are open in terms of new jobs, the establishment of new companies, micro and smaller, the focus on service activities and, of course, the greater penetration of micro and small enterprises into foreign markets. I was particularly delighted by the debate. Even in the sense of the river Mura, I come from Pomurje, so the river Mura is an open opportunity in Slovenia and, of course, we want the locals to make the most of it. Of course, local self-government and development, I must admit that I was quite surprised at the very vehement statement made by the future minister that the landscapes must be tackled immediately. I have understood that she is quite an expert in this area, because I would like to have sub-regional organisation for the establishment of the provinces, which is very good for me as a 'local'. Of course, as colleagues have said before, Pomurje is in some way nourished at this time, especially in infrastructure, and I suppose it will get slightly more green light in this respect. Today there was much debate on the coalition agreement. Please, for me, the coalition agreement is the goal, the vision, the direction of the work of all segments of the government team. And any vision either needs to be corrected with any new knowledge, and this is perfectly normal in these turbulent times. So, fellows, don't be afraid, it's not exactly a line to be held as a drunkard of the fence, but it's a framework that's changing, it's complementary to the needs. I was really appalled today when I saw in one of the debates that some individuals are making fun of themselves in this sense, there is no crisis at all, what is the crisis and so on. Your Honor, the crisis is a global one. We have some official announcements from individual countries that are a particular focus of this crisis. The economy in the EU, if you are following, is a real horror at this point, if I say so at home. There has never been such a crisis or such an unpredictable crisis in the world. All economic logic has fallen because it's something completely unpredictable. And there are no rules in this crisis that we have been used to. The crisis will also have disastrous consequences for some sectors. The crisis comes with a delay, because that's probably clear to everyone. And of course it's no wonder that some people's fear is for jobs. What does it mean to have a job, you probably all know. It is therefore necessary to react immediately and professionally. When I heard today, above all, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and individuals that you will support good projects and good guidance, I am optimistic at this moment. This is a guarantee for the good work of our government, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Luka has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! It was very interesting and instructive to listen to the debate so far. On the one hand, I have been able to become more convinced of the eligibility of the decision to support the proposed ministerial team, and here I thank the Prime Minister for his quality choice. On the other hand, I appreciate the firefulness and vigor of my esteemed colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, as this often contributes not only to better control of power but also to the search for the best possible solutions. Of course, we will need results, and these results will be the result of the work of the expert government team and the launching of the parliamentary society. But one of the preconditions for this is to clean up before our threshold. While the two ministers are welcomed, even if they are not fully justified, they are thus increasing the pressure on all members of the government to work in accordance with legal and ethical criteria. Too bad there was no similar control when the previous government took place. I'll just give you two cases. For example, when the outgoing Minister of Culture Simoniti, through his media pluralisation fund this year, allocated EUR 200,000 to Nova obzorja d.o.o. Who owns this company? Almost 50% or 46% of this company is the owner of SDS. In other words, the Ministry of Culture practically donated €200,000 of public money to its minister. And we can only guess what that money was used for during the election campaign year. Or another case. When the outgoing Foreign Minister Rupel was scaring Europe with diplomatic notes and Finnish public television in the best Balkan style, he made such demands that he only achieved the enormous damage to the credibility of Slovenia. He showed how the government has so far understood the concept of media autonomy. And if we're thinking about Patricia's affair. I want us to understand that we are not defending the state's reputation by covering the truth and putting pressure on the media, but by acting effectively, transparently and uncompromisingly against corruption, to which they point more and more, that in this case it has actually been, although of course it is still premature to talk about where and who we are fighting against this corruption. This is what Finland does, and that is why it enjoys such a reputation, and I hope that the new Slovenian government will do as well, because I know that all ministers will do their best to get to the bottom of this. But if we go back to the results, the challenges that will be common challenges will be two: to mitigate as much as possible the social consequences of the global crisis and to start a new wave of both economic and social development as soon as possible. This would have been easier if the government had acted more wisely in the past four years and had created less public debt. So let me read you something. The book you probably know, the Bible, Genesis’s first book, chapter one. "Pharaoh shall set up stewards in the land, that in the seven years of plenty they may gather a fifth in the land of Egypt. Let them gather all the food of these good years that come, and bring the grain under Pharaoh's authority as food in the cities, and store it. This food will be a stock of land for seven years of famine that will reign in the land of Egypt. That way, the land will not fail because of its ability." It surprises me that after three thousand years of having more knowledge and more information, you did not follow these Bible guidelines. Today, if we were to stick to this, we would be in a much healthier state so that we could cope with the current economic challenges much more effectively. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Levanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, colleague and colleague. We are followed by presentations by ministerial candidates who have presented their views on the management of individual resources in a comprehensive, reasoned and, above all, ambitious manner, which is particularly important in view of the time in which we enter. Unfortunately, he also used a number of these presentations to account for each other between the coalition and the opposition, instead of focusing on those issues which are problematic and which we must turn into future ones. Personally, this behavior is foreign to me, the work of all of us in the National Assembly is not only a public act, but primarily an action for the well-being of our country and all its people. If we were going to play a game, who would be who, then today we could say that some of you deliberately deceived the public that the formation of the government is taking place too slowly, and that we are going to spend just as much time today as you did four years ago. But this is not our intention, the purpose is that through the government's creation process, we can recognize that this is a serious purpose, to get to a new government as soon as possible, which will be able to start work and face the challenges that lie ahead in the future. Let's also give the team a chance to prove themselves and show them what it knows, not to throw pollen under their feet right at the beginning. Therefore, I ask myself honestly, dear colleagues and colleagues, what is our purpose: whether to give the new team a poor traveller at any cost or wait for their results and only then critically assess their work. Like everyone else, I have high expectations for a new government. The economic crisis will achieve that we will be able to have a higher level of unemployment quickly. Many people, especially those who already live with low wages, are or will remain on the road. In doing so, I am concerned that a number of companies are also taking advantage of the time of the global crisis as an excuse for further forgiveness and, of course, this is wrong. On the other hand, we also need to take note of the crisis that is taking place in companies, as many of them are in serious trouble. We need to help them keep jobs. This is our task and the task of a new government. If there is a healthy economy, there will certainly be more opportunities for development. Hands on hearts, but in the past there have been many missed opportunities, at a time when with high economic growth they could save for the bad times, the times before us today. I must also say that I agree with Mr Janša, who says that savings will have to be made in the future. Above all, if I understand correctly, also by reducing employment in administration and public administration. While I welcome this good intention, I do not know why you hired fifty and more people in public administration during the period of the transfer of power, even though you knew that austerity measures would be necessary and that a new government was coming. So you say one thing and you do the other. On the other hand, you are talking about the success of the previous government and, in your opinion, the good points that the current government has, in some cases, yes, but not in some cases. In today's Evening, you can read that the Ljubljana Stock Exchange index ended below 4,000 points, which is the value it achieved in 2004. In this area, therefore, the starting point is the same, and the difference is that you had a much more favourable working environment, which we cannot claim to be a new government. The fact that the effects of higher economic growth were eaten by inflation and that people with the same wages in trade pay double the price also marked the period of the outgoing government. [[Mr Vizjak, I believe that some things are funny to you; I represent my position, I will be happy if you listen to it.]] So I cannot understand your actions as a constructive criticism to the incoming government, but especially as a speculation that will continue as always in the future. But, dear colleagues, now it is what it is. This time is behind us. It's about the future. In each of the ministries, there are a lot of challenges ahead of the new team, and we need to recognize the same importance for all the departments, because they will have to work together more than ever before and face the future. So it doesn't matter who these people are going to be at the head of these ministries. On the contrary, these people will depend on the fate of our country! The responsibility is great, but I am sure, given the presentations of the candidates that this task will come to fruition. We will also need our help many times, so once again we call on all of us to make political schemes, games and performances a past, because it is time for Members and Members to be aware of the seriousness of their responsibilities and accordingly to act appropriately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Mencinger has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Chairman. The President of the Government, Your Honor, Your Honor! I have to say, the proposed team is good. In a given situation, I can tell you that she's even great. All congrats to the mandator that in such a difficult situation, when it was necessary to take into account the agreement, the wishes of coalition partners and other things, he received such a team. And I can tell that this team is as good as the whole. The next thing I'd like to point out is the hearings of candidates and candidates in hirings. However, I would not go specifically into the details, but I would like to say something that, as a new Member, I was a little surprised at some fellow Members and Members who were dragging stories from 8, 10, 12 years ago, clippings from newspapers and other things. I think it's unproductive and we should try to avoid such things in the future. The very composition of the proposed team with a team of five ministers, I think it's really commendable because we have for the first time five ministers. And I'm sure they'll be a better part of this team. Let me say that the experience we have in the Jesenicas is that we have seven presidents in nine local communities who run local communities. The economic situation, to put it mildly, is very complicated. Let me say that over a thousand trucks in Slovenia are standing. Let me tell you, workers are shrinking. Let me tell you, on the other hand, there are mandatory leave and forgiveness. Businesses receive smaller orders overnight, including by half or 30%. Payment periods are increased to 120 days. The liquidity of companies is very questionable and in a very difficult situation. Therefore, the part that the President highlighted primarily in terms of cooperation, tolerance, dialogue, solidarity and teamwork is not only necessary but also necessary. I will not now go into situations and proposals in this sense, which part as a Member I am covering, but I would nevertheless point out only one. This is the 10th corridor of the Caravanke - Bregana Motorway, and I will stay on the route Ljubljana - Karavanke. Let me say that this highway is disabled for reasons unknown to me, because, in fact, once over an old bridge, we are talking about the Laundromat, it is closed and it is still possible to carry it out. So I think it'll be one of the ministers' orders to look at these things. Since it is Slovenia, for us, for our common future, I will also support the proposal proposed by the mandate-holder. However, it might be possible to agree with those - even the Victory of Jelinčič - that in the ministries, it is the responsibility of ministers, it will really be necessary to achieve these things, as we said before - from cooperation, dialogue and teamwork and once to realize that this work is not for itself, but that it is a work for the good of Slovenia. That is why I want the proposed team to work successfully and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues. I have a feeling that the longer the debate went on, the less you know and less you understand what your President said in the next speech. All your discussions have moved away from the essence and from the style and things that he has actually said and proposed in terms of good, creative cooperation. There's also a lot of devils in the Bible who can find some sort of quote that comes in handy. And also the debate that Crnak Meglič had when she spoke about civil society and the role of civil society is, in fact, most demeaning itself, because she was an important representative of one of the institutions of civil society and today she is a politician. Before that, she was very much opposed to the political option. And we're not just gonna stay on top of it. Such units of civil society are large in Slovenia, where representatives of LDS, SD, Zreza and DeSUS and others are represented. For example, is civil society the long-standing president of the Olympic Committee, who attended the election meetings of the Social Democrats? Does the association belong to civil society around Forum 21? Are the civil society of the Retired Society whose presidents have run for office on the DeSUS list as candidates for Members? Is civil society, for example, represented by the President of the Bar, who was former Member or Minister of Liberal Democracy? Is the Union of National Liberation Fighters Civil Society, which has become highly active and highly profiled in the pre-election event? Or is it an association of members of the supervisory councils run by a nephew or the favourite nephew of a member of the Social Democrats? I would also like to know how you feel about the fact that politics must withdraw from the media, say from the TRV world and so on, but at the same time members and Members have their own television broadcasts in the entertainment programme, in the pre-election period and now that they are Members. Is this the withdrawal of politics from TV? For example, the hidden camera is already a broadcast on RTV run by your colleague. There was also a great deal of talk to political personnel. The president said it wouldn't happen, but actually it wouldn't happen or it wouldn't. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] a key with the names of six persons to be replaced has emerged; although it has been said that this key will be destroyed, it has not been said anywhere to replace it. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Mr. Bojan Kontic quits. Then I give my word to the Prime Minister if he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u135	Dear Mr. President, the High Council! I'm the one who asked those who made the schedule to order me for the last hour. But with your permission, Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members, I would like to give it up if you would allow me to say, instead of responding to some criticisms, I would also like to say one anecdota from the time of coordination, who will be the minister and who will not. Can I? And let's keep this between us. No, it's not an anecdote yet. One day, one of the candidates comes to me who should be in the quota of one of the parties. Let me stress that it is not someone who is now a candidate for a minister or a minister and tells me right away at the beginning that I should not offer him a place for Slovenians around the world. And I said, "Surely not because you're under-represented!" I'm saying this because I already had in mind an academic, Dr. Boštjan Žekš, who, of course, does not belong politically to our circle. A while ago, I invited him to come to me, and he did it politely. I proposed to him to sit down, and so did I, of course, with an unscrupulous nervousness, because I do not have a master's degree after all, but he was the former President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. I told him I had one idea. He said it's always a good thing if someone has an idea. I told him I had one bold idea. He said, "It's also generally good if anyone has any bold ideas." And then I told him that the idea was to engage politically. And there was a time when one silence came and he said, "Mr. Pahor, you probably know that we don't have the same political views as each other." And I said, "Mr. Academician, no one is perfect." He says, "Okay. We do not have the same views, but you have a sense of humor, and I suggest that we continue," and we continued until we were united that the candidate for Minister for Slovenians will be around the world, and this candidate has been given an agreement in the National Assembly for his appointment. What am I trying to say with this case? That people can have different views, that we can have different views, but we can be united by wanting to do something good for our country, and that we are willing to cooperate. Today, I have expressed my willingness to cooperate, and I am very pleased that this desire has come particularly with those who are in opposition to the open door. I will do everything in my power to make this today's joint commitment to try as a policy, not as a government on the one hand with responsibility, and the opposition that does not have such responsibilities, act as a representative. I would now like this team, which I have proposed to this high house, to receive sufficient support for ministers and ministers to swear before this high assembly and to meet at the first meeting of the government tomorrow and to begin work. It will be possible to judge us by the results. We will make sure that these results are successful, for the benefit of the community, on whose behalf we assume responsibility for our conduct within the framework of the competences we have. As it is said, ministers and ministers, including myself, will spend a great deal of time in the National Assembly. We do not hide that, as has been said, we have more questions than answers. I don't mind that the coalition agreement may be flawed. Perhaps this is also the answer to the challenge of the time ahead. If we were to make some commitments and recipes about how we would proceed and stick to them as a fence drunkard, it might even be bad for this economic uncertainty that we are going into. Together, we will find answers to these questions. We don't have to wait for recipes to be invented by others. It is very important, of course, that we place the intellectual, political, scientific, technologically in the most modern flows of the developed world. But at the end of 20 years ago, when we faced similar challenges and even today we need to rely on our own ingenuity, our minds, our creativity. The role of the government will be to connect all of this into a social atmosphere that will be inclined to give people confidence in leading the country in the right direction, this is in the direction of the club of the most developed and most solidarity countries in the world. I know this is an ambitious idea, but even 20 years ago, Slovenians and everyone who lives with us won because we were ambitious. The happiness you wanted for the government is always on the side of brave people. To the National Assembly, and also, I hope, to the newly elected team, I would like this happiness, which will be held by the brave, too. President, will I finally be able to express my gratitude to the former Prime Minister and his government if the Government is elected? Thank you. Then I will say good-bye to this moment from the National Assembly and invite you, if it is in your power to support the proposed team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Since I see you want to discuss this, I am opening applications for debate. It's 16. Just give me a second. We'll figure it out. I think there'll be less than three minutes to discuss, two and a half minutes. And four minutes!? Come on, math! Well, everyone will have four minutes to discuss it. The first one gets the word, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u137	Respectable and respected President of the Government! It is my great pleasure that we come to this moment when, as the newly elected Member of the National Assembly, I am able to realize one of my deep dreams, and this is to support the Pahor government. I am convinced that the coalition has been able to gather positive energy and put itself in a positive flow of Slovenian history. And I am sure that the four years that follow will be years of extraordinary effort and challenges. However, if we are able to understand these common challenges and the ability to talk about them in a creative way and to look for common solutions, I believe that there is no limit to Slovenia as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Let me repeat only my words that some of us made a promise consciously to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia and here we represent their interests. That is why I will support this Government and this team in the future, because I believe in these promises, I believe in these coming times, and therefore the work of all of us is responsible, and therefore I believe that people are in the right place with full responsibility and great courage, as the predecessor, Mr Borut Pahor, has said.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u141	I, too, would like to support your efforts to build a new country, a country that will no longer be based on the feeling that it is a state of personal property, but that we will no longer be in Ludvik XIV style, saying, "State, this is me," but we will have another motto: "State, this is all of us." Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, there are more than tens of thousands of NGOs, which are fortunately not led by more than tens of thousands of party members, but are these functions of managing non-profit, non-governmental and non-professional organisations in the hands of people who want to do so through NGOs, which is very good for Slovenia and Slovenia in very different areas covered by NGOs. And that is why I think that I should speak and report to individual politicians or people who are related to individual politicians. Unbelievable! It is said that we will have to adopt a law that prevents or deals with the incompatibilities of a function in a non-governmental organization with any relation to any policy in that country. I think that the government will make sure that NGOs function normally, that they do what they are set up to do, and that they will work in the area for which they were set up. However, I would like the Government to take particular care of one of the key tasks ahead of us: the difficult challenges in the field of environmental pollution, in the area of reducing environmental burdens. I am sure, after the presentation I have heard on the Committee on the Environment and Space that we also have a good minister in this area or we will have a good minister, and therefore the entire ministerial team led by our President Borut Pahor, I want a happy journey to the next four-year period.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u145	Dear Mr President, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! It's not my habit to speak empty, because there's no time on the local level. Time is precious, and if we lose it, we run out of problems, we don't solve them, and so on. But in Parliament, democracy is set up differently and obviously there is enough time here and I am learning very quickly. So I'm not going to lose words and try to say that we have a lot of work ahead of us. I come from a mountainous border region that competes with a highly developed Furlania - the Julian landscape. That's why we have an interest in pulling this wagon even faster. We have projects. Maybe you're familiar with the Imprime project. We know what Europe offers us through Phare and ESP programmes. We've got the chicken. [[?]] Here in the country. I will not mention everyone, but the Fund of Agricultural Lands, we have a nature that goes into our city and so on, and this is what I have run for and will work on committees and here in Parliament to release the possibility of building, to release the development ideas that are present everywhere. At the border, of course, our great concern for the replacement and several times the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was indifferent to this area and it forgot what was happening 100 metres from Nova Gorica. We pay for higher education ourselves, we build a college campus, we build some infrastructure facilities ourselves, and so on. So I'm here, and I'm sure this government will have the power to have knowledge. I've been on five tests of these skills of future ministers. Everyone has satisfied me, and I am sure that tomorrow, when the government starts to make some plans that we have long in closed rooms here in Ljubljana, we will move from a dead end. I wish the government great success. Let's stop comparing ourselves to five, ten years ago, when time was completely different. I'm sure it'll be better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u147	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. We are aware that forming a government team is not an easy business. Many interests, many demands, many circumstances need to be coordinated, and yet, you have succeeded, you have created. It's hard, but it's very hard to make a good team, but it's impossible for an ideal team. There's no perfect team. There are good and less good candidates on this team as well. Some, forgive our opinion, our conviction, are very weak. If life ever shows that we're not wrong, and you'll get to know it, we suggest you replace them. You won't be the first or the last prime minister to do that. We have promised constructive criticism and support for all important projects. Having a good minister is an important project for the country. And in such cases, we suggest that you do not hesitate to assume this responsibility and also at the price of resenting a certain candidate and associated persons. So, Mr President, I know this team will be confirmed, even without our support, for this, the coalition actually has a majority of the votes, but here on this side will be the opposition that will look under your fingertips, you and all the ministers, all the candidates. I hope that we will be correct, that we will not be offensive, that we will criticize acts and not try to discredit individual human beings. So, Mr President, the team that is is very diverse. I know, you can't judge work in advance, you have to wait, and once again, I hope that life will be, and that you will react in time to some anomalies that will discover and flood life.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u149	Thank you. Now, I owe you an answer because many of you referred to this letter from the Kosovo Commission. You know, he wrote a very interesting thing. For the law and for the commission, it is not important whether or not there has been an impact and so on, it is that the fact itself, the act and the wantonness are sufficient for this situation to take place. And in no way does he deny, on the contrary, that this situation has occurred again. A situation that is contrary to the Anti-Corruption Act, and that is why we call it a corrupt act or whatever else, of course, a word play. This is not a traffic offence or a violation of the Traffic Offences Act, but a violation of the Anti-Corruption Act. By also stressing that, according to his conduct, he refers to a letter, but it was not known, the lady did not know the right, but the law does not bind the officer to responsibility. Well, that's a fundamental legal principle. That's why you're an officer because it's considered your duty to check the laws you're working under. And that's the issue in the entire case. Nobody said she took advantage of herself because she couldn't if it was revealed in time. In theory, I could not, but it is obvious that the person who did not perform his functions properly would remember that many of you, as well as Mr Kos, were able to do so, were vehemently reading the top of the Slovenian government, which is now leaving, involvement in corruption without having one piece of paper in their hands. This is a proven act contrary to the Anti-Corruption Act and you have covered it deadly on the committee by voting, and you are also predicting today's vote "yes". The one who will vote in favour of this fact, of course, proves that, with all this talk about the meaning of the Kosovo Commission, he has not taken corruption seriously, not once, because he will act contrary to his own words. That says something else, by the way. When I first listed which levers of power you have in your hands. You'll also obviously have, if not obvious, at least silent support for those institutions that should have the same valet for everyone, but obviously they don't. Before that, I mentioned what was going on, and even abroad, even from this address, there are double messages, if anything, and there's probably something there. We all know. They're a little weird out there, but they're not. But here, when it comes to a proven act, there's no problem. And that's no longer a problem, because there's someone close to who's doing this function. And that's wrong. All of this law is the same; all must be the same; all of us must be equal before the law - if not, the country is not legal and is not democratic. And this is one of the fundamental problems we will obviously face in the coming time. And there will be another problem, this vehement reference to civil society. Look, I got a list right here. I think we will soon be able to read it more or less in full, at least on the committee, if not in the National Assembly. This is a list that is long, believe it or not, over 30 densely listed pages. Former officials themselves, party officials, parties to the transition troika, who hold key positions in the so-called civil society, from the Olympic Committee, which is headed by the former SD president, to the pensioners' associations, where the former SD member is headed, to various universities where one wife of the former SD president is headed, to the other former SD minister, to the third and so forth, not to mention. [[...]] To the Red Cross, which you also mention in the coalition contract. Who are Mr Pezelj and Mr Jelenič - one has run for the LDS and one for the SD. So that we don't just happen to know what's going on with these things. They're all party officials. And it is with these served party officials that you have literally smothered civil society, which is a necessary part of democratic regulation, which would be a welcome part, only to be a neutral part, that must be a politically independent part. Of course, that's not who he says it is, then he's misleading the public. And this part of this civil society had an infamous symbol that you all know well and you predict that you will go back in the same direction. This was the former president of the SD at the head of public broadcasting, which should therefore be of all public opinion. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Borut Pahor! Unfortunately, we are voting in the package, so I will not be able to confirm your proposal. But if we were to vote on individual candidates, I would certainly press the "yes" button for a number of candidates. Especially for Mr Žekš, because I think he will do his job very well. Some candidates for ministers are indeed so untrustworthy that they would not even be able to run a meeting anywhere under Peco or Urszlja Gora, something else. As I said, you had a very happy hand with Mr. Zhekš, although it is interesting that you have dedicated only one sentence to the Slovenians around the world in a coalition agreement. You've dedicated one paragraph to the Zamajniks in the coalition agreement. And that's bad. I hope that in the future you will have a very different relationship to this area. There was a lot of talk today about the recession, the financial crisis. My colleague on the other side said we need new optimism, we need a new optimistic "time". I think with this government comes optimism. But here comes that optimism with the big "o" with the big start. That's the optimism we attach to the d.o.o. True, LDS, Mr. Gaspari and more. This optimism is a metaphor for policy convergence with economic elites. Mr. Pahor, I wish you luck, you'll need it with such a team as you suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Alexander Ravnikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u153	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. President of the Government, distinguished colleagues. I am pleased with the proposal made by the Prime Minister of the Government. I will support this proposal. I also understand my fellow Members, on the other hand, that at this point they must dispose of the pollen they brought with them and it is understandable in its own way. But at least three things that I want to mention are making me uncomfortable. It makes me uncomfortable when today's reality appears in colors that no citizen of ours can recognize in the results that are not there. Secondly, the fact that some colleagues give legal qualifications for crimes to the debate does not make me uncomfortable to think of the reporting obligation. Even if they refer to their long-standing expertise. And third, when used with the wrong plural for political purposes, the multiplication of the primary type is used. We have already experienced all of this in this debate. Because I want the government to be our new government as soon as possible and to get to work. I wish her a lot of success on the way forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. At the outset, I would like to mention Mr and colleague Grims, who is surprised at the functioning of the retired party officials, as, after all, party officials, former party officials are still working effectively and are a respected part of our political and civil society, such as your party's president or its Vice-President, Mr Janez Janša and Miha Brejc. But let's leave the past behind and go into the future for a moment. I would like to get the government to put social, public health, public education and higher education first. I wish we had a government that would hope to say that because of different priorities, it would not raise defence costs to 2%, but would set real and specific milestones. A government that will be able to break with the tradition of human resources exchanges that have been in recent years. I am very pleased that, when we finally support this government today, we will receive just such a ministerial team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Well, I would like the words that have been spoken here to become acts and that those you utter, even by their personal example, would contribute to making it truly an act. The government has committed itself, and the mandate-holder has also said that there will be no prior recruitment. And there's a 600-name key. It's supposed to be destroyed. However, there is no guarantee anywhere that this record does not exist because electronic records simply cannot be destroyed. The mandate-holder also stated on 7 October that he fully trusts in our banking system, despite all the things that have happened. However, we read a week earlier in Finance that it has as much as 90% of its deposits in a foreign bank. It is said that it would be necessary to have an argument when we make a statement, but it does not. We know that a few days ago we adopted amendments to banking legislation, the Public Finance Act, which freed up the interbank sector or cooperation between banks. But it doesn't run. I wonder if any of the banks have a bad investment, or if they even have such an investment by Banka Slovenije. We don't know that. But apparently there's a lot of mistrust and apparently there's a black Peter in this system somewhere. I want to know what you're actually going to do if it turns out that, say, your candidate for minister, former governor, hasn't done all the things that you should do as governor, let's say he's allowed irresponsible behavior or overlooked or allowed bad investments to business banks or maybe even to yourself as a "supervisor". That's what I think will be an important question when these things are discovered. You've talked a lot about saving again today. You have also said in one of your first performances that it will be necessary to grant the privileges of Members who will be compensated 12 months after the end of their term of office. However, the first measure of your coalition was a bill sent by which you extended the circle of beneficiaries. Unfortunately, your sadness or luckily for us was a solution that prevented the cycle of enlargement and also cleaned up what had already been poorly entered. For example, your coalition contract states that compulsory education will be free of charge. The measure you are proposing is the introduction of co-financing of textbooks. These are the textbooks that students now receive free of charge in the school fund. In the first paragraph you have written free education, in the second measure by which you deny it immediately. I want to know what's going to happen and why a ninth-grade student would have it because you're going to do that, and why you're going to have a first-class textbook or a fifth-grade textbook. It's a completely inappropriate measure. Speaking of civil society. You know, there are political representatives at the head of the unions, who have also run for office on the lists. Also at the head of the Chamber of Commerce, there is a representative of a political party who is likely to present an account to you in the short term. Also at the head of the Chamber of Commerce, an important civil institution, is a person who will be our fellow Member in a few days. In short, all these important institutions of civil society are still spinning in some way. And maybe one more question. Look, we didn't talk much about drugs in this National Assembly, for example, about an important social problem. We know that Slovenia is a transit route for drugs, that many of these drugs remain with us, that these drugs also go to a high society called Slovenia's high society. And I would like to know if the candidate in the internal field will be able to prepare measures to effectively combat such problems in our society. I hope you can do that. But I hope there will be as much commotion as possible between these words and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u159	Hello again! We must all wish to confirm as soon as possible all members of the government's team, that is, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers. However, since we have talked so much about women here today, and because there are only 7 mayors in 210 municipalities in Slovenia, there are currently 12 of us from 90 members of the National Assembly, let me say that I am happy and proud that this time there will be 5 women in the Government, so 26% of the government team will be women's sex this time, ministers. So I'm proud and I'll be happy to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Alan Bukovnik. We have concluded the list of applicants and I am concluding the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers as a whole. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac as Minister of Environment and Space, Mag. Mr Mitjo Gaspari, Minister for Development and European Affairs, Mr Gregor Golobic, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Ljubico Jelusic, Minister of Defence, Mrs Katarino Kresal, Minister of Home Affairs, Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, Dr. Matey Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, Dr. Igor Luksic, Minister of Education and Sport, Mr. Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, Mrs. Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, mag. Mr. Milan Pogačnik for Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Ivan Svetlik for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs. Majdo Širca Ravnikar for Minister of Culture, Dr. Patrick Vlačič for Minister of Transport, Mr. Aleš Zalar for Minister of Justice, Mr. Samuel Žbogar for Minister of Foreign Affairs and Dr. Boštjan Žekš for Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation of voice. First of all, I will open up an opportunity to explain my vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Opening login option. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u161	Thank you. Hello again. It won't be the most on behalf of the people's party, but I can't help but say what I mean. Mrs Majda Potrata, Mr Bojan Čepič, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Vili Rezman, Mr Ljubo Germič, Mr Villa Trofenik, Mr Milan Gumzar, Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Ivo Vajgl, and I could also list them, Mr Janez Ribič of the Slovenian People's Party. Are we really such loleks that we don't have our own representative in the government from northeastern Slovenia?Oh, my God! I will therefore vote against this government because part of Slovenia is not included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of the parliamentary group have already expressed their views on individual candidates in the vote on the individual candidates' presentations. Where we were satisfied with the answers, we did not oppose or support the candidate, but unfortunately there were few such candidates. Most of the presentations were inconclusive, eloquent, evasive, unconvincing. It must also be said that they had a difficult job because the coalition agreement did not allow them to do so, because it lacked important structures and often had to express their views, not the position of the coalition agreement. Regrettably, candidates have repeatedly advocated, or expressed, too many different views, on those enshrined in the coalition contract or in the coalition agreement, and we find that they represented alternative views. This year, the Commissioner announced when he had this campaign in Slovenia, that Slovenia could lead better, that it could achieve higher economic growth, that it could even increase the budget surplus, that we could go faster, closer to Europe than we have done and that it has done so far. That we will also have, say, a lower public debt. However, there are no such commitments in this coalition agreement, although the climate for such a decision is more than favourable. We are in a much better situation than in 2004, when these commitments entered into a coalition agreement, but you do not hope to do so. In fact, the only commitment from these hirings is a statement made by the Finance Minister's candidate, who said that there would be a minimum wage of 1,000 euros. But there is also a problem. For when we asked the other two candidates, Mr Lahovnik, Mr Gaspari, they did not want to define themselves, nor did they want to draw attention to this objective. On the other hand, the tendency to increase the influence of civil society can also mean that there will be increased vigilance for lobbyist groups. This is also one of the potential dangers and, given who civil society is and how these things have happened so far, this can happen in its entirety. Although we will not support the list of candidates in our Group of Members, this does not mean that we will not decide individually on the proposed measures. We will certainly support good measures and can also support us in these measures [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u165	Mr President, I mentioned earlier that we have an extremely bad Rules of Procedure that does not allow candidates to look them in the eye and that they would look us in the eye. I propose that we violate the Rules of Procedure so that, during the vote of Members, we sit here in the Chamber, so that they will be forced to look Members in the eye, so that they will not work behind their backs and against Members during their term of office. We have such a stupid Rules of Procedure, I have always opposed him and I ask that we take this counter-business decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The fact is that the College of the National Assembly has adopted certain protocol rules, which allow or require candidates or already elected ministers to appear in the Chamber after the final vote. Of course, those ministers, who are Members, are already in the Chamber so that I am sure they would not change these rules, and I believe that you will soon see them in the Chamber of the honourable Member and, of course, you will see them all four years and, of course, you will be able to observe and obey them. Thank you very much. So I give the floor to Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u167	Dear Mr. President of the Government. I personally will not support your proposal, because I do not believe in the team, but I would gladly vote for at least two or three candidates if possible. I'm sure you didn't have a happy hand in this choice, not because you didn't want to choose different teams yourself, but because you had a lot of solutions in this coalition kitchen that I know you didn't want to support. So, no matter what, I hope that with this team that will be elected today, you will be able to overcome all the challenges that lie ahead. And despite the fact that I will not support this team, you can count on all the support, as has been said many times by me and the Slovenian Democratic Party, when you will need this support in decisions that are important for Slovenia and its development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. Nor will I support the proposal of Prime Minister Borut Pahor for a few reasons. The first is that, in fact, the very thing has already begun unhappiness. The writers of the coalition contract are not at the same time the ones they will implement and therefore friction has already begun between their views, views and, of course, written down. Of course, it's not a good trip. Moreover, we also noticed different positions of candidates on the same subject in the hirings. Nor is this a good way to say that, at the outset, when there is no need to make a proposal when it is only necessary to express an opinion, it speaks differently about the same proposal as that enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. But most of all, Mr. President of the Government, I am disappointed that apparently there is no capable Posavnik who could be a minister. Even more, there is no Dolenjec, nor any Belokran. And the problem is, unfortunately, respected, I have a special relationship that if someone is born in a place, leaves it and never returns, it's probably somewhere else, and that's where he was born. Well, that's a big problem, too. Because the Ljubljana "dream team" will be very, very difficult to solve some of the accumulated problems that we have tried to solve in the past, and perhaps because of some of the failed projects we have not had a happy hand, in particular, regionalisation and thus consistent regional development. I believe or want to believe that in the future you will have a happier and more effective hand and that you will actually be optimistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I said earlier in the opinion of the parliamentary group and stressed that the ministerial teams in the Slovenian People's Party or in the parliamentary group will not be supported, even because the government is primarily responsible for the election of the coalition. And I think that's the right decision. However, I guarantee that the government and the government coalition will not simply oppose a priori, but we will support all the good proposals and we will be critical enough for those whom we consider different solutions must be made for it. So, we're going to be a constructive opposition. And since I have no doubt that this team, this government will be elected today, of course, I want the government not only to start a good job, but especially to work well as long as it remains in these positions, of course for the benefit of Slovenia and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President of the Government, candidates and candidates for ministers of my ninth Slovenian government! Of course, it would be abnormal and unnatural for the opposition to support the coalition government. For the first time, because the coalition is the one that, and the Prime Minister of the government, has put together a team that trusts her. And I think that's perfectly normal. It is also normal to trust and, on the one hand, control or control democracy. In order for this control to be good, the opposition is needed. And that's what we're gonna do, like the opposition. Another time. I will also not support this government for the reason that it is or is, in particular, Minister Karl Erjavec, who did not wish to be at this ministry. Because you have drawn him to this ministry, of course more from the DeSUS Group, which is a city and because you have attracted two other ministers who were not at all, not by their choice or by choice of DeSUS. And yet, for the third time. The reason we don't support your ministerial team is, I'm afraid there are also some of those that have been in previous governments for 12 years, and of course they have done a lot of damage in this particular area, and this has been done both in privatization, in the place of social property, corruption, in justice, along with politics and in the economy. Unfortunately, Mr. President, even a few of those inside, I hope you know how to separate this weed from good, that is, what it is. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u174	Thank you very much. So, I'm going to the vote. Mr Jerovšek, I have already given this explanation twice. I called for an explanation of the voice. This time, except for you, all the other 89 Members and Members of Parliament will be asked to explain their vote. So, again, I'm calling for a vote. Peace in the hall. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u175	Dear Mr. President of the Government. I can't just talk to you and look you in the eye, and I have to say that I trust you and believe in your commitment to democracy. However, it has been shown in the hirings that the coalition treaty or agreement has been imposed on other parties, Octorated and I am sure that you have also been poisoned by the Secretary-General of the Government, and you will be surrounded there. The fact that the more dogmatic part of the party poisoned some ministers of DeSUS, imposed them, took the legitimacy of the President of DesSUS. And these are the terrible conditions in which this government is taking place. That is why, I must say, I fear such a change in the future, which has been announced as a positive virtue, and it seems that the password of this government or the way in which it works will be what your Member, Mr Brulc, has said in hiring that democracy is going beyond all borders. It looks like democracy is about to be destroyed here. It will try and weigh in on the situation that was in this hall 20 years ago. At that time they said that democracy was going across all borders and because you did not convince me that in such situations the government created could work for the people, it could work for Slovenia, which is necessary to act, of course I will vote against. Although I have said that I will also support those credible and competent candidates whose integrity and expertise I want to protect by not confirming them as members of such a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I'm going to the vote. We therefore vote on the proposed decision. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to read that 86 Members and Members are present for a vote of 56 to 30. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. I invite ministers and ministers to occupy the seats dedicated to the Government in the Chamber. They'll be the first ones in the hall. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] So, I congratulate ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and wish to carry out their ministerial duties successfully. [[...]] I ask the newly appointed ministers and ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Environment and Space, will be the first to swear. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u177	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u178	I ask that Master Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a department responsible for development and European affairs, swear. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u179	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u180	Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u181	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u182	Please swear by Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u183	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being and security of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u184	I ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u185	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u186	I'm asking him to swear on Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u187	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u188	Please swear by Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u189	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u190	Please swear by Mr Bortu Miklavčič, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u191	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u192	Please swear by Dr. Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u193	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u194	They switched. There's no big deal. You swapped two names so you could sort it out. Let him sign the document that he is. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u195	Please swear by Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u196	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u197	I'm asking him to swear by the Mag. Zlata Plosteiner, Minister without a Resource, responsible for local self-government and regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u198	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u199	Please swear by Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u200	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u201	Please swear by Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u202	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work hard and work for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u203	I ask Mrs Majda Shirca Ravnikar, Minister of Culture, to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u204	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u205	Please swear by Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u206	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u207	Please swear by Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u208	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u209	I ask Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u210	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u211	Please take the oath of Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian nationalities of the community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u212	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u213	The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u214	Honourable Members and Members, President of the National Assembly. Thank you so much for being so trusting. This trust goes beyond the size of the votes of coalition parties. It has also been given by Members and Members who have not affected the coalition treaty and recognise it, and in particular it is sufficient grounds for ministers and ministers to trust the Government. This government, though coalition, will act as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which must have the interest and needs of all people, whether they enjoy its support or not. As it is said, this government understands that Slovenia is going at a time of uncertainty which requires one policy of consensus. I commit myself to it and at the same time thank all of those, and this was practically all of you who expressed your willingness to give us the opportunity to create the atmosphere of this consensus and as winners, as a representative we will bring Slovenia forward to the club of developed and solidarity countries. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, and his ministers and ministers for all they have done for Slovenia in the last four years. The legacy of this government allows us to face economic uncertainty better prepared than we could be if the Government did not take some important strategic measures that provide us with a well-throwing board in this regard. In particular, I would like to thank the President of the Government for bringing the transition of one authority to another this month, and to coordinate with me the two most important issues that have been raised at this time, namely the issues of financial or economic uncertainty and foreign policy. They have also resolved a number of other issues, allowing us to make only formal transfers in its premises. I would like to say that not only are they domestic, but, as was said, also foreign observers have noticed that Slovenia has carried out this transition in a very mature way during this difficult time. Without both sides acting responsibly, I would not look with such courage and optimism at the possibility that we will succeed as a representative below. Ministers and ministers of my government will act, as they say, on their conscience. I don't expect them to always do what I can to suggest. All in a row are sovereign personalities, people who think with their heads. Of course, we are not talking about this high National Assembly, which is obliged to vote on its conscience and is not bound to any leadership. Not only Members and Members of the opposition parties, but also Members and Members of the ruling coalition. At this temple, ministers and ministers will be returned every time we consider ourselves invited to do so. I will be alone, as I have promised, with the circumstances we are witnessing to them, in this National Assembly more than Members and Members have been accustomed to. Again, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your confidence. Tomorrow's a new day, working for the government. We are soon seeing here with proposals sent to the National Assembly by the Government, which concluded today with a mandate and with new proposals to be put to the debate by the new government. Here we are committed to cooperation, I believe in cooperation, I believe in the success of our country. That's what people who have been trusting us with fate for the next four years deserve. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u215	Because they were Members of Parliament and Members, Mr Gregor Golobič, Mrs Katarina Kresal, Dr. Franz Križanič, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Dr. Igor Lukšič, Mrs. Majda Širca Ravnikar and Dr. Patrick Vlačič, appointed ministers and ministers, are temporarily unable to perform their duties under Article 14 of the Law on Members. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidates will replace those Members and Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandates and report on its findings to the assembly. I thank the Members and Members who have been appointed ministers and ministers for their work so far. I invite all ministers and ministers to the lobby of the great hall. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We'll continue the session at 7.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u216	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're continuing our session. Please take your seats in the hall. We're going through 3. IN 4. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a decision on the amendment of the decision on the level of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in 2008 and a proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in 2009. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 5. 11. For consideration by the National Assembly, 2008 submitted the allocation of funds for the co-financing of the parties in 2008 and 2009. In this regard, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice prepared and submitted proposals for decisions to the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its 14th meeting. 11. 2008 decided to hold a joint debate on both proposals for conclusions. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to present both proposals for conclusions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u217	Dear Mr. President. As it is said, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at an urgent session of 11. 11. 2008 considered the proposal for the distribution of funds for co-financing by the parties submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. At its meeting on 29 February 2008, the National Assembly adopted, in accordance with the provision of Article 23, paragraph 4, of the Political Parties Act, a decision on the amount of funds belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2008. This Decision established the amount of resources belonging to individual political parties in 2008 on the basis of the results of the 2004 national elections. According to the election of Members of the National Assembly, held on 21. 9. 2008 and in accordance with the report on the outcome of the ordinary elections of Members to the National Assembly and Article 23 of the Political Parties Act, it is thus necessary to redefine beneficiaries and individual amounts belonging to each political party from the State budget for the period September 2008 to including December 2008, while voting on the total amount of funding for 2008 remains unchanged. We have two conclusions in front of us. The first decision concerns the amendment of the decision already adopted and is valid for the period from September 2008 to December 2008 and the second decision relating to 2009. If I wanted to read all these amounts and so on, it would probably take too long. You have received both conclusions in writing, so I suggest that we decide, if you agree, on the basis of the decision you have before you and not read it with all these amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-21-SDZ5-Izredna-02.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Here comes a presentation of the parliamentary groups on both proposals for conclusions. The word has magic. Franc quits. With this, we no longer have a presentation of the parliamentary groups, we have concluded with this presentation and we do not have any reported debaters at this point. I conclude the debate on both proposals for conclusions. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposals for decisions and that the National Assembly will therefore vote on each proposal for a decision separately. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2008. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2009. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. I also conclude the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and, of course, nice greeting and good night.
