ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Franc [[Ferry]] Horvath, Mr. Ivan Yelen, mag. Anton Rob and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence reports on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission in the summer of 2006. The report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I give the floor to the President of the Commission to Mr Drag Kos for further explanation of the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It is very sad that it is only after more than a year that we are considering this report on our work in 2006. Not only because some of the statistics on work vary greatly from then on to now, but also because the report would have been considered at least when it was addressed by the Council of State and the Commission of the National Assembly under the anti-corruption law, some measures could have been taken and some positive changes could have been made in the area I am talking about today. I believe that you have read the report yourself, so I will not update it, I would like to point out only some of the problems that have been in place at the time and are, to some extent, still present today. In 2006, 227 municipal councillors and councillors did not report their assets. Today, there are only 73 of them. We estimate that in this case it was their conscious decision before the end of the term of office, which the Commission was unable to sanction adequately because of the amendments and the requirements of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As a particular problem, we have been exposed to the incompatibilities of the functions of mayors and directors of public institutions, in most cases of schools. There have been nine such cases. We have found that the concept of pre-negotiation of conflicts between personal interests and public interests of persons with public authority in their workplace is not yet a concept that is very much in force in the Republic of Slovenia. In 2006, the institution's reporting on the gifts received by their officials was not yet the most received. At that time, there were as many as 106 who did not report the gifts received, today or in 2007 we were able to convince all the institutions that they had done so. The National Assembly of the previous reference adopted the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia as a national anti-corruption strategy and is intended to serve in advance the elimination of conditions and circumstances that condition the emergence and development of corruption, but we must find that this resolution is planned, but only within its modest financial and human resources capabilities, and is currently only working for the Commission to prevent corruption. Public opinion polls have shown us that we need to be concerned, especially because of the increasing influence of patronage and nepotism on the functioning of Slovenian companies, including the large ones. In local environments, the Commission also notes a large number of highly innovative infringements of basic legal and ethical principles. At the national level, there are fewer of these violations, but they are much more dangerous and cause much more damage. The Commission estimates that the narrow throat in the field of curbing corruption in Slovenia is still our police. People are increasingly afraid to report corruption and similar acts, with a large number of irregular silences being detected at local level on the environment of known violations. Codes of conduct, commonly referred to as ethical codes, are still not recognised enough as a serious guide for the conduct of the persons concerned. Most people don't even know them. Most of all, the outdatedness and unusability of the public service code of conduct will be in sight, especially because it refers to a very large number of employees in the public sector. One of the most important areas for preventing corruption in the country, this is the area of financing political parties and electoral campaigns, which is hardly a serious debate in the country. The style of political parties in this area is almost perfect. In the international field, the Commission remains desirous of success and recognition, and in particular has actively cooperated with international institutions that monitor and assess the state of the country in the area of prevention and suppression of corruption. In this regard, the cooperation of the Commission with the OECD is particularly evident in the light of Slovenia's entry into this organisation. At the home site, the Commission was forced to monitor the planned destruction of all serious anti-corruption activities and, unfortunately, also the active establishment of conditions for the spread of true systemic corruption, which Slovenia has managed to avoid in its current path. Despite all the warnings, Slovenia has still not acceded to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, and I really hope that this will happen today. And to conclude. If certain political and corruption practices continue, if the value of the legal norm in the country continues to decline, if the entire system of social control for violators of legal and ethical standards poses no absolute threat and if the state authorities and local authorities are [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Communities have neglected their planned work in the field of ethics, the Commission is afraid that we will soon find ourselves in a situation from which our neighbouring countries have already managed to get rid of. [[...]] I am thinking mainly of Croatia and Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kos, President of the Commission. The report was also addressed by the Commission under the Anti-Corruption of Corruption Act as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and also the Government Representative. At its 14th meeting, on 9 June and 18.10.2007, the Commission considered the report on the Commission's work on anti-corruption in 2006, submitted by the Anti-Corruption Law under Article 13 of the Anti-Corruption Act to be considered by the Anti-Corruption Commission. Under the anti-corruption law, the Commission has examined the report in accordance with Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the State Parliament at a closed meeting. Following the conclusion of the debate, following the anti-corruption law, the Commission decided: "The Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, under the anti-corruption law, proposes, pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that the State Assembly consider at one of the following meetings the Commission's Report on the Prevention of Corruption in 2006. This decision was also adopted unanimously by the Commission. The members then moved, for the purposes of the plenary session, to draw up proposals for decisions to be adopted by the National Assembly after the conclusion of the discussion. The members of the Commission also considered the draft proposals for conclusions of 2.7.2007 prepared by the Commission's office and the amendments of three members of the Commission: Mr Dimitri Kovacic, Mr Mir Petk and Mr Draga Koren to these proposals for conclusions of 6.7.2007. The amendments of the parliamentary group, then unrelated Members, now of the Zares Group, received by the Commission on 6.7.2007, were also addressed. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Law, a decision has been taken if it has received the support of a majority of the votes of all members, i.e. at least four members of the Commission. Due to the composition of the committee at the time of the vote, the ratio of forces was such that only four conclusions were given support, which were also presented in the material to address today's point. Following the anti-corruption law, the Commission therefore proposes to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following proposals for conclusions after the discussion on the Commission's 2006 Anti-Corruption Report: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the Report on the Commission's work to prevent corruption in 2006. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible for consideration and adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the competent state authorities to pay particular attention to the prevention, detection and prosecution of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia." Fourth conclusion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on all state authorities and local community bodies to put more effort into raising people's awareness that corruption and its prevention are primarily an individual and its decisions."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Davorin Terčon will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, welcome. Before today's meeting in the National Assembly, at which Members will consider the report on the work of the anti-corruption commission, we have reviewed what the coalition has done in the fight against corruption. She made a lot of promises. Indeed, in the Group of Members we find that preventing corruption is not a priority for the current authorities. When SDS, Nis, SLS and DeSUS signed a coalition treaty after the 2004 elections, they set themselves one of the main objectives of the fight against corruption. The Coalition Treaty has committed, inter alia, to working for more important political projects, including the fight against corruption, through the permanent coordination groups of ministers. However, special attention will be paid by the coalition, as stated in the Treaty, to the normative definition of the liability of persons empowered to carry out public procurement lawfully and economically, and to the sanctioning of breaches of public procurement rules in order to prevent and eliminate corruption in the public administration and the public sector as a whole. Neither did the former head of the government strategic council, Mr Marjan Senjur, forget corruption. Corruption in general and corruption in relation to foreign investments are among the tasks of the Government Strategic Council. That prevention of corruption is not a priority of the current authorities, we are assessing on the basis of the conduct of individual national authorities, which, both in principle and at the implementation level, create conditions that do not sufficiently prevent corruption. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the gap between the declarations made by the executive representatives on the fight against corruption and their concrete actions, which is a negative choice for the conduct of individual national and local authorities in preventing corruption. The abolition of the anti-corruption commission and its work has also significantly exacerbated the fight against corruption. Otherwise, the greatest deterioration in the public procurement situation is observed, followed by patronage, customerism, nepotism, conflicts of interest. Given that the current coalition came into power with passwords on corruption and customerism, its avoidance of regulating this area in line with modern international standards puts it in a strange light. That corruption is more than that, according to some public surveys, there is also a dominant public opinion. Has corruption thus decreased or increased? We believe it has increased. Indeed, several systemic conditions have been created for corruption to spread. However, compared to previous years, the main improvement has been that people are clearly not afraid to report suspicions of corruption. Last year, the commission had 595 applications, and since our establishment in 2004, a total of 588. So within two years and three months, they received fewer applications than they did last year. In addition, we are facing a special report from the OECD's relevant working body, which notes with concern that Slovenia is going backwards in the fight against corruption. The level of awareness of the problem is low. The OECD was also concerned about the announced abolition of the anti-corruption commission. So what was done? Of the more repugnant cases, we have not actually witnessed anything other than resignation. In these cases, however, corruption is not necessarily involved. But remember, the Kentucky tunnel, the Clinical Center, the disputed distribution of public funds, the alleged purchase of the healer and wristwatches purchased from the Owl Fund. But our criticism is not addressed to the criminals themselves, but mainly to the police and the Ministry of the Interior, because it is more than obvious that the criminals involved in corruption are not enough. They have recently been exposed to constant reorganisations, mainly in specialised anti-corruption units. Their work is undervalued, and they also lost a lot of key people. Let us also draw attention to the Government's unjustified efforts to abolish the anti-corruption commission. According to the proposal of the most recent law, the Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Functioning Operators, the Commission has tried to abolish the Commission through Jelinčič's law and, more recently, through the Act on the Ratification of the UN Convention against Corruption, the Commission is scheduled to operate until 1 January 2009. The Anti-Corruption Commission was established by the Anti-Corruption Act adopted in December 2003 by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. By its work, the Commission, which was appointed on 19.4.2004, one member was appointed subsequently, namely 22.7.2004, started on 1 October 2004. The Commission started its work only after the Rules of Procedure on its work were adopted, before which the anti-corruption tasks were carried out by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to prevent corruption. Given that the mandate of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for six years, without the possibility of reappointment, the Commission should end its mandate in 2010. In order to shorten the Commission's mandate, the Government did not state any reasonable and justified reasons, except that we are aware of the fact that it wants to end the disturbing Commission as soon as possible and, above all, its President. In shortening the Commission's mandate, however, it is even clearer that the rationality and austerity cited by the Government as the reason for the Commission's ongoing abolition for anti-corruption for several years have been empty of excuses, which have now been confirmed by the planned use of budgetary resources for the new budgetary users. The most recent Government Act on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Functional Operators provides that the control of the incompatibility of functions will be taken over by hundreds of bodies, 210 municipal, judicial, state-level, national council, the Court of Auditors and others. Therefore, in the Group of Members, it is indeed assessed that the Commission's proposal for the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to make the situation worse against corruption is not sufficiently addressed and we propose that the conclusions be supplemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. The report, which we have had the opportunity to review, is assessed by the DeSUS Group as properly prepared, as structurally appropriate, rather comprehensively equipped with the necessary data, in order to create an image of the situation and trends in this area. It is noted that the Anti-Corruption Commission has a relatively good self-image and that it does not in any way agree to the fact that it is merely a Toothless Institution. We also assess ourselves in this way, so as you know, we have never agreed to quit or to reduce its role or independence and we will support it in the future. Whether some of the benefits of this report are directly linked to the work of the Commission or not, this is of course a matter of reflection, but it is noticeable that at least some negative trends in this area are halting. It is noticeable that somehow a general anti-corruption culture is improving, perhaps even the most important of all. The Commission, which also has a relatively good reputation in the public, probably cannot be denied. Some other information also suggests that there is no longer the evasion of public officials in relation to reporting on their assets, that this is less and less at local level, that this is becoming less and less among those who are non-professional officials, that the interest and intensity of preparation, integrity plans and some other similar facts are evidence that we cannot possibly agree to another assessment presented in the report, but that the situation is nonetheless extremely worrying. Such an assessment would probably be difficult to attract. However, it is probably worrying in certain areas, which are also particularly exposed. We are in favour of some of the conclusions adopted on the second anti-corruption commission - let us say so, the State-dependent anti-corruption commission - being supported. In fact, we do not see any reason for, for example, rejecting the first amendment, the first, the second and the third. Because according to our judgment, they're benign, and if I didn't write them, if the opposition hadn't proposed them, we would actually have to. They only discuss how further work in this area should be strengthened and how material and financial support should also be provided. What is clear is that the coalition will not support is perhaps just a proposal for the last decision, which implicitly speaks of the holding of coalitions and governments by hypocrisies; thus speaking and doing one. For other proposals for conclusions, however, we do not have any specific concerns in the DeSUS Group when we ask whether they are worth supporting or not. We also agree with some of the assessments made by the Commission, which it considers to be impeding or making its work more difficult. This is certainly pressure, constant pressure on the abolition of an independent institution, and we do not associate it with name and leadership. We are dealing with an independent institution, and it is likely that financial and human resources obstacles are placed before the Commission and that all the work it sets out to do cannot be achieved through its programme. In order for the work of this Commission to be as good as possible, we will support the draft report. We will also support at least most of the additional proposed conclusions or amendments that we will receive or receive on the table by the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable present. A general well-known fact in Slovenia is that if we want to cover something up, it is necessary to set up a commission. And that's what he's holding. What we have heard today is a sad fact and an even more sad fact is that the President of the Commission finds that the police are a narrow throat to prevent corruption. The police should be the kind of law enforcement agency that would essentially do this national duty. And yet here we also find from our own experience that this is not the case. Of course, I have to oppose my colleague Tarčon when he says that in the Slovenian National Party, through this law, we wanted to meet the government and, after the Government's dictatorship, we wanted to abolish Kosovo's commission somewhere. That's just not true. We have made a clear appeal that the Commission, such as it is, without any authority - should not even be paid by the State. That was an appeal, that was the point. We also mentioned a number of cases at that time. I myself have had presentations that, in fact, Mr Kos himself cannot fight forever for wages and actually fight forever to provide administrative and technical conditions for his workers and fight for those, I don't know, everyday existence. If the Commission were to take the State seriously, it should have full powers, in fact, a right hand should also be a law enforcement body and should also be linked to the judiciary. Those cases which the Commission would prioritise should be dealt with by the Court for the purpose of preventing or preventing the recurrence of criminal offences. We don't have that in Slovenia. Even though our President has determined whose ships are tied up, I speak for the Prime Minister of the Government, how the money has come to Slovenia and so on and so forth. Look at my case. Maximum damage to state property in Primorska. The biggest damage to state property in Primorsk - the sale of General Navigation. Kosovo Commission - I'm sorry, because this is how I refer this committee, will be easier to understand - has firmly responded to our claims. There's a suspicion of a crime, they wrote it down. And they gave it to the police. The police, who should be pursuing, the judiciary, the Court of Auditors, which should be reviewing, have done nothing to date. The treaty was signed at Dr. Bajuk's office behind closed doors and Bajuk answers me that, to the extent that I have the data - this data is about half a metre to inform the law enforcement authorities, which Mr Kos finds to be a bottleneck to prevent corruption! Who's basically lying to who here in Slovenia right now? I don't know if there's any other principle. I don't think she's here. The fact that it's all "bluff", forgive me, also shows the conclusions taken. All the conclusions put to the debate of the Commission and which were well-intentioned are rejected. For example, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide information on the occurrence of corruption as soon as possible." But the Prime Minister said he knew about corruption. Then why don't we do something about it? Why is this not, however, a normal decision that the Commission could adopt and give Mr Kos the opportunity to work? No, no, no. We have a commission to have it, to talk about fighting corruption. It is corruption, and those who have become rich and greased their bank accounts are in influential positions today! In positions of influence. And I'm afraid that this commission would really work so that we don't have a government, and maybe half of the successful directors of the so-called successful directors. Because you know, to buy a company by setting up unpurchased shares, we all know that. I'm stressing again. This commission, with these powers it has today, is irrelevant. If we go to real prevention and the fight against corruption, then we will set up a commission with full powers to fight corruption. Thank you very much. Of course this report, because it is in principle, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much again for your word. When a colleague in front of me was talking about principle. The report makes it very clear that there is something very wrong in our anti-corruption system. Something very wrong not with the system of prevention or prevention of corruption, but with the anti-corruption system when corruption is suspected. The figures in the 2006 report show that there is a very large difference between what the Anti-Corruption Commission has come to and between the figures that speak of police reports. Why? Maybe it's because people are afraid to officially report corruption in our country. Because they're afraid of sanctions, because in our system, the politicized system, it's coming. But yesterday we had the Minister of the Interior. We've decided on the interpretation against him. There has been a debate in this House for more than 12 hours. And some have spoken out loud about how good the Minister is, how we want him in the coming term, that the Minister and the police are not actually guilty of corruption in our country. Nor did the Minister give any answer to the questions why the police did not respond when there were very clear warnings of the suspicion of corruption, the Commission's principled opinions on anti-corruption. The police did not react, nor in that infamous case of tax counseling within the framework of the Paediatric Clinic, a respected colleague and colleague! This is a reality that is worrying. This is a reality that tells us that there is no going to be an end to the prevention commission. But he's talking about giving this committee, if you want, teeth or more powers. The report before us today - yes, it would make sense to deal with it earlier. But since the practice of the National Assembly has also been so, the report is only today, more than a year after the state covered by the report, ahead of us. But it's the right thing to do. It correctly summarises the Commission's report or work on anti-corruption in 2006. I will only touch on certain points. The report is extensive. Unfortunately, time is not enough. As anti-corruption culture of citizens and citizens of Slovenia is generally strengthened, there is an increase in the number of detected cases. Other data, in particular the Commission's findings on the prevention of corruption, show that the situation of corruption in the country is also deteriorating objectively. That's what's worrying. One of the main reasons for this negative trend is that it is estimated that the efficiency of social control institutions, in particular detection and prosecution bodies, is poor. That's what I was talking about in the beginning. I said that there was a multi-hour debate yesterday on why detection and prosecution bodies were not effective. Actually, we haven't heard back yet. But the minister is good. This system is obviously good. The report criticises that in 2006 there were several government activities in the Republic of Slovenia that directly oppose the anti-corruption objectives of the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, they create an environment that promotes and enables corruption to grow instead of prevention. I don't even know if it makes sense to keep mentioning laws and all the procedures that actually sought to put an end to corruption prevention by the Commission. You know that the government's wish is that the government that built the electoral campaign on the three K's - corruption, customerism, economic crime, that the government's desire to entangle this area - corruption, customerism and economic crime. The translation of the documents to be decided at the end of the meeting is also very clear. This is the UN Convention on the Prevention of Corruption. Even in translating the English text into Slovenian, this Government added its political note or trend, which speaks of the need to abolish an independent body in our country concerned with preventing corruption. In doing so, I rightly wonder what is being implemented into our legal order under the pretext of only translating declarations and resolutions. But more about that at this point. Despite years of confusion, uncertainty as to whether the Commission will be abolished, who will be responsible and how it will prosecute corruption, the Commission has good results in terms of prevention. People trust her as is evident from the accompanying report. The number of cases identified where the Commission has experienced a genuine potential for corruption on the basis of applications exceeds the figures recorded by the police or the prosecution. Why? Obviously also because people are simply afraid to report suspected corruption for revenge. There are known cases. Yesterday, my colleague, Boštjan Zagorac, also mentioned an eloquent example of revenge. Within the police, where people say "fly" at home, if they point out violations of legislation or irregular transactions that are taking place. Well, here I can also mention the monthly calvary around the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Days ago, I was informed, including as President of the National Parliament's Anti-Corruption Commission, as well as as as a Member of the National Assembly - even secret documents were sent to the public, what was supposed to happen, but for this there are other authorities in our country, I believe, which are still, I say, ineffective, uninterested. The Commission's applications in 2006 have resulted in 263 applications, in some cases it can be concluded that, in the preparation and implementation of individual illegalities, there is an increasing number of planned integration between the various parts of the public and private sector and individuals, creating conditions for genuine systemic corruption in our country. And, of course, it also makes the work of anti-, detection, prosecution of corruption more difficult. Another matter of particular concern is that there is a dramatic deterioration in the situation of nepotism in the field of the economy. Another issue that is not to be overlooked with the left hand: that the cooperation of the anti-corruption commission - i.e. an independent body in our country, which should play a central role if our country really wants to build on corruption - was that cooperation with government authorities, individual ministries in 2006 was worse than in 2005, because simply mentioned, the government authorities were not interested in active cooperation in the fight against corruption. Since time is chasing me, let me just take it off. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members called Lipa, we will support the report because we consider it to be correct. We will also support the proposed conclusions, including the amendments. In this context, I am also saddened that the members of the Commission, all together, have not been able to achieve so much responsibility towards the common objective of reducing corruption in our country in order to support the substantive conclusions and amendments that have been proposed on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, president of the commission. First of all, I am pleased that the members of the National Assembly Commission have been able, under the anti-corruption law, to reject those proposed conclusions that have actually been poor, poorly prepared and inadequate. As for the report itself, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group notes that the Commission is obliged to report to the National Assembly on its work in order to prevent corruption in accordance with Article 13 of the Anti-Corruption Act. In accordance with its competences, the Commission has prepared its 2006 report, which therefore reflects what the Commission has actually been doing during this period, we do not oppose and accept it as such for information, although at the same time we find that the legislation in force in this area is weak and does not provide sufficient legal basis for all the activities carried out and recorded by the Commission in its 2006 report. In the first half of the current term of office, the National Assembly adopted a new Act on the incompatibility of functions, which replaced the current anti-corruption law, but the Constitutional Court found that it had established something contrary to the Constitution and ordered the National Assembly to amend it. The Government has therefore drawn up a new law on restrictions and prohibitions for public function holders, which makes it more clear that the restrictions on officials in their work and the incompatibilities of carrying out their functions with a gainful activity. There are also more precise obligations for officials to report information on their assets and sanctions in cases of non-compliance with their obligations under this Act. The role of the anti-corruption commission so far is expected to be taken over by the Court of Auditors, as an independent body, under the new law, and to a lesser extent by the State, provincial and municipal electoral commissions, the Council of Justice, the State Prosecutor's Council or the authority responsible for the appointment of an official. With these changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we expect less doubts and different interpretations of the laws to be determined than before, and only the work for which it is responsible on the basis of unequivocal legal provisions will be carried out by each body. We are also looking forward to an increase in professionalism and also an increase in autonomy, given that the current Commission has been rather inclined to politicise, which should not have been an institution with such powers. Thus, the Court of Auditors is certainly a greater guarantor for such an independent state of affairs for such autonomy as the current commission and as the current commission. Indeed, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption under the Anti-Corruption Act, despite its name in the law currently in force, does not in fact have a legal basis for combating corruption or for the direct prevention of corruption. The law gives it powers to determine the irreconcilability of functions, to collect assets and also to collect certain other information on officials, about their gifts and similar, some enforcement functions that would measure effective fighting or preventing corruption, but currently there is no legislation in force. That is why we often talk about the commission as a bottomless institution. It follows from the report on the Commission's work on anti-corruption that full control of officials' assets for 2006 has been carried out, namely from the data provided by officials to the Commission on the basis of specific forms. The Commission has also addressed certain issues related to the non-compatibilities of functions with operating restrictions, recorded received gifts from officials and, on the basis of such data, also adopted certain measures in accordance with its competences. In addition, the Commission has also reviewed the status of implementation of the Resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia and the public opinion on the state of corruption in our country. Such analyses are certainly interesting and show a certain picture of the situation and phenomena in the field of corruption. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, however, they are not sufficient to capture and crediblely demonstrate all the dimensions of corruption, their causes and offer the right ways to effectively combat and persuade corruption. The Commission's greatest weakness during this period covered by the report is, in our view, fundamental opinions. Here, in our view, the Commission has embarked on a rather slippery ice, for the advisory and educational tasks of the Commission are, among other things, also determined to give principled opinions and to explain the incompatibility, gifts and other issues related to the content of the Law on the Persuading of Corruption. In the opinion of the Institute of Public Administration, this action or such a way of working is quite controversial, for even if we understand this task - that is to say, giving principled opinions or that the Commission can give principled opinions outside counseling and education, so without being asked for a principled opinion - the opinion of the Institute of Public Administration must be in principle. This means, in particular, that it must not refer to a specific case, which means an analysis and an investigation into a particular case and, in particular, that it is not possible to conclude from the opinion in principle who the Commission has addressed to the opinion in principle. In these principled opinions, however, it is really about addressing concrete events, concrete people and accounting, I will say, political accounting with concrete people. It is also interesting that, for example, principled opinions, or, in some cases, for example, many donations that have been widely accepted in a congregation and on this basis received certain transactions, have been collected for the purpose of carrying out certain transactions. This is an undisputed activity because it is those on the 'politically right side', while in other cases it is political accounting with people who are not 'on the right side'. And of course this kind of politicization is not in place for such an institution. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that, despite certain shortcomings of the Commission's report on anti-corruption work, which I have also mentioned, a report provides a basis for further work by the Commission and other bodies which will take over existing competences in the future. In addition, the results identified by the Commission in the area of the detection of corruption will be useful to some extent, and this will lead to anti-corruption activities by the State and its competent authorities. We therefore support the adoption of a special appeal to the competent national authorities to give special attention to the prevention, detection and prosecution of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we want the National Assembly to call on all state authorities and local authorities to put more effort into raising people's awareness of corruption and its prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Honourable President of the Commission! Corruption is or is not, there can be no intermediate option. And we all agree today, even those who have had much to say in the last three years about the work and competence of the Commission that corruption in Slovenia is that it exists. Only the effects of prevention, and this also shows this report, are poor. And yesterday, we saw when we discussed the internal minister's interpretation that there were no major effects on this repressive body in the fight against corruption. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the findings and assessments contained in the Commission's 2006 correct report. And these, as you can see for themselves, are not the most favourable and optimistic, especially as regards the functioning of those authorities in the country responsible for not the best picture of preventing and eliminating this evil, that is corruption and clientelism. Otherwise, the approach to the anti-corruption commission can also be seen from the fact that we are considering the 2006 report in February 2008. In my view, this relationship shows that this same report could also be addressed in 2010. And not only that, this relationship also shows a level of readiness to deal with this social incompetence. And it's surprising that even though those of you who are three years ago, four years ago, have used a large part of their rhetoric and political energy to daily repeat their valuable judgment in style, "all are dirty, corrupt, all are corrupt, only we are not like that," today those who are not here in the Chamber remain silent or silent. Now that you are sitting in the official chairs, this is no longer a top topic for them; the subject on which much depends in this country, for you spoke three, four years ago. Today, however, anyone who points to the silence or white strike of the professional authorities in the country that should deal with it is immediately on the list of those who defile either the minister or the President of the Government, or the government or even the country abroad. Today's President of the Government, along with you sitting in the government's parliamentary benches, in 2004, criticised the current government at three extraordinary meetings to allow corruption to grow through various non-transparent transactions. And then you not only presented yourself as fighters against corruption and clementalism, but then you connected the biggest client with all the scandals and all the affairs that took place during that period, from SIB Bank, Orion, Zbiljski Gaj to Pediatric Clinic and so on. And this vigorous verbal fight against corruption did come at the polls. People believed that you would change things, that things would be different. I myself find, and also in the Group of Social Democrats, that the situation is no different, is no better, it is much worse than it was three, four years ago. As soon as you were sitting in the government palace, this energy and drive went out of control. Simply because, immediately after your arrival in power, you have embarked on the establishment of your own human resource clientele network at all levels and in all areas - not only in the economy, as it is most stressed. All we can think of is political compatibility with civil and state administration employees, and the real tsunami in the supervisory councils and administrations of companies and companies where they are sequestering their Kad and Court hunters, government funds, public institutions and more. Last year, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency came in line as the last. In the midst of this process, it has tried to quickly rescue the only disturbing body in the fight against corruption, this is the commission, so-called - as has been said today - for the sake of easier understanding - of the Kosovo Commission. And as stated in the 2006 report, the pressure to end the Commission has left an impact on the conduct of the public authorities and local authorities and officials to the Commission, its powers and its work. Despite these problems, however, it has been and the Commission is the only body that tries to deliberately prevent and limit corruption. In any event, we would say that it is the work of all other authorities in this country. Clearly, however, there are problems and behaviours of some state authorities, which at very specific levels point to an ideal situation for corruption, and we should be particularly concerned about the written assessment in the report, and I quote: "The situation is extremely worrying, not only does it not improve, but it is possible to see the planned collapse of all anti-corruption activities and the active exposure to conditions for the development and spread of true systemic corruption." Repeat, systemic corruption, end of quote. It's an assessment if it's true and even if it's partly true that it doesn't promise us anything good. And if one thinks what the consequences of this discussion may be at the beginning of my three-year exposure to the clientele network at all levels, then it is clear that this assessment is not entirely made of vines, because such a network is like a scar in which there must always be enough blood. And this is enough in this network, because today this network is used to find employment, to do business, to acquire public procurement, to access insider information that leads to the greatest possible profit and so on and so on and so forth. Of course, the question arises in itself why the former speakers of the fight against customerism are now shutting down, dismantling already exposed institutions, which could be successful in doing so also because nepotism and clientism are the means of concentration of political and governmental power the most effective means of maintaining these powers that you have in your hands today. And in the review for today's session, you can see for yourself why a number of amendments have been rejected on the committee to impose on some national authorities to take this issue more seriously. Only four were accepted, or general conclusions, which can also be found in the case of reporting on grass planting or the fight against the colored beetle. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the report, together with the conclusions and proposed amendments of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u18	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members, President of the Commission. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have reviewed the Commission's report on anti-corruption for 2006 and we view it as good, as exemplary, as structurally well-established, but of course we could say more at this point. I recommend, of course, that you look at chapters six and seven of your colleagues: one on the state of anti-corruption in the Republic of Slovenia and the seventh on the cooperation of the Commission to prevent corruption with other state authorities and local authorities. For these two chapters, of course, are still talking about what we are actually talking about here for the entire mandate. Of course, this commission is in some way unfortunate, i.e. from the first moment on, the existing coalition has decided to turn "the fight against K" into "the fight against Kosovo", not against corruption, not against clientism, not against crime, but against Drag Kos. I think he might be kind of proud to be so great in their eyes. But, of course, at that time, the commission experienced its own prey under its feet in all three years. The whole songbook was full of crap to prove how it didn't do what they thought it would do if we let it work. It's a complicated thing. And, of course, she's constantly being subdued by the fact that it's a toothless tiger. Of course it is and its purpose is so. The Anti-Corruption Commission is like a lock on the door: it does not allow anyone to come to a corrupt place. But if anyone comes, there are other authorities, the prosecutions and the police. And yesterday, we should be wondering in the desert, not on the ashtray today, it's another holiday. And that is why, of course, even in accordance with this holiday, ashing is not a reminder of others that they are fleeting but, above all, a reminder of yourself that you are fleeting - is it so, Mr President? If we look at the report, then we can see that things are actually really worrying, but they are also exciting. It is clear that people are much better aware, citizens, citizens, as well as business entities, of the role of the anti-corruption commission. However, at least one part of Parliament and one part of the Government are unaware of this. We have listened here a little earlier to a fellow prophet who has already predicted what will happen to this committee led by Mr Drago Kos, how it sucks, how all its work will be dispersed, allocated to different bodies and, above all, blurred. That's obviously the final plan. I hope everything happens before this plan starts to come true. The attitude towards the work of the Commission is also reflected in what happened on the parliamentary committee to oversee the commission on anti-corruption when amendments or amendments were not adopted or completed. In the Liberal Democracy we will adopt a report prepared by a exemplary, exemplary, even linguisticly correct, which is rare. This Commission, as well as all the conclusions and additions proposed so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good afternoon to Members, Members and President of the Commission, Mr Kos, and I can see our young people on the balcony! When we discuss the report on the Commission's work to prevent corruption, we must be aware that this is a debate on the work of the State authority set up by the Anti-Corruption Act. Since 2004, we have in Slovenia an authority whose tasks are defined in Articles 16, 17 and 18 of the Act. These articles discuss the systematic analytical tasks, the coordination tasks, the consultative, educational tasks of the Commission to help prevent corruption. By law, corruption is any violation of the duty of officials or responsible persons in the public or private sector, as well as the conduct of persons who are instigators of infringements or persons who may benefit from an infringement because of the directly or indirectly promised, offered or requested benefits for themselves or for others. Corruption is a phenomenon that harms both citizens and the country. It is an phenomenon that can destroy people's trust in state institutions. It can reduce political stability and social stability and hamper economic development. The work of the Commission should follow the guidelines set out in the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. The guidelines set out in this resolution seek to address corruption more appropriately. They focus on the basic objectives of prevention. The resolution even foresees measures that seek to eliminate conditions for the emergence and development of corruption in the long term. All of these are definitions and principles to be followed by the Commission in its work. And the Commission has to report on its work every year to the National Assembly. However, when reading the Commission's Work Report, it must be acknowledged that it is only difficult to understand what legal provisions the Commission carried out in 2006 or which guidelines or principles of the resolution followed in its work. We can learn how many officials reported their assets and how many they failed to fulfil. We can read how the Commission advised and formally answered questions about the incompatibility of functions. We find out that the Commission has drawn up a list of gifts received by officials. Above all, we can read about how the Commission should be the only body in Slovenia that takes its role in preventing corruption seriously and takes planned and priority action to address corruption. The report may even point to evidence from other competent national authorities such as the police and the competent ministries that their role in the anti-corruption process is passive and unrealistic. According to the report, the country has denied and allowed corruption to occur and develop. The Commission, however, is the one who takes a keen interest in matters and gives a good warning when, where and how people in Slovenia act corruptly. Unfortunately, in Novi Slovenija, we cannot agree with such allegations. We can't even accept them. For we believe that the competent state authorities of the Ministry, and not least the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are doing their work aimed at limiting and preventing corruption. It is clear that corruption is one of the biggest problems of modern society. Corruption is an phenomenon that has profoundly destructive consequences. And the problem needs to be tackled and all the strengths to get rid of it. If the Commission acts and acts effectively, more appropriate reports, more extensive analysis and research on corruption would be expected. Thus, the majority of the Commission seems to be connected only with the adoption and analysis of the reports on the assets of the officials and the preparation of the list of gifts. We believe that this can only be the basis on which the anti-corruption process can only begin. In New Slovenia, it seems unacceptable that the Commission takes the right to make the report on its work clear to other authorities, not to participate in the fight against corruption, to the government and the ministries, not to carry out their tasks and not to cooperate with the commission. In particular, we do not understand how, in the Commission's report, the Commission can identify itself as the only body working effectively and as a priority in preventing corruption. In the view of New Slovenia, such claims are unfounded and unfounded. However, we cannot avoid even the topic in the report, which discusses how the termination of the commission prevented employees from working in it 100% and as effectively as possible because they were concerned about their existence. I ask myself: What would be the consequences of such a situation at the Oncology Institute? What would happen if doctors at this institute were to work less intensively and not devote themselves to their substantive tasks because the state of the Institute is at risk? Would you therefore help to treat only some patients because they were too concerned about how the institute would work? In our view, all experts, including those on the committee, must work with full steam and maximum efficiency. That means they have to act professionally. And external factors must not have such a major impact on their effective functioning. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed conclusions. It is particularly important for us to talk about the adoption as soon as possible in the National Assembly of a bill on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We are confident that the adoption and approval of this Convention will constitute a step forward and that in Slovenia we will be able to regulate more precisely the legislation in the field concerned and to organise the necessary institution, which will contribute more effectively to the prevention of corruption. It also calls on all competent authorities to give particular attention to corruption in the prevention, detection and prosecution of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. Advocacy to people, informing people about corruption and its dangers and consequences will lead to the greatest step towards limiting and preventing corruption. As I said, in the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u22	Madam President, Mr Kos, Secretary of State, Ministry of the Interior, Members of Parliament. Hello, young visitors at the gallery. The report on the Commission's work to prevent corruption in 2006 shows that the supervision of officials' assets already brings a lot of work. Analysis and processing of all the data that officials are required to demonstrate under Article 37, paragraph 1, of the Anti-Corruption Act is, in fact, a great deal of work. The question is how far does this really work in the area of anti-corruption. The report mainly shows that all state-level officials reported their assets. All judges, prosecutors and defence attorneys also reported on the property situation. On the other hand, the forms did not give out a certain number of local officials. Which may indicate the need to consider whether the supervision of officials’ assets really needs to be carried out so widely. In fact, the verification of the property status of each municipal councillor is mildly ineffective. The Commission is also dealing with issues relating to the statutory incompatibility of functions. The most unclear is, therefore, the incompatibility within the meaning of Article 21 of the Anti-Corruption Act, which provides that non-professional officials shall not engage in management or representation activities in a public undertaking, public institution or public agency if they exercise control over their work by their functions. The Commission took the view that the role of the non-professional mayor was incompatible with the function of the principal of the primary school. Such an opinion was not agreed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Perhaps it would be best for the National Assembly to accept an authentic explanation of this provision. The Anti-Corruption Act also empowers the Commission to authorise legal entities to deal with contracting entities operating under public procurement rules. It is clear that the Commission issued four such licences in 2006. On the basis of the list of gifts to be managed by the authorities in which officials perform their functions, the Commission also produced a catalogue of gifts and published it on its website. For we know that the official must not receive gifts in relation to the performance of the function except for protocol gifts and optional gifts of minor value. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we find the most interesting results of public opinion research on the state of corruption in Slovenia. It's corruption. We all know that. However, the general belief of corruption and bribery in the public sector is somewhat calmed. It is right that such a social climate is established, reflecting the sensitivity of people and the very emergence of corruption. Corruption is not self-evident, and it is not something we should just accept. It is a sad fact that the majority of people have actually met with corruption in health care, in the work of police officers, in the work of pension workers, in the education sector, in the work of lawyers and employees in municipal administrations. What do we say? These are the areas where people are in themselves the most vulnerable, vulnerable. Do health care, police, education really work that badly? Or is it really necessary to tighten the persecution of corruption itself, raise penalties and, of course, improve legislation? Something has to be done. Not only to describe the corruption of an area, but primarily to prevent such a situation or to prosecute corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. So that there will be no mistake, no one blames the people, although it is not possible that this is perfectly okay, who are willing to do much in their tribulations just to please them in some area. That's not right. However, it is the officials who must by no means be receptive to such or other corrupt offers. Finally, let me just mention that in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we believe that the body or bodies acting in the field of anti-corruption must be independent and independent. We are pleased, however, that the draft law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption is also on the agenda of this meeting. We hope or are confident that it will be adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report. First of all, he has the word Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Kos, colleagues and colleagues! According to my assessment and my knowledge of the issue of combating corruption, we are in the National Assembly and in the public at a debate on the Commission's report on combating corruption in a strange situation. We're discussing a seven-month-old report. We see that the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission in Parliament has been dealt with only by the Commission, which the National Assembly has, but at the same time, we find that, for the time that we are considering the report, instead of helping to create a general climate to fight corruption, we have acted in such a way that the fight against corruption is as small as possible. And today, dear colleagues, statements by coalition members on how they want an independent commission are about how they support the fight against corruption are twofold. They're kind of cute because your concrete behavior over the last two years has been different. You were in favour of getting the commission set up to shut down. You've been criticizing her work all along. Many times, except for the last few months, we've connected everything with the chairman of this commission. Talking about strengthening the police and the prosecutions and justice. And expecting and saying that he can't or he can't or he has to. It is also very duplicity for the Commission to do so in order to prevent corruption. Today, however, we note that the most confidence in the public remains in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and almost at least in the Government to work in this area. Today we find that the problem of corruption in Slovenia is no less. I'm not gonna say it's bigger. But that there is and that we need organised action to prevent, but at the same time, I hope today we will adopt the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which is, for example, an important step forward. But remember, we've been talking about this for months. Remember what proposal the Government has come up with and that the last moment has come to realize to the Government that it is not actually able to incorporate into the law on ratification of this Convention a solution that may be enforced on 1 January 2009 at its request. What she's proposing now. In short, I think all these circumstances need to be taken into account when we talk about the Commission's report. When it comes to the role of institutions in the fight against corruption, we have an overview prepared by the Commission of how these corruptions have helped fight corruption in Slovenia. I'm not saying it's the only objective painting. However, it is based on a sample of 907 respondents and puts the media at the highest level, and soon thereafter the anti-corruption Commission. And to the lowest place in the law firm and soon behind this government. Therefore, to speak on the part of individual colleagues, that the Commission's assessments to combat corruption, that the lack of cooperation in the fight against corruption with them has been unbiased, is double-faced again. Of course, there was no cooperation. To talk about the unobjective assessment that people on the committee were not motivated to work, if it was only about when the commission, as an independent and independent body, would be abolished, is funny. And don't tell me that whoever you're talking about, that in three months or six months, you're gonna have to stop him is motivated specifically by his work. What happened to everyone, we know. The law adopted, a constitutional dispute declared unconstitutional on certain grounds, new proposals and proposals such as they are today, with 1.1.2009 end the independent and independent anti-corruption commission and preserve all corruption related solely to officials, and the receipt of gifts and their wages may still be unable to carry out their work. But it's not all the activity that's needed organized. I think we need to think about this and organise ourselves to act properly. Because I will mention two areas which are also mentioned here in the report as the most possible for corruption. This is on the one hand the functioning of the public authorities, and the administration, in particular the municipalities. If we link this to the assessment that entrepreneurs have about their dealing with corruption, then we will see that what is said is true for many then it is very difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to get a job without having a good relationship with the one who will give the job. And very, very much work is done today through the administration or municipalities, state administrations and municipalities, or through state-owned enterprises in which the state and the municipalities have their share of ownership. And if a link is needed everywhere to get the deal, then of course Slovenia is at a dangerous point in terms not only of corruption, but also of business freedom. And another is the health problem that we have organized so that many still feel that they will not be able to reach health services in time if they do not help themselves. And for each other it takes preventive action and joint action. Therefore, it seems to me that we should think about this and really ensure that the conditions for such preventive action are ensured. Whether this commission is called one way or another, let its President be Mr Drago Kos or anyone else, but we need an independent and independent body. However, the government and the ruling coalition have collapsed and prevented it for the past few years. I must therefore say that I will be happy to support the last proposed decision, which is also duplicity by the coalition. The National Assembly calls on all state authorities and local communities to put more effort into informing people that corruption and its prevention are, in the first place, an individual and its decisions. In the first part of the call. We call on what we've been demolishing for three years. In the second part, ladies and gentlemen, it is not primarily an individual, but an organised action of society, that an individual should not be in a position to be forced by the existence or creation of his interests to use such corrupt practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I think that today's debate, in fact, only the report allows today's debate to make more public about corruption. We all know that this phenomenon exists. The report also highlights some aspects more. However, I think that this thing is often very limited to others and that we are quite Pilateic in this regard. If I look at the National Assembly as a legislative body, we must be aware that we certainly have a lot of opportunities to eradicate this phenomenon in a way that actually legalises the most harm, where it is in fact the most difficult to prove corruption. Legal corruption or legal corruption is, in my opinion, the biggest problem in all societies. Not just ours. In view of the practice already in the former country in which we lived, when the legislation was so loosely written that it was interpreted in one way or another, I need to see that this practice has not yet fully improved. There is always the greatest harm to citizens and citizens when, in fact, corruption cannot be proved, and we all know that it is happening. In Slovenia, we know that there are quite a few companies that, of course, cannot be talked about publicly again or are difficult to prosecute because things are in some way legalised. So absorbed in the state budget that they simply cannot be removed from the budget without surgery. I will not mention concrete projects and specific areas. I would therefore be thinking as a Member in this direction that it is necessary, within the framework of the National Assembly, to try to listen to those initiatives of Members or groups of Members, regardless of where they come from, who are trying to make this legislation more transparent and feasible. I'll give you two examples myself. One example is that when we tried to introduce into the Constitutional Court Act the possibility of a complaint to the Constitutional Court or a request to the Constitutional Court concerning local acts, it is said by acts adopted by local communities by a third of the Councilors. We know that the law has in fact made the appeal possibility worse and thus in some way increases the possibility of corruption. I am sure that corruption at the local level has been strongly strengthened in recent mandates, in the last and half terms, thanks to the actions of some state authorities. I will give an example of the very rapid adoption of spatial acts in the previous mandate of the previous government, when 80 spatial acts were adopted overnight, with many of them not respecting the procedure prescribed by the law. But apparently the government can afford it. If there's no prosecutor, there's no judge. However, we know that the spatial issue is actually the basis for a lot of corruption that takes place in Slovenia as far as it takes place. And that really bothers me, because where we can prevent it, we don't do it enough here in the National Assembly. And another case, which, not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of some external institutions, specifically the Council of Europe, which has been working on a report years ago on the state of local and regional self-government in Slovenia, where it has been pointed out that the compatibility of the mayor and Member's function introduces the possibility of corruption. If not otherwise, it puts certain local authorities in an unequal position. I think we should put an end to this. We can only do this in the National Assembly. That is why I think that too many words about corruption and how others deal with it, and we ourselves do not do what we can, is not the best place to do it. I think we can get some ash today, too, since it's already the Ashtray. Above all, I think it is necessary to adopt, as I have said in the introduction, legislation that will prevent systemic corruption, which is also mentioned in the report, which, of course, did not begin in this mandate. I think there has been a systemic change in this mandate. However, I am also convinced that it is not a real debate whether there should be such a committee or not. No commission can in itself prevent corruption. Above all, it is important that all entities from the government, from the judicial branch of power, to the prosecution, to the legislative branch of government work on this. For the healthy development of society, as I started, if we don't have transparent procedures, then we're in bad shape. I'd like to give the Scandinavian countries an example. I think we can all agree that there is at least statistical corruption in Scandinavian countries. This is also because the procedures are extremely transparent. And that's actually how it's built. At the same time, when an unconscionable atmosphere and an unconscionable environment is being built, in fact, a higher standard of living is being built in society as a whole. I would conclude by saying that it seems really good to me that such a report allows for a debate in the National Assembly, like the legislative branches of government. However, I would also, of course, call on all colleagues and colleagues to consider legislation that gives an important role, including taking into account some ethical principles, some dimensions of a person who helps a person to act unscrupulously to support such proposals in this Parliament. Because I am sure that no law can be stronger than the law of some moral and ethical individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, President Kos, colleagues and colleagues. It was, it is, and unfortunately it will be in the future. I don't think I said anything new. That's got to sit down. And we want this corruption in Slovenia to be as small as possible, definitely. That is why we also have a Commission to prevent corruption that is supposed to do these things. After reading the 2006 report, unfortunately, even after my assessment it is never too late, it is correct, it is apparent. It's clear enough what the commission's been doing, what it's pointing out. And this report is also equipped with a lot of information, which is for us Members and for the public and for this debate today, in my opinion, more than positive, useful and good. The President's calls from this post and, of course, the reports are well-meaning. We want that and we want that. However, we all know that only the commission of this problem, which is corruption in Slovenia, will certainly not be able to do so if all the other institutions which are therefore in debt do not carry out their mission. The police, the judiciary, the prosecution, and so on. At this time, I think what can be seen is that the wealth situation of officials, both local and national, has gone a step further. This response is better than it was. Thus, officials were also aware of their work that during the year of the siege they had to give their assets and their completed forms. I think that's a step forward. We hear that local authorities or officials are slightly less responsive. They respond worse to these things than the state. But here, too, is a better thing. The incompatibilities of the function, of which there was much to be said, much written, a lot of different opinions. An official like the mayor or the principal of the school and so on. Unfortunately, there were many different opinions here than in the country itself. In the end, I think that, even in my opinion, it has been the result that many principals have either given up one or the other function and that this matter has nevertheless come to an end, that this matter is incompatible with the function of mayor and director. This I think has also happened that they have also resigned as principals, most of these mayors. As far as reporting corruption is concerned. It is also encouraging that 50% of the already known applicants and I think it is a success that 50% of those who write this are signed by their name and surname. It would probably be better if there were even more, and I hope that there will be more in the future who will sign up to this address with their surname and name. These are the positive steps we need to take. Also around the list of gifts and so on. I think things are on the right track here, too. The fact is that such a government, such a serious state must fight corruption. This is the concern of every government, every coalition, every legal state. This is definitely, and we must not, in any way, have any different opinions as to how this mandate and previous mandates began. Actually, it's more or less the same thing. There are no essential differences between before and now. In some ways, we all advocate in principle, support that this matter is being pursued, that it is prevented from shrinking and so on. And this country and the National Assembly have done something. There was also a lot of talk about public procurement. From here, huge public funds are being channelled, public funds in one way or another. We also revised the law on public procurement. In this spirit, how would we define it more precisely how to allow for less corruption in the field of public procurement, both locally and nationally, as well as in large-scale institutions? Something was done here in terms of how this thing could be improved. And here I think we've been so responsible and we've fixed this law. I hope that it is being implemented in a newer way, in accordance with the new law, things are better, they are going in the right direction. I agree with those who say there's not enough experts in this place. Definitely. I think that, here and in general, there are few experts in society who could be involved in the detection of corruption. I think that's a very difficult topic. It requires an extremely complex knowledge that someone can undertake such or otherwise detection at a time when the masters of this work are also on the other side. Any thought of any termination, I don't think I've heard that expression, that we should end this commission. If anything doesn't work out, then you have to make arrangements to make things right. And a commission like that would be a step back. It is also a step towards what governments are committed to, however, that countries are committed to combating corruption, prevention and reduction. And here when someone doesn't like it, I think it's a misleading and inappropriate act. I think that the public, which has been monitoring our work of the Commission to prevent corruption in these years, has a positive opinion on this matter, that it is necessary, that it exists and that this Commission must be professional, quality, professional, independent, non-plotted. This is what we all want, all of us, and to follow for one more, for the other a little less. I think the existing causes of corruption are different. Unfortunately, it's a slow response. It's a long way to go to the final goal and to the final success. There were few final goals achieved when a person was responsible for his actions. That's the problem. This road is too long and too slow. The penalties are too low and the procedures are repeatedly outdated to the final objective of the person concerned who has committed such an act. I'm sorry, we've got a spoilsport of modesty, kid. That's bad, and the readings probably hold. It is good, however, that we have active media that do much of this alone through their mission and, I will say, are a very effective instrument, as they point out to such and other irregularities and thus alert those responsible for such things. And perhaps even more quickly they approach their work, detection and prevention of such and other non-monetary transactions, which are happening and often discovered by the media in this Slovenian space. That's why they're giving thanks. Not only to citizens who report, but also to the media who have an important mission here to discover this. Any such warning given to citizens about such and different things, the media and the Commission doing this work itself, this report is exemplary and well prepared. This is for all those who, according to their official duties, must carry out their mission further. The police and the D.A. have more than enough work here. I hope that you will also successfully or more successfully save it in the future. No matter what power the government will be, no matter what coalition will be. Finally about this local thing. We have already talked about this in this House. It is good that we have also mentioned this correction to the officials of the municipal councillor, who was previously the same and in the same line as the Prime Minister, the President of the State, the Member of Parliament, the Mayor, that, however, these municipal councillors who carry out this mission at the local level cannot be "restricted" in their business activities for the whole of Slovenia, in their entrepreneurial work, that a councilman from the municipality of Sevnica probably does not have a special role in the work in Maribor or in Kranj. That's all fixed up. This absurdity went out that we did not now throw all the good and successful saints out of the world because they were entrepreneurs and because they could not participate in such and other calls. I think that's a step forward. Although it took a long time from that first and final goal. I think that's good in that sense. The report and conclusions that I think are good and positive will be supported. Together we are aware that we need the Commission to be as successful as possible against the prevention and detection of corruption in Slovenia, which, as I said in the introduction, has been, and will be, regrettably in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are discussing, I think, very important issues. It's a shame we didn't talk about this at last night's meeting when we talked about how police work in preventing corruption. Mr Kos said in an interview yesterday, I think, two important matters concerning the National Assembly as well. The first is that it is true that public procurement can be a potential breeding ground for corruption. Whether or not they are depends on what preventive action is. Let me remind you, the House here, that in this National Assembly, in opposition to the opposition, we have reduced legal certainty in the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, thereby increasing the possibility of corruption. There is still no legal protection for a type of public procurement of a confidential nature. And that's why we have brokers, and that's why we have operating tables dropping oil. Secondly, what Mr Kos said and what comes out of the Commission's report is that in 2007 we have as many applications for the anti-corruption commission as it has been in almost three years. Therefore, this mandate is getting worse or at least increasing the number of applications for fighting against corruption in the Commission. What does that tell us? Does this tell us that in this mandate, however, this team, what it was talking about, talked about three K's at the end of the last term, is actually implementing? And for the last part of my debate, let us be concrete. Mr. Minister of Finance has joined us, and I welcome him very much. It's a good thing he joined us in this debate. I regret that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior is no longer with us. I want to talk about one very specific case of potential corruption. It is called the sale of almost 30% of the share of the total voyage d.o.o. State portorage to some potential buyers. The fact is that the Court of Auditors has found that, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the Government, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, has transferred value free of charge to the Court of Justice in the amount of more than EUR 23 million. That's what the Court of Auditors found out. And then what happened next is written in a document that I will hand over to the Secretary of State if he joins us. Contrary to the procedures set out in the Public Finance Act, the Court simply did not sell the case in a transparent manner. In this case, I want the police to act in accordance with the Slovenian legal order and, of course, to find out why Slovenia, which has repaired the General Navigation d.o.o. Portorož for almost EUR 100 million of various bonds and aid, of course, to Bank Koper, why did she actually sell this matter in such a way that at the end the buyer simply sold two old ships to the same company and thus got the entire purchase paid back. Mr. Secretary of State is an ex-Military, then, of course, a Master of Human Rights. Somehow that's what his function is called. So I believe that, of course, they will take this documentation seriously and that we may also be able to hear before the end of this term whether or not corruption is detected and suspected when selling the share of the General Navigation d.o.o. Portorož discovered, of course. I hope, however, that the police will sometimes intervene in some strange contracts that were concluded when Mercator and other Slovenian companies were sold. Thank you very much. I'm handing over the file to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! If you want to talk about principle, I recommend, of course, both my colleagues and everyone else to read in the Slovenian week, 4.2., very fresh news on the old eight, a letter from a reader from Maribor who is signed by name and surname and states, I will say indeed eccentric cases of corruption and clientism. I am happy today, I am really glad that Mr Squeakl has also made a few words to the General Sailing. I'm being sued for this case because I've been alerting you to corruption, and I'm in court. The Member of the National Assembly is in court for pointing out the involvement of the judiciary in this matter. In fact, the criminal association that operates in this room, which is why he also referred to alleged violators, has filed a criminal complaint. Now, of course, the opposite was under the carpet in a way that allowed for a hundred percent transparency of illegal transactions. Except for the Kosovo Commission, no one has acted to this day. The State Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors, is informed in essence by the police, the law enforcement authority, is informed by the Minister, who has promised to sell it to the best bidder. Listen, they didn't even allow auctioneers to look into the business documents. In doing so, the auctioneers had to sign a declaration that they were familiar with the business situation, financial situation and others in the company. This was later sold at auction, and auctioneers had to report the upper limit of the auction to where they would auction. I don't get a contract today, even though the Court should give it to me. She gave me an authority to access public information, and I don't get it. But we sold state property. Where are we, Banana Republic, or is Slovenia? Your Honor! There is corruption in Slovenia. And that's cancer wound. We need Robin Hood. Why Robin Hood? Because small numbers of citizens and citizens are allowed to get rich at the expense of poverty! Poverty gets bigger every day. But the rich are getting richer and richer. It's customerism of the greatest kind! And where have we done nothing about it? At an electrical intervention in clientism and corruption. And here, our police are very cold. Nothing's done. It is a sophisticated method in essence and trafficking, corruption, bribery and everything, and it is not traceable nor will it. And if we want to, we can also talk about pedophilia, which happens on the Internet. There's a lot of reports of big pigs. Big shit, ladies and gentlemen! And the police probably have piles of this somewhere under the drawer closed like old Udbov archives. And I ask myself, is it possible that the police are involved in customerism and corruption if they don't act? Personally as a Member, I have informed the law enforcement authorities in detail with half a cubic of material which has barely been removed from the National Assembly on matters related to the General Navigation. Maximum damage to social property or state property in Primorska. Nothing happened, nothing! The state has rehabilitated this company with state money. We passed a special law in this National Assembly. However, since, of course, employees and seafarers were not paid, in the 1990s, the government approved the establishment of a company of the so-called Pomorskie Company, whose director became a former unionist. And look what corruption is. This trade unionist sold essentially to a maritime company established solely to protect the interests of small shareholders. This is the workers who didn't get paid. He sold this company to Döhle, who today, as we have already heard, bought for fifty million General Sailing. And of course immediately the same day raised on all websites its profitability in the company when it became the majority owner. A hundred percent increase in income. And by the way, he sold two old ships, either by accident or by accident or on purpose, more expensive than two new ones. Of course, he put the purchases back in his pocket. Your Honor, the General Navigation Agreement has been signed and signed in Mr Bayuk's office. That's where the notebook came in. It was a tightly closed door. Is that kleintalism?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon. Mr. Squeakle, you weren't appointed. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. So a lot of things have been said by colleagues and colleagues now. There are legitimate, I would say, concerns and suspicions about increasing the level of corruption. I must say, the report is correct. We have really advocated that Kosovo Commission get a little more teeth throughout the Group of Members. On the other hand, we can only find that the entire mandate has passed because the ruling coalition has tried to end this commission. And this continues to be done by the proposed law, when the term of office would end prematurely, which will come to the National Assembly. There would also be different solutions, but apparently the government wants to simply abolish the Commission and the President for some of the past objections between individual actors on the government side and the Commission. So we don't think that's the right way. The Commission should be given slightly greater executive powers or propose a third correct solution. As I have already mentioned, to give the Commission a little more teeth, we really want to give the Group a little more teeth to these conclusions as well. Therefore, we have also proposed additions to or adoption of new conclusions, 2.a, 2.b, 3. and 4. Because, as I said, I would give a little bit more teeth mainly to the conclusions relating to this report. Above all with warnings and sent to the government to do a little more in this area. Both at the normative level and in the pursuit of corruption itself. Regrettably, I must note that there is a high probability that the way will go according to the usual practice, I will say, after the established tracks and that we will be dealing mainly with how to abolish the commission by the end of our term of office, not to supplement it and to upgrade it. As far as General Sailing is concerned, I must say, I find this matter very strange as well. In particular, because the assets invested by the State in the rehabilitation of this company have been sold, and this was the national or property of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and even after a certain operation, despite the fact that the public information officer insists that key documents should be made available to the public because they were public funds, this does not happen. Hence, serious suspicions arise as to what is in particular here at the back. Because I am convinced that important economic operators in Slovenia, which are also important for the economy of the Republic of Slovenia, are also interested that this General Navigation would remain in Slovenian ownership as some strategic element of our economy. I express the modest hope that our proposals for conclusions will be supported, although I am not quite sure. And I'm afraid that, as I said before, things are gonna go back to normal, not pick up some new currents that would have some better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, you have responded to the replica of the performance of Mr. Friend. Do you think he misunderstood you? If he misunderstood you, then go ahead! You have a replica and what he misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you very much for allowing me, of course, to explain the reasons why I have volunteered for the performance of Mr Friend. My friend Friend, of course, somehow understood my surrender to Mr. Zinrajh as a possible disagreement with his actions. But I would like to tell Mr Friend that, of course, I fully agree with his efforts. More than that, he's not the only one being sued. Look, there are quite a few MPs in this National Assembly who are suing us when we point out anti-corruption actions. And this is what I wanted to say, of course, is the situation in Slovenia, because the members of the National Assembly have been suing because they point to anti-corruption actions, something we should be discussing here. Of course, I hope that at least the police, when investigating these actions, and also criminal charges have already been taken into account, will take due account of this. Otherwise, of course, I would like to tell Mr Friend that we are on the common side of the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr Squeakl, Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure states: "Only if your debate was misunderstood." Because she wasn't misunderstood. This is again an abuse of the rules of procedure. Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u38	So, the general conclusion so far was corruption. I think that all of us, together, here in the National Assembly, must be aware that we can continue to do something to prevent corruption. I think that I can reiterate here the opinion of my colleague Kokalj that legislation is the basis on which a matter can be prevented. On the other hand, it is the awareness that people will be able to report corruption that they detect or perceive in their environment. Today, however, I would like to ask the President of the Commission, Mr Kos, if he can explain a little bit more at the time he will have, why he estimates that the public authorities are working poorly to prevent corruption, say whether the police are not accepting your applications or not. Secondly, I would like to know if, given that the number of applications to the Commission has increased significantly, what percentage of these applications have already been completed and how many of them have actually been found to be corrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Kos, you can join us whenever you want to. Mr. Drofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Somehow I decided to try to say some of my thinking about corruption in our society, purely by my personal perception or personal viewpoint. Development itself is a relatively long political career, especially at the local level, I admit that I have not met corruption directly, so that I can prove that corruption exists. Of course, there are certain minor experiments, mainly because I was in such a position that there were other little things that sometimes even appeared. Not on my side to corrupt, but to try someone else. But this is about those little things. I am of the opinion that in our society, nevertheless, there is no real will to address the problem of corruption, not in this mandate, but for at least a decade and a half when corruption is present, especially in the media, when much is said about it. Now whether it is or not, that's another problem. However, since proven and processed, both in the past and in this mandate, there were very few. I would somehow try to divide corruption into two parts, namely, one part of this corruption at the level of a small person, perhaps in the areas of health, public administration, education, social and some other areas, or particularly where monopolies occur by the State, by operators or by certain discretionary rights enjoyed by certain individuals in certain services. That's one level of corruption. However, the second level of corruption is in large businesses, such as in the field of public procurement of countries, local communities, in the field of public institutions, in the sale of public property, in the area of acquisitions. Once again, this problem occurs for a decade and a half, immediately after the state has somehow normalised since 1990. And I think that this discussion, if I say, about the Commission, one or the other, I think it's not that important, but it's an important general climate, a general treatment of the problem of corruption. I would even say that a few minor cases have been processed in the past. They brought a doctor here and there in front of the judges, and maybe a smaller thing. Except for one little bit of corruption evidence by a state secretary, which is still said to have not been completed, there have actually been no other major cases. In my opinion, the whole system of the rule of law, from parliamentary control to such or otherwise, should work, the police, the prosecution and, of course, the functioning of the judicial system, until the end of the day, if something proves true to anyone, it must also be paid. I think that in the area of corruption, there is one opinion of a lack of values, that this is an act that has been rejected, that 10 dkg of coffee is actually corruption if you give it to someone, that maybe half an hour before the doctor or something. In fact, I would say that since I've mentioned many times that if you work fairly in the family, if you do what is right, you are equal to incompetence. And this is the sad fact that in this society that aggression means something, it means business success - I would say that whatever means you achieve this business success, it actually means something more than doing it honestly, but actually you're a little less successful. I think that the problem of corruption is the whole system, both parliamentary control, both the police, both the prosecution and the justice system, and perhaps the media as well, especially by forcing and promoting true, fair values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to point out that the Commission's report is very correct and, of course, very fair. On the one hand, too, because this report also shows public opinion research, which tells us a lot about how public opinion is about corruption in our society. This study shows that awareness among people of the existence of corruption and the social risk of corruption has increased and that other actors in this society should also seek material for their further thinking and work, both the Government and, of course, the National Assembly as a legislative body, and in this sense, I must agree with the previous speaker, Mr Kokal, who has pointed out some things that are unacceptable in terms of the legislative aspect and should be corrected by this National Assembly. But what has this current power and, of course, the result of this National Assembly - been engaged in this mandate? Primarily all the time, by how Kosovo would or would abolish the commission, forgive me, I say the commission as well as the others - or if it has not already been done, at least how to take away all its powers and levers. It is probably not a coincidence that today some colleagues who speak about the role of the so-called Kosovo Commission are always saying that it is not effective enough that it has not done enough to actually be a toothless animal and so on. Why, though, for God's sake do they not read the authority of this commission, the authority of this commission? And it is clear that this commission does not have investigative powers. It is therefore not clear that this Commission has done nothing in this respect if it does not have such powers. However, these powers are vested in other authorities, which apparently do not do enough in this area. I am interested in why, in fact, this current authority has been working all the time, either to abolish Kosovo's commission, or to reduce its powers, or what it is so fiercely striving to do. Or is it because some of the more visible representatives of this current authority have already significantly improved their material situation in this mandate and we would like to see very much that this commission would no longer be at the end of this mandate? Thus, we would not be indebted to this committee and would not be able to report on this improved material situation to this committee, nor would we, of course, have to mention the resources from which they have recovered so much materially. So this would be quite something that we could conclude is behind these constant efforts to bring Kosovo's commission to an end. How else can we explain all the possible games that this Government has played at a time when some of us have called on it to come to the National Assembly with a proposal to ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption? We know what the problem was. The problem was that this Government did not want to commit itself to the 6th Article of this United Nations Convention, which speaks of an independent, independent body that would not be subordinated to any other authority, let alone an executive state. There is, of course, something else that should also be discussed, and that may also indicate an effort to reach out for a public survey. This is the question of how much political corruption has gotten rich in us. Because it certainly is. And it is political corruption, colleagues and colleagues, that is the true hummus on which every other corruption grows. If our people asked today what they thought about this political corruption; whether it had become rich or not, whether it poses a serious threat to this society or not, I am sure they would respond positively in a high percentage. Only then should this National Assembly ask itself: What should I do in the future in the field of systemic legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. For the Commission on the prevention of corruption set up in the previous mandate, we are pleased to say that it is a toothless tiger. The law is flawed, and we have also warned about it, and it does not give the Commission sufficient opportunity to function effectively. Whether the Commission has proved to be so through its actions in recent years, they differ. The fact is that corruption is one of the biggest problems of modern society and ours is not immune before that. This is also reflected in public surveys, which were also financed by this Commission in 2006. I must admit, however, that the opposition has been much more heated in the past term with regard to the prevention of corruption, while the ruling coalition has cooled down in this mandate. The authorities just do their thing. The uncertainty of the Commission's existence is not in favour of a serious work against corruption. Will the transfer of orders to the Court of Auditors, the Council of Justice and other institutions bring better and more effective solutions? I believe that the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption will be a step towards a more serious approach to this problem, which needs to be addressed in a timely manner so that it does not grow. Each company is also a corrupting commodity and there is never enough effort to prevent anomalies that occur and will continue in the future. I believe that the report of the Commission is correct and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u46	Respectable. What would a person say about the report and the proposed conclusions proposed by the Commission? The report is professionally, properly made, clearly reflecting what the Commission was doing, what it had done, what it had come to, and even more so reflects a desire to enable it to work, or to save it in some way. And it appears so through the report, and so much more through the conclusions, that there is always some inertia, some perseverance: if you persistently pour fire, the sooner it is extinguished, or at least just a crane of soil. And here it has to be said that the government, the government coalition in three years has managed to present the situation in this area in every way, if it is not necessary to do so in a different way, the attempts have been evident - changing laws and so on. And now that I'm looking at these conclusions, at least it's hard for me to accept them. I don't think the National Assembly should take any decision. Getting acquainted with the report is more or less clear. When published once in the Rapporteur or on websites or anywhere, anyone can get to know him. That's not a conclusion. We should simply not take any decision, because the way in which we deal with this after a year and so much for the period for which the report was written probably makes no sense, because the measures that we are supposed to take for further work on this basis are ineffective. Even in these few months, nothing will happen anyway, and this extinguishing of this grill, this commission, and so on, will continue. Whether it will come to an end on its own and the Government will do something else at the time just before the end of its term of office towards further abolition, it is unlikely that it will be necessary, because if the Commission succeeds, it is only because of the perseverance of the President, the Members and all those working there, and some warnings from the public that it is not going to do so, and ultimately the Constitutional Court. How should I actually understand the third decision of this Commission, which is proposed to us by "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the competent state authorities to give particular attention to prevention..." and so on. Yes, of course they must in their regular activities - and the secretary of state anyway writes the SMS even in the morning and he is not interested in this and is just a matter of urgency here and the government doesn't care at all about these problems, the coalitions don't care at all, because they have achieved their own. Now, "mild thirst" - many other conclusions that would still be necessary and necessary and only rational do not support. They support the proposal for a decision - and even more so, that the transfer of orders should be made to prosecutors, to the police and I do not know where and so on. In this country, in this social order, in this system, however, it is a basic assumption that each body must carry out its tasks in accordance with the Constitution, laws and so on. And all these powers to prosecute corruption - because it is not, it is probably pointless to say that the ruling coalition wants to show that it is not from September, October 2004, that it was only before, but did not carry out any process to prove that it was, now it is simply not, and therefore there is no need for the authorities to deal with it. However, with some regret, I also note in the following decision: 'The National Assembly should propose to the Government as soon as possible to submit a proposal for a law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the fight against Corruption', and so on. Today we have, that's also irony, today we have this item on the agenda. What's actually going on? The Commission says that in the comparative part it is a matter of concern that we are in the last place, namely, the country, not the Members individually, but all together, the country, headed by the authorities that should be dealing with it, with the Commission, which warns and so on - that it is an effort to deal with these issues on the tail. On the other hand, it wants to show that everything is wrong - where, that is, the commission, and the previous power, which has been for three years - even more, will now be three and a half years now, which is nowhere else. This is what I have been stressing all along, we listened to half of the performances of both the Minister and the Coalition Members yesterday, that life began in November 2004, that nothing had been done before. But if anything had been done, it was all wrong. And of course, now you have an opportunity to fix something, to do something, to take on the basis of the report serious conclusions that were, by the way, very well presented, but the results were 3 to 3. It even says by name who he was: Dimitrij Kovacič, Miro Petek and Drago Koren. And today you're singing lessons here. However, you do not want to take a benign decision on the committee, on the committee, on how to expect some things from the Government, let's say that the government, let's say, let's read a proposal for a decision, "Let's let the Government inform the National Assembly as soon as possible", so "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government to send him information on the events", and so on. No! No! 3 to 3. You don't even want to know the information in this area! Or the next decision and so on. I assume you all know that you have more information than a coalition. He can hold on to that. But when it comes to corruption, when it comes to phenomena that are contrary to laws that are immoral, that are unethical, that are at odds with some democratic order in a country, then, of course, a vote, a political vote that cannot be made clear to the National Assembly, it is unacceptable to me. But I know it, I know it. Even when it came to spending money in the defence area, when I wanted to propose, let's get to know what's going on in this area, the members of the committee simply voted that they did not want to know that it was not necessary. Then it's six months from now, to make a little mistake, we've got as much as 30 million euros, plus two million more euros too, we're going to reduce it, we're going to redistribute it and so on. This is not the task of the National Assembly, this is not the role of supervisors. We are, in spite of everything at the final stage, supervisors over the work of the government. And in the public interest for the need for transparent action in the country, the only authority that actually communicates with the public here in a way that provides it with correct information to answer their questions. Because ultimately, when it comes to public money in particular, we just have to let them have an insight into some things. That is why I really do not understand - I will not go through all the proposals of the conclusions, but if I look at how this meeting of this Commission took place and at the end of which conclusions were adopted, then it would be really better if we did not take any decisions. Because if that's-- maybe the fourth conclusion, that's really amazing. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on all state authorities and local community bodies to put more effort into raising people's awareness that corruption and its prevention are primarily an individual and its decisions." What are we going to do now, small schools? What we will organise to be what we know, what citizens and citizens still know, research is done, international comparisons, warning us with some experiences and so on. And now we will order the state authorities to pay special attention to this! They must do what they have to do each day in their field! That's all. It's not like we're blinding ourselves here and it's like "mild heat" is all this, we're taking some conclusions that, I don't know, I really don't know what they're meant for. To be able to say, then, will the ruling coalition say that the National Assembly has adopted the report, everything is fine and calls on citizens and citizens to raise awareness and report on corruption? Is it simply that those who would be in a situation where they could be subject to corruption or as recipients or as those who would be in a situation where they could bribe someone not to do so? Well, there won't be any results. But, as we say, we do something that we have to do, the coalition is not interested in, the government does not want to play an active role in these things, led by the authorities we discussed yesterday, the Ministry of the Interior, the police, etc., etc. Yesterday, it was indisputably stated here that these were not at all problems to be dealt with and so forth. This way we will do our job, but with a bitter taste that we have somehow lost our chance again to point out that there is something serious to be done in this area if we all recognize that this is the problem. I say that the problem is not only in Slovenia, but it is connected, dispersed in the international space in one way or another and in each country individually, depending on how successful the authorities are there, but also how successful these things are, and how much they allow similar commissions like ours to carry out their work independently.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I've got a little time, and I'll hurry. The negotiators have made it clear to us that we are in favour of corruption. They were talking about small, big corruption, political corruption. I think this would be a comparison of Dr. Trstenjak, who once said that honesty is like innocence. Either you are or you're not, you can't be a little bit or much honest. You're honest, or you're not. We have found that corruption, including communications, is on us to prevent corruption, we are creating legislation that is clear and that will not be doubtful. As far as my position is concerned with the Commission, whether it is necessary or not, my view is that it must be professional, responsible and have sufficient powers must be effective. I also had dealings with her or the malicious people who reported me, the commission reacted quickly, and her sentence was clear: "The messenger is working according to the law." And it allowed me to do that. Of course, the media that took advantage of the crowds at the time never apologized for the various "comedy" and malicious words they wrote and spoke about me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Sok. Time's up, that's right. Mr. Gulic, something else is available if you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u50	Okay, well, since it's very little available, I'm going to narrow things down to a lyrical level. It won't be epic. I am listening to this debate, and I still note in particular that, here in Parliament, where we also have a commission to oversee the Kosovo Commission, it is not entirely clear to us, but not to some, what is the function of this Commission at all. It is true that this is the commission that is supposed to prevent corruption. Not to prevent, it is said, it is not a final act, but it is a constant effort, which has certainly changed since 2006, for which we have this message, to date. If not, we have entered the European Community, where the situation is significantly different. And it is certain that the Commission, as it has previously cooperated with other countries, must also remain because the situation is changing as well. It's not good to keep putting something on a new set, even such a "Nebelwerfer" [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As will be said to this next scattered committee - the fog-thrower. However, I very much agree with what Mr Kokalj has said. Here, too, we must look at the adoption of such legislation [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Given the time constraints, I will take this opportunity to serve you with the corruption anecdotes of spring 2007, which goes like this. In one of the companies in which the state has more than 50% of its share, last year, an investment was made in one of the countries of the former SFRJ and a commission contract for several million euros was to accidentally be added to the government chambers. As far as I can see in public, obviously nothing has happened because the board and the board of directors are still sitting in this society. So nothing's been done. And in the end for the fourth conclusion. The fourth conclusion is a typical conclusion of the former party guidelines given to people by self-governance and, as you have repeatedly expressed yourself harshly about these times. Now, on the committee, you have yourself proposed such a decision or a direction as to what people should do.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! What conclusions represent a party's direction, my forerunner will probably know best. As for today's debate, however, I would consider that the Commission's report for 2006 has been used for considerable deliberation, and I think that there have also been quite a number of two-faced words spoken, although one of the discussers has seen the duality of the government coalition. But I think it's the other way around. It is always said that the government and the government coalition are trying to abolish the so-called Kosovo Commission in order to try to abolish the independent and independent body they should need in order to act independently and independently and such an organ does not need to be abolished. To try to revoke or revoke the powers of the Commission and so on. None of this is true! This Commission already does not have the appropriate powers under the applicable law to give power to fight effectively to prevent corruption or effectively prevent corruption. And it's not about shutting down the commission and then there's nothing more. The law, which we will soon get before Parliament, foresees an improvement in the situation, a better, effective work in this area. It's not about the commission shutting down, it's about trying to get added value. If we are talking about who, under the new regime, is to assume certain powers, existing ones, and also new ones, then we need to know that this is about more than 90% of the existing powers being assumed by the Court of Auditors. Does anyone feel that the Court of Auditors is not qualified enough to do so? Do you think that the current President and members of the Commission are more qualified than the President and the Judges of the Court of Auditors? Do you think that the current President and current members are more independent and independent than this Court of Auditors? I don't know. I have previously raised some concerns which call me doubtful that the existing Commission has always acted professionally enough and independently enough and autonomously. I have given examples of what is in principle - what is the principled opinion, and we all know. The main opinions are opinions on some general issues and, with these principled opinions, we should, if we already consider that the principle opinions are part of the educational system which this Commission has the powers to have, talk about how some of the issues that occur more than once in society can be addressed. It is not, however, that the Commission, by these principle opinions, deals with specific events and specific people and accounts them and identifies them as perpetrators of such and such acts, such and such corruptions, that their actions mean that they represent and contain signs of corruption. However, we do know who alone in this country can speak of an act of corruption as defined in the criminal code, by the way. And I think that if we compare what we have now and what we want to have in the future, I think that really doesn't stand any comparison. The Court of Auditors will certainly not interfere outside the policy area and will not be involved, will not step on thin wood and will deal with some political assessments and will address what seems politically valuable to it. And it will only deal with those things where it might be necessary to deal politically with those who are not supposed to be politically "this right". I think that the work of the Court of Auditors so far has shown, however, that, despite some of the Court's decisions, it is critical to judge, but it seems to me that this is an institution that generates substantial confidence, both in the expertise and in the field of confidence in independence and autonomy. Someone mentioned that he needed Robin Hood's Slovenia. I don't think so. We need a system that will be effective and that will effectively prevent and sanction those who exceed the law both at legislative and enforcement levels and also at the level of the judiciary. If some who are today calling for Robin Hood's assistance are in previous mandates when they were in power, but they were close to Superhik, it is unnecessary, in my view, to seek some mystical figures that will save Slovenia, but Slovenia itself must ensure consistent implementation, application of the law on implementation and compliance and, of course, effective sanction if such violations occur. So it seems to me that only the report, as I have already said in the introduction to the presentation of the position, is not disputed in this sense that it would not describe what was done in 2006 by the Commission, so there is no reason, of course, to object to such a report. However, it is also right to discuss what the Commission has done, why it has done so, why it has not done anything else, and also how it would be better in the future. Our goal is to always improve the situation and, if possible, why not. Why is it that it is here to talk and deceive the public that something is being removed, which is supposed to mean that from now on even what we have will not be. No, no, no. For the Commission is a completely useful issue in a wide range of areas, but if the situation and weaknesses that have arisen and are likely to be identified by all, if we can improve this situation by different arrangements, why oppose it. I don't see why. In this way, I will, of course, support the proposed conclusions, which were also supported by the National Assembly Commission, myself. I think that the conclusions are good that some amendments have indeed been rejected on the committee itself, but they are also because the result was 3:3, but it must be said that the other party has also rejected some of the proposals proposed by the other three members of the Commission. So that any evidence in this direction that there has been a vote is not justified, for if there has been a vote, then there has been a vote on both sides. The result was 3:3. So one group of three members tried to vote on something, another group of three tried to vote on something else. But the conclusions, which have been, as everything in the minutes has been written down, have been voted out, but I think they are good at this point and I think they should also be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Kos on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be as precise as I can be. I must say, any regulation that re-orders an area is a bad rule. This is also the case with the Anti-Corruption Act, which is strange. Because we have already had a regulation in Slovenia since 1992, which has been called the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity which regulated approximately the same areas as the Anti-Corruption Act. But it turned out that when we started implementing this law of ours, we were actually plowing the ice that had not even been touched until then; that is, for 12 years someone had not done his job or was doing it in such a way that no problem was detected. After we started implementing our marriage, we began to learn about the problems that followed. We have also found that some of the solutions in our regulation are such that they are certainly not good. For example, such as this one, that non-professional officials must also report on the property situation, such as the fact that the functions of the mayor and the principal of the primary school are incompatible, but we are a legal state and the commission had to comply with this regulation. What was the basic principle of our work? We have tried to achieve that in this country, however, we will be able to work together to prevent corruption. It was very good from the start. We had several meetings that helped organise the Ministry of Public Administration with all representatives of all sectors in the government. When the famous law came into play, which then terminated us, it was as if someone had pointed out all the communication water to the government. Since then, nothing has been done more, at least as regards preventing corruption through the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy. And it is not true that there is no legal basis for preventing corruption. One of the tasks which is explicitly discussed in our law is that the Commission is responsible for coordinating measures in the field of the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy. And when we talk about the fact that it's only the commission that's deliberately involved in implementing the strategy, that's exactly what we're thinking. We're the only ones who do this on purpose. In addition to other bodies, which are sometimes fortunate in their regular work to comply with any recommendation, which measure under the national anti-corruption strategy, there is no other action other than the Commission. And from the start, it was a very good show. And this is where our criticism comes from, and now I am answering Mr Koren's question, our criticism of the authorities that are not going that far, I will deal with the police later, but not so much in the direction that these authorities are acting as some major persecutors of corruption, but more in the direction that these authorities do not do themselves enough to make corruption not enough. If we are talking about corruption as a matter of priority for each individual, the same is true for the authorities. Corruption is in the first place the problem of each organ individually. And these authorities can do the most in preventing corruption within themselves. Today, too, it has been heard by Members that a lot more could be done by the National Assembly. We had the tool we were trying to do this with, these were so-called integrity plans. This is a very soft tool to raise ethics in all national authorities, which was even mandatory for some time, and then because of the changes in the regulations the matter was suddenly no longer mandatory and brought the matter to an end only by the authorities who wanted it. I must say, there have been quite a few organs that have brought this matter to an end. Among other things, even in 2007, this is not yet in the report, and the Office of the President of the Government, the Office of the President of the State, and some ministries. Others slowly withdrew from this, at the local level it was almost a rule that they did not want to deal with integrity plans anymore. But integrity plans are such a good thing that they could, I will say, be a very recognizable export article, not only by the commission, but also by Slovenia, because we are all asked about them. We even had a special presentation for the Vice-President of the European Commission, who wanted to see what integrity plans are and how they work. As far as the police are concerned, not only because of the reports the police receive from us, but also because of the whole way the police approach corruption, we claim that the police are a bottleneck. In 2006 we resigned 91 cases to the police, and in last year we could have stepped down 171. But this represented only 20% of all the perceptions the police have in the area of corruption. This is based on statements made by police representatives to the OECD representatives, which means for 2006 that the police detected 450 suspicions of corruption crimes this year. The number of criminal charges was 44. One year ago, just 18 years ago, another year ago. We, when criticizing the police, do not criticize the police just this moment and now. We are talking about the general attitude of the police towards this problem. And if you look at the police's programming and budgetary acts, you will see that there is no corruption in them at all, which means that this is really no priority for their work, and we are not satisfied with their work. Although, as I say, the Anti-Corruption Act is bad, I must say that it is still better than all the suggestions you have so far made on your bench. This applies both to the law that was then partially repealed by the Constitutional Court and to the law that is yet to come on your bench, the Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Functions. Why? This law will set up the following system: monitoring the property situation will deal with the Court of Auditors - and only this. That's not 90% of our work, that's a lot less. Monitoring, prevention of conflicts of interest, however, will be carried out by the State Election Commission, the provincial, if they are, municipal electoral commissions, the National Assembly, the State Prosecutor's Council, the Council of Justice and all the bodies that appoint their officials. These are almost all the organs in the Republic of Slovenia! Plus, by definition, officials are also heads of public institutions, public agencies and so on. We only have more than 1100 schools in Slovenia. This means that more than 1,100 authorities will monitor the conflict of interests of their officials. You will agree with me that this regime certainly does not ensure consistency, does not ensure the same legal standards and does not ensure equal treatment of the officials who will receive these procedures. Even assuming that all these organs will not work as professionally, independently and objectively as possible. We strongly reject the evidence that we have been working in the case of principled opinions politically, that we have been going through political discussions. If we looked at who our principled opinions were and our resignations in the first part of our operation were, in 2005, we would see that 90% referred to the work of the previous coalition. Which is clear. Because the most violations occur in those who have power. It doesn't matter what political field they come from. Of course, then things became normal for the current situation when we started dealing with the current ruling coalition. And if we work in the next few years, things will turn around. We will also deal with the next ruling coalition, whatever it may be. It's about the principled opinions themselves. At present, one of these opinions is in judgment and it will be very easy to say whether we have gone too far with these principled opinions or not. As for the case of donations in a well-known Slovenian municipality, I must say that we are monitoring matters. That we know very well what's going on. The only problem we have is that no one wants to officially present their views and their knowledge of the problems to the Commission. But we just can't make it up on our own. And one more thing. We always adopt principled opinions on the basis of requirements for principled opinions. We don't make up our own problems, and we don't try to solve them ourselves. We would also like to carry out more analyses in this area, but we simply have no finances. However, I must say that I am pleased with the debates of some Members. For example, for every word that Mr Kokalj has said, I am signing myself under every word. Above all, I am pleased with the part where it finds that, in preventing corruption, it should not be important where the one who wants to fight it comes from. That is why we note that this moment is the biggest problem of this country. Why? We've lost three and a half years. From October 2004 until now, arguing about who will fight corruption in this country. We fought and we didn't. Something small for me, something small for the police, but there was no real system approach. I think - I hope I am wrong, but it seems to me - that the fight against corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is in itself irrelevant, that it is only used as an appropriate tool for political conflicts. And once again at the end, a great desire that I make all the time. I want everyone to understand, however, that corruption itself is an apolitical phenomenon in this country; that it appears everywhere and that we can all fight against it together. As soon as someone starts to privatize it, we will come into a situation where each new government will attack the previous government and do the same. No! No! If we don't get some minimum standards, it won't go any further. And just for the end, with regard to the law on ratification of the convention that you're about to adopt today. There's no reason not to accept it. Since Slovenia has fulfilled all the conditions required by this Convention since 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the report. We are moving on to the debate on the conclusions and amendments tabled to the decisions to be taken on the basis of the review of the amendments of 5 February 2008. With regard to the proposals for decisions proposed by the National Assembly by the Commission of the National Assembly under the anti-corruption law, I note that the National Assembly with the Commission's 2006 Anti-Corruption Report has already been informed and therefore there is no need to discuss this Decision. I also note that the National Assembly will today, after the final vote, consider the proposal for a law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and therefore the proposed second decision proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft law on the ratification of the Convention should be submitted to the National Assembly as soon as possible is irrelevant. That is why we are moving on to a decision 2.a, which I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Zares Group for a new decision 2.a. At this point, I'm warning you, those of you in red numbers don't have to apply. Well, I'm opening an application to discuss the amendment for a new 2.a decision. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u58	We will, of course, support the amendment. Of course, in some way I would like the Government to come forward, now it has the opportunity, and the Government also explains its position.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you. The government doesn't have a chance. That is why I am concluding the debate on the 2nd decision and putting to the debate the amendment of the Really Group of Members for a new 2b decision. Mr. Squeakle. Anyone else? No, no, no. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. 2.b Decision. You don't have to read it now, you just say the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll tell you what I think is right. On the so-called order of debaters, Wednesday, 6.2., the debate on amendments, recorded the Government's time together. So, does the government have any time? And if she doesn't have it, why didn't she propose it?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you. I conclude the debate on the 2b decision and put the new 3a decision into the debate of the Parliamentary Group's amendment. What kind of interest? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and put the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to a fourth decision to be discussed. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments and conclusions will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda or at the latest at 6 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Period of the day - This is a second defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety at Courts. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Zinrajh, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members. The current Ski Safety Act has been applicable since 1.12.2003, which regulates the basic rules for the use of skis, and in practice many shortcomings have been demonstrated so far, especially in the field of providing safety on skis, namely the visa of control over compliance on ski slopes and the implementation of certain legal provisions of this, now existing law. The main objectives of the proposed law are, in particular, to ensure a higher level of safety on skis, to enable the safe use of skis for all users, to introduce appropriate and effective control over the implementation of the provisions of this law, and the conduct of entities which need to ensure safety and order on ski slopes and to clearly and definitively delimit the competence of inspection services. The key innovations that the bill brings are the following. Ski supervisors will no longer be a criminal authority, but will still have the opportunity to submit a proposal for the introduction of a infringement procedure and remain the most effective measure, i.e. the withdrawal of a ski ticket. Certain conditions for obtaining powers for supervisors are being reduced, and better competence of supervisors is also envisaged as they will have to attend professional training regularly for four years. The bill also gives the possibility to carry out the duties of supervisors to EU citizens. The tasks of the Internal Affairs Inspectorate and the transport sector are clearly shared. The supervision of the provision of safety and order in the ski area and the work of supervisors shall be under the responsibility of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs. However, the supervision relating to the operation of skis and the work of operators falls within the competence of the traffic inspectorate. As they gain profits in the performance of sports activities, operators are, of course, obliged to ensure the safety and proper use of skis. The proposal prescribes a higher number of supervisors according to the number of skiers. The proposal for a ski law with a capacity of up to 300 skiers provides for one controller, with a capacity of up to 1000 skiers two and for each additional 1,500 skiers one additional supervisor. The number of controllers may also be reduced according to the current operation and capacity of the cableway equipment and the operator must comply with minimum standards for controllers. This exception is actually introduced in cases where skis are not fully operational for objective reasons, lack of snow. At the same time, the proposal for a law adapts the conditions for obtaining a permit to operate smaller ski operators, which, according to our assessment, will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the free economic initiative. I suggest you adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you, President, for your word. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! At its 40th meeting, on 11.1.2008, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ski Safety Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. First, the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior gave an additional explanation to the draft law, stating that the proposal regulates and specifies the powers of inspection services which oversee the implementation of the provisions of the law. The main aim is to regulate the status of ski controllers and to ensure their independence and expertise in the performance of the tasks for which they are authorised. The proposal also brings some of the amendments and additions that are necessary to ensure a higher level of safety on skis, taking into account the standards in force in most EU countries. He further outlined the important innovations brought by the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ski Safety Act. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that their written comments had been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and by the proposal for an amendment to the Committee. In the debate, the Committee members highlighted the following. They welcomed the fact that the draft law was in line with ski operators. They have highlighted the characteristics of our ski slopes, which are shorter and narrower than those abroad, making them less secure and bring a higher level of safety to the bill's proposal in this segment. With regard to the adopted regulation on light pollution, they wondered whether this would have any consequences for night skiing. In the amendment to Article 4, they were explained that on small skis, someone in one person would be able to perform both the tasks of the supervisor and the tasks of the paramedic if they met the conditions for rescue. Otherwise, both supervisors and lifeguards will have to be provided. In view of the increasing number of accidents on the ski slopes, including guilt, some felt that penalties should be radically increased by example abroad. It was explained that the police retain all their powers in this area and that safety and order on the ski slopes are provided by supervisors, traffic inspectors and police. Amendments to articles 1, 11, 14, 15, 21, 22 and 29 of the coalition groups adopted were tabled in the draft law. As its committee, it adopted the amendment to Article 4. All the amendments adopted are included in the proposal for a law on today's treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For the introduction to this presentation, let me say that the proposed amendments and additions to this Act will be supported by the Group of Members. At least two reasons for that. One is that the next objectives will be to ensure that the measures envisaged are possible for their realization, and the other is that when the positions that were very often quite close to each other in the drafting process of this law. Objectives such as: to ensure greater safety, to reduce the number and weight of injuries, as well as to optimise costs for those who deal with tourism and manage skis and towings, are all acceptable to us and I think they need to be supported. Empirical data on how this has gone so far on the ski slopes suggests that a change of law is necessary. In particular because the supervisory functions did not work, probably due to a conflict of interest, because the supervisors were employed by the operators because there was virtually no withdrawal, unless in a few years we have any mentions worth, licences and tickets, because there were no reports of any offences which should be ingrained. As statistics show that there is an increase in the level of risk on some, if not all, skis, it is appropriate to make a change in this area. There is no doubt that there are greater burdens. Skiing techniques and devices themselves are different. It would be difficult to say, however, that the skiing culture or users of these devices went hand in hand with it and has improved significantly. On the other hand, when this proposal for admission was being prepared, it was about how to draw closer to the views of those who had security in mind, which cannot be disputed, and those who spoke and thought about the need to ensure economic viability and optimise costs by not overreacting and thus possibly rejecting the development of this economic sector. It seems that a real compromise has been found, the right measure, which is why, as we know, this proposal is also supported by the law, including by cable operators, managers and everyone else. We have announced support, and this support will also be given to this law on our part, and in the meantime we wonder whether this two-year delay is really true, whether it is necessary to adjust operators to a new one so much time. On the other hand, if we can say so, they are already going to have defined larger and smaller ski areas, which, of course, on smaller skis, allows us to reduce the costs of monitoring the change at both the level of education and the fact that it now takes only skill and no longer formal qualifications, so that, given the conditions that are not always the same, the number of skiers can be adjusted and that the rule that will be prepared will also try to follow all the interests as regards the provision of medical assistance on ski slopes. All of this can contribute, but it is certainly most important that future attention should also be paid to the development of culture, some kind of training on ski slopes, because the devices themselves, the additional protection of obstacles in the influential area, only the additional examination of the lines before and after use will probably not be enough. Nevertheless, a key factor will remain the skier with his culture, which he will practice on the ski slopes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ski Safety Act as an incentive for order. The proposal of the law itself further defines everything that, as my predecessor said, skiers, ski lovers should know on their own. Of course, we have some questions or doubts about why we should separate on the ski slopes, I don't know, I am now speaking to runners on skis, brothels - as we know, racing is a very popular sport and classical skiing. I don't think a definition of this is necessary. The ski resort is a ski resort and is available to everyone. In the Slovenian National Party, we are already a little disturbed by what we established yesterday in that long debate, why only and only sanctioning with material means, why it no longer raises. But also in the field of education, this law changes some facts, so that ski supervisors are no longer a criminal body. We do not understand why a new condition has been added for the performance of the duties of supervisor, namely the reduced condition of the education received. But this one is compensated as long as you read the law through the fact that it is mandatory to train these overseers every four years. However, such a law is, it is right that the law governs the order and it is right for the Ministry or Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs to share certain tasks and competences within the framework of security control or to grant certain powers over safety and order in ski resorts. After all, ours and your children are the ones who, thank God, will ski, relax, be healthy. We want security, of course. Either I miss it or I haven't read it carefully enough, there are other rules like security equipment and so on. But let the law be supplemented. It is essential that this Law on Complementation of the Ski Safety Act provides greater security, gives conditions for greater safety and also gives opportunities for people, not only from Slovenia, but also from Europe, to be in Slovenian ski resorts, which in my personal opinion are not slightly smaller, narrower and more dangerous than European. We have such conditions, which are popular and on which we hope to meet. We welcome the amendment bill and we will welcome any proposal for a law that will provide mainly for security. On the other hand, to open up opportunities and do not want to limit skis to classical skiers, other skis for surfers and third skis for skiers. In any event, they are conditioned on their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable present. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, we will support the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Ski Safety Act. It's one of those laws I think I need. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, despite the fact that this year's ski season is already ending, since in the light of the weather, an interesting and certainly necessary law is being drawn up. It is the wish of the Group of Unaffiliated Members, referred to as Lipa, that this law, in practice, should also be implemented, if not in this season, at least in the following. Exactly as defined by this law. All of us who are enthusiastic skiers and skiers use, as much as we can or have been allowed to weather lately, can see or notice that skiing has become very comparable to driving on the road. Every year we have something new, we have some new animation in the snow, either the bordards, or the floaters, or the big foot-eroes, as they are called, and someone else. But the law, I'll say, does not specify individual segments, but it speaks mainly of safety on ski slopes. To that end, only a warning may be possible. Perhaps we should also think about those who regulate Slovenian skis in order to pay more attention at one point to these new forms of snow recreation as well. Maybe that would be interesting. We know that those "classic skiers" in girdles are disrupting other forms of recreation because these other forms require some other terrain, some other form of regulation or irregularity of the tracks, depending on what form we are talking about. As far as the rules on skiing are concerned, I will say in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Lipa, perhaps in terms of the Government, the restrictions or that level of security, or the level of punishment for those who commit offences, could be even greater, in our opinion. We know there's been more and more serious injuries on the ski slopes lately. It's like comparing what I've already said in the introduction to traffic safety. The interest of cable drivers and skiers who regulate and somehow live from them is to prevent this story, which is very current in Slovenia, hand to heart, and let us be honest about the abuse of tickets. In some areas abroad, this is very well arranged. Wiremakers, police officers, and ski managers, or skiers, have the authority to simply withdraw the map if reasonable suspicion is found that the map has been misused. This example, or for this purpose, is also used on these ski slopes, where the map is a man, you have to give personal information, name and surname, the card is a woman and the map is a child. And if they find someone, one of the skiers who will wear it, I've already seen it myself, or seen it with my own eyes, someone who carried a child's card, just came by a cop who was on the ski park, looked at the map, was a kid for an adult, took the scissors and cut off that map, and the man stayed in the valley. Therefore, I would like to say that any addition towards or even better, I will say, to ensure safety and prevention of ski abuses is certainly welcome and will be welcomed by us in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Lipa, with the pleasure of supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek, on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u72	A respected council, a respected representative of the government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the Ski Safety Act, as it makes sense to upgrade the existing law, which has been amended and supplemented at the end of 2005. The amendments and additions to the law underline the powers of supervisors and police officers on ski slopes, with a view to ensuring greater safety during the operation of skis and beyond their operating time. Such sharper legal supplements suggested negative conditions on skis mainly for safety reasons. The ever-increasing number of skiers on the ski slopes, especially the new skiing technique that allows high speed skiers to develop in turns, with the heavy handling of skis by less skilled skiers, results in more frequent accidents, collisions, severe falls and resulting injuries with fatalities. This is also confirmed by the analysis of accidents in the past three ski seasons, which shows that, despite the amended and amended law to ensure greater safety, the total number of accidents is increasing each year, taking into account that the number of skiers on ski slopes is also growing annually, which has been moving more than two million per season. This analysis shows that 90% of all accidents occur within a regulated ski resort, that the cause of 15% accidents between skiers and almost 5% of the collisions are with the ski facility. It is therefore essential that ski operators ensure such conditions and safety measures that the use of skis is safe for each skier, as well as for others who use protected and marked areas which are separate from the ski slopes. This objective is also followed by the proposed amendment to the law, which builds on the current law by the legal imposition of safeguards, tightening the conditions for the operation of ski resorts and ensuring responsible control over the implementation of the provisions of the law, which has not been taken into account in practice so far. The analysis also shows that during the three 2003-2006 seasons, supervisors have not issued any payment orders nor taken any ski tickets; therefore, the proposed amendment of the law sets out more clearly the powers of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs and the Transport Inspectorate, imposes additional measures on the ski operator to ensure greater safety on skis, reduces the conditions for obtaining the supervisor's authority, but introduces mandatory training of supervisors for at least every four years, prescribes a larger number of supervisors in relation to the number of skiers who are no longer a skier, but have the power to ensure safety and respect for the order in ski resorts, also with the possibility of introducing an offence procedure, distinguishes the powers of supervisors and police in the event of an accident on skis, imposes on the ski operator to provide rescue services with an appropriate number of rescuers, a plan for the implementation of emergency medical assistance, distinguishes the authority and police officers in the event of an accident and charges against the driver, and the driver, and to ensure that they are ready to carry out the penalties. With the proposed amendments to the Ski Safety Act, we agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and we certainly support them with the desire and conviction that the statutory measures of engagement will also be implemented operationally and consistently in the interests of greater safety on the ski slopes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavliha of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dearly esteemed presence! We will support the amendment of the law in the parliamentary group, and we strongly believe that it should be decided at the beginning of the season. But it's never too late. This novel is another proof of how the law penetrates into all human activity, including entertainment, into hobbies. Of course, it cannot replace what is said by ethical and moral standards, which are usually written in codes of conduct. If I'm allowed to be in this place, at this point, a little humorous, let me remind you of the famous native saying: "He who does not jump or ski is not Slovenian." I am also a passionate skier myself, but in doing so I seriously warn all those who ski, that we are skiing cautiously and that we must not fail to take into account the tiny natural and legal expression written in Article 24 of the Law, namely that we must also be aware of the principle of mutual respect and understanding on ski slopes. Statistics show that we are really getting closer to the situation as we are on the roads. Let's see, in the 2003/2004 ski season, there were about a million and a half visitors on our ski slopes. This figure was already close to two million in the 2005/2006 season. During the previous season, 1,294 skiers were injured on the ski slopes, and in the last season, the number increased to 1608, and in the last three years three skiers lost their lives, which is a disaster. So, what can we do? Those responsible could be divided into four categories. First category, probably the most important, we're skiers ourselves. Guilt, speeding, overestimation of ability, poor or too good equipment do not belong on ski slopes. By the way, I personally advocate to prescribe, as for bicycle riding, the mandatory use of helmets for all, not just for children up to the age of 14. The second category is operators. Managers must take care of the faulty operation of the devices, as well as the condition on the ski slopes. Why our ski slopes have become ever more icy compared with some other people, we can often run into rocks, humpbacks, and other phenomena that do not belong on ski slopes. Let me say that the case law here is good, because in certain cases, managers in the compensation area are treated with objective responsibility, which means more stringent than criminal responsibility, so that they can avoid their responsibility only in case of force majeure or the contribution of the act of the injured person. The third category is supervisors. Here we have concerns that these supervisors are at work with the administrators, which means that they control themselves as a matter of fact. Our proposal is to consider making overseers independent. Because unfortunately it is not in the interests of the administrators to take tickets or otherwise violate their guests, who are likely to stop coming to this ski resort. And the last category is the inspectors. We have two inspectors who are responsible for the skis, the transport and the internal affairs inspectorates. I don't think it's good that there's a coordination problem here and that it would be better if one inspectorate, an inspectorate of the Ministry of Transport or the Transport Inspectorate, had carried out inspection in the area of cableways. If I may conclude, let me remind you that it is a Slovenian cultural holiday on Friday, let us try to transfer those who will go to the snowy slopes, a little culture, a little cultural tolerance to this area of human activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u76	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished colleagues, guests. In the parliamentary group of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Ski Safety Act without any specific reservations. Maybe we'd like to see that there's more to this marriage. But on this occasion, I would say that this is one of those laws that I think came into procedure after some normal procedure, for normal reasons. Thus, things in the world have changed and the bill-maker has also responded to these changes and has proposed them to the National Assembly, where we have, of course, also looked at them and adopted them. I also agree with those things that may seem less restrictive, such as taking into account safe skis, which I think is also good for promoting entrepreneurial freedom and entrepreneurship incentives. These small skis are not usually very dangerous and do not belong to adrenaline, but they are intended for children and it is good that such things are spread even in environments where skiing is not only about tourism, but it is simply about recreation. It bothers me that the technical equipment does not require helmets, but it would be good to ask about Soča, because the damage caused by the fall on the ice is certainly as severe as the traffic, and I see no reason why such a thing has not been installed. I think he's smart, too. After all, those who have the opportunity will do so quickly and others will have more time to do so. We support the bill in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting to the representatives of the ministries, Members of the National Assembly. We are at the peak of the ski season this year, although weather or snow conditions are not the most favourable, and in fact our skis work quite well. In Novi Slovenija we find it interesting that the number of skiers on the ski slopes, despite the high prices, we say overpriced prices, increases from year to year. Ski and cable operators work hard and increase the capacity of tractors and seats. That's good. But it is true that the number and scope of the tracks do not increase, but it creates greater crowds on the ski slopes themselves. As a result, safety and the likelihood of ski accidents are lower. The Ski Safety Act lays down the basic rules for the use of skis and for ensuring safety. As has already been said, in practice it has been shown that things are moving forward in this area and that there are also many shortcomings that do not provide as much security as they would like on the ski slopes. It is for this reason that the Law seeks to ensure a higher level of safety on ski slopes, to enable the safe use of all users and to introduce effective control over the implementation of the provisions of the law and to clearly and definitively delimit the powers of the inspection services and, finally, to the ski users, to indicate the responsibility and compliance of the rules which should apply on the ski resort itself. In New Slovenia, we support the proposal to add the permeability of the ski track as a standard to which the operator has to take care, to ensure greater safety of skiers and to provide a condition for the prevention of ski crowds. The permeability of the ski track is the highest possible number of skiers which, under prevailing conditions at the time interval, can ski a certain part of the ski track. Even more so in New Slovenia, we are happy that the proposal brings a different treatment of small skis, which so far had to meet the same conditions as the great ski resorts. The draft law sets out the conditions to be met by a small ski operator. The change enables the establishment of smaller ski resorts where the terrain allows and thus contributes to the development of rural tourism and promotes economic initiative. However, we are convinced that the introduction of smaller skis does not reduce the standard of safety in any way. The amendment of the law removes the inadequacy in the performance of the lifeguard and the tasks of the supervisor, often performed by the same person, which is not permissible, since the number of supervisors and paramedics is precisely determined, given the number of skiers, except when it comes to small ski resorts where it makes sense to meet all legal conditions for one person to perform the duties of supervisor and rescuer. The tasks of the Inspectorate covering internal affairs and the Transport Inspectorate are also clearly shared. In Nova Slovenije we agree that the safety and order of the ski resort must be provided by ski operators with supervisors. In order to effectively eliminate the danger posed by wild or threatening skiers, the controller may immediately withdraw the ticket. This is also one of the most important levers for ensuring order in skiers who violate behavioural rules and safe skiing orders. The consistent implementation of such a measure will undoubtedly lead to a greater order on skis and safety on ski slopes. We also agree with all those who claim that there are uniformed police on large skis, especially on Saturdays and Sundays, when there are many people on ski slopes. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u80	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Representative of the Council of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Ski Safety Act. The main purpose of the proposal for amendments and additions is to regulate the status of ski controllers and to ensure their independence in a normative manner, as well as the expertise in the performance of the tasks for which they are authorised. The proposal also contains some amendments and additions necessary to ensure a higher level of safety on skis, taking into account the standards applicable in most European Union countries. The draft law regulates and specifies the powers of inspection services which supervise the implementation of the provisions of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are pleased that the law is aligned with ski operators. It should be borne in mind that our ski resorts are less secure than larger skis due to the specificity of the terrain, the narrow ski slopes. So there's a greater incidence of accidents. In addition to the police, they will be responsible for the supervision and security of ski controllers and traffic inspectors. We agree that taking a ski ticket is the most effective measure to remove a dangerous skier. In order to ensure effective control, it is primarily necessary to provide sufficient trained personnel. The Slovenian People's Party supports the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the amended bill today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 14th item of the agenda or at the latest at 6 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE GOVERNMENTAL WORLD BY A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the State Council for further explanation of the bill. Mr Darko Fras, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u82	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, thank you for this opportunity. The fundamental reason for the proposal of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council is the regulation of the status of President of the Council of State. Let me remind you that in 2005, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council, which added in Article 43 a new second paragraph, which stipulated that the office of President and Vice-President of the Council was honorable and unprofessional. At its 6th extraordinary session, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a suspension veto on the Act on Supplements to the Law on the State Council, which was then re-adopted by the National Assembly at its 11th extraordinary session. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia therefore adopted, at its 39th regular meeting in 2005, a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council. The Council of State did not agree with the prohibition of the professional exercise of the office of President of the Council of State and then the act of termination of the President's working relationship. Such a situation prevented the President from being permanently available to carry out his duties imposed by the Constitution on the Council of State or on the President of that body. It is only under the circumstances that the former President was able to perform this function in order to change the regular relationship, to meet the conditions for retirement, to thank others for not having to say the more difficult consequences for the functioning of the Council of State and, consequently, I hope to say, for the functioning of the state regime as provided for by the Constitution. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in a substantive part, followed the request of the Council of State and, by a decision, found that these provisions were contrary to the Constitution and imposed on the National Assembly to remove that non-compliance within six months of the publication of this Decision. I would not particularly explain the reasons and the very tasks that the President of the Council of State has. In view of the nature and scope of the tasks, we are assessing, and the Constitutional Court has also followed, that it is therefore essential to regulate the President's status in order to carry out these tasks on a regular basis. Finally, comparatively legal, irrespective of the different powers and scope of tasks of other homes in Europe, is practically the only exception. In all other homes in Europe, the status of the president of the second home is regulated professionally. Allow me only briefly to touch on the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law and also on these circumstances, why we have proposed this solution in this way. Before this decision of the Constitutional Court, the adoption of a law on the system of public sector wages did not contain the function of the President of the State Council, and the proposal for a law annexed then attempted to include the President of the State Council in the pay grade of the legislative authority, namely, A2 in the 64th pay grade. This part of the proposal, which also affects the area of the law on the public sector's system of wages, stemmed mainly from the fear that the bill would enter into force, whereas this law would not determine its pay grade or enter into force later as an amendment to the law on the State Council. On the Internal Policy Committee, this part was deleted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced amendments to the law on the public sector's wage system and in some way followed this proposal fully, and we see no problem in this. But I would just like to point out or point out the following matter. It should be pointed out that it was on the home body, the right committee, the third paragraph of Article 1 and, in fact, we see here a small problem, or the inadequacy of the current law's proposal, if we follow this amendment. Similarly, the Law-Legal Service in the National Assembly warns. The rights applicable to Members may not be applied automatically to members of the Council of State or to their President. This is about the fact that the current dictatorship gives the President of the State Council only the right to pay, but does not say anything about the other rights of the working relationship that go to him. And here we assess that this proposal for a law is still somewhat misplaced. It is quite clear that the nature of the tasks and the scope of the tasks performed by the Members of the National Assembly and the President of the State Council are not the same and therefore it is not possible to even those rights, but we estimate that they would be more clearly and definitively defined by the President of the State Council, that the other rights to which the President of the Council is entitled in this case. Since the President will be included in the functions of the legislative authority, in our view it is reasonable for him to be given the same rights as those of the officials in this branch of government, that is to say under the law on Members, in our opinion, and probably also referred to by the Legislative and Legal Service, it would be appropriate that he should be given at least those substantive and other conditions for work as rights and rights after the end of his term of office. Let me conclude with this supplementary explanation with two thoughts. In the State Council, we are aware that there are different views on the constitutional order and position of the State Council. However, I would like to point out that the Council of State is still a constitutional category at this point, and in my opinion, in fact, the debate on this does not belong to these changes and additions to the law, but to the debate on the law on the State Council and perhaps to the debate on the constitutional regulation itself. Therefore, allow me, honourable Members and Members, to suggest that you support this proposal of the law and thus comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court which imposes it in the first place, and in particular help to regulate the status of the President of the Council in such a way as to enable it to carry out its tasks in a qualitative and smooth manner, as set out in the Constitution and in the Law on the State Council. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother, and I therefore ask Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u84	At its 40th session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council, which was submitted by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided, at its meeting, that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. At the outset, a representative of the proposer, State Councillor Bogomir Vnučec, said, in the context of the supplementary explanation of the articles of the bill, that the draft law, which contained only four articles together, was the result of the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has decided that the decision in the amendment to the Law on the State Council that the President of the State Council is performing his duties in a non-professional manner does not, in accordance with the Constitution and the National Assembly, impose a six-month period for the elimination of that non-compliance. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the written opinion of this service, stating that the proposal for a law in the new third paragraph of Article 1 does not provide for a sufficiently clear and definitive definition, which of the rights which Members may have, however, may apply to the President of the Council of State, since both functions are already distinct from the Constitution and therefore the rights which apply to the Member cannot be automatically applied to the members of the Council or its President. With regard to the proposal for an amendment to Article 1, she said that the solution was not appropriate, since other rights were not regulated for the President of the Council of State, it was said in addition to the salary resulting from the professional management of the post. The representative of the Ministry of Public Administration said that he supported the amendment to Articles 1 and 2 and that he was already in the process of drafting a new law on the public sector wage system, which would include the presidency of the Council of State. The members of the Committee agreed in the debate that the draft law should be adopted as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court and that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service should be taken into account with regard to the proposal for an amendment to the Committee's amendment to Article 1. They also discussed the situation and status of the State Council in general and agreed that this constitutional issue would need to be discussed in depth on any other occasion. Amendments to Article 2 of the Coalition Group have been tabled to the bill, which has also been adopted. As its committee, however, the amendment to Article 1 was adopted. Finally, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 98 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee has adopted all decisions by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all members and members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Hello. Now we've seen why we don't need the State Council. The only thing he cares about is what the President of the State Council will pay, what ratings they will have, what privileges they will have, and what they do, we know how. Mainly, the opinions of the working bodies of the National Assembly are short-circuited, the upper part changes and then we get it on the table. The State Council itself is a blind intestinal of Slovenian Parliamentarianism and far from being a second home, even though there are strong tendencies in the State Council to make the State Council a different home, and in this way they also represent themselves as a second home in their travels around the world in the State Council. And yet we know that we have a one-house parliament in Slovenia. Something should be done here and these things fixed. According to the Slovenian National Party, it would be best to abolish the State Council. Instead of the State Council, which is spending money that does virtually nothing useful in the country, it could be calmly closed and added to the number of Members, which would make sense and more sense also because the work of the National Assembly would take place faster, easier and even lower burdens of Members. The fact is that the State Council wants to be compared with the National Assembly primarily by financial means, but not by work; by profit, by money, by what would be in the pocket. And yet this function is honorable and unprofessional both for the President and for the Vice-President of the Council of State. At least until now. It seems to some that honor is not enough if it is not supported by money, and that honor is the devil's little concern, but that they are only interested in profits, money, profits and how much it will fall into their pocket. And if we find such among the Members, I ask you kindly why we should "further" the State Council in the same way. I don't think that goes together. The State Council has no essential function. When the Constitutional Court decided that it was necessary to provide the President of the State Council with a paid position, I do not know how it was thought when it was known that the function was honorable or in the Constitutional Court that everything that is honorable was looked at through money. It appears that our Constitutional Court is also one such strange organization, one strange association that acts and decides to a large extent against the interests of the Slovenian state and they care little about how people live, only that some live better than others and that they are "further" from the front and the back. I think that the fact that the State Council is proposing such a law is fraught with common sense and perverse. It's perverse that we hear here a representative of the State Council, that it's a second home, and that he wants to be a second home, and I don't know what else. Practically none of the positive things since 1992 have been carried out by the State Council. They carried out matters when they were hit in the pocket, when their interests, personal interests or common interests were affected, and by no means did they really need to do anything, then they retreated into the background and acted as if it were none of their business. It wasn't really about them. I think that the law is meaningless and that even those constitutional requirements that we have to correct are pointless. After all, in Slovenia we have even a bunch of unconstitutional laws that we should have fixed a long time ago, and we haven't fixed them for years and it's been quiet. Here, when it comes to money, when it comes to making money, we should work fast and short-circuited. We will be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Your Honors! For the essential functions of the State Council, the veto should be stressed. Veto is a vital function. We have saved some financial resources in this country for various referendums, which are more or less attracted to hair because the State Council has vetoed. The Constitutional Court, and whoever thinks of him, no matter how he acts and how it is composed, has decided that paragraphs 1 and 3 of the amendment of the Law on the State Council, which transforms the presidency of the Council of State into honorary, in violation of the Constitution. To those who respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitution is the highest legal act and the Constitutional Court is the highest body at the moment and must be respected. As far as the work of the State Council is concerned, I think that from this composition of the National Assembly, from this government coalition forward, the State Council was working at an average level, compared from 1992 to today. A number of vetoes were given, which means that a number of laws by the government coalition were weak and obvious or an essential element that my predecessor could not explain what the essential element of the State Council was vetoed was used. And if I define myself to the laws, the most important ones - patients' rights, asbestos, private protection, religious freedom, the law on financing education and education. A variety of funds have been saved to citizens and citizens in this country. I also understand that the intentions of individuals from the government coalition on the need for the State Council to be abolished have now emerged. The Council of State is carrying out its task and is not always in favour of this government coalition and has also placed a super-average number of vetoes on individual government proposals. But don't blame this State Council. You blame yourself because the laws were poorly prepared. In keeping with the Constitutional Court's decision, I must say that we will not oppose the law in the Group of Unaffiliated Members known as Lipa. But it is true that there is still a lot of work to be done about the system and the arrangements of the State Council. To this end, interviews have also been held in individual parliamentary groups, and I think that everyone, that the Council of State, is sure and I agree with this, needs to be reorganised. Reorganise also in the way of some government representatives in the State Council, such as those who perform their functions in a non-professional manner. However, they are professionally acting either as a supervisor at a particular casino in Bled, where the President of the Administration is someone who has recently advised the largest parliamentary party in this National Assembly, and is supervised by someone who is also a visible member of this same party and who are very good friends among themselves, and I believe that they will never find any irregularities among themselves. If you don't know who I'm talking about, I'm not afraid to operate on behalf of Mr. Grandchild and Mr. Kitko when it comes to Casino Bled. In this case, we agree, or agree, with the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Lip that it is necessary to reorganise the Council of State. I may also say, I will say, competences and burden them with professional performance once the Government is able to draw up an adequate proposal for the regions, as well as to change this non-vocation for the profession and the same commitment as the Members. But it is unwarranted, in my opinion or in the conviction of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, to say that the Council of State did not perform an essential function. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He has carried out this mandate since 2004, and this is vetoed. [[...]] And all my predecessors, or representatives of the Slovenian National Party, when they spoke about it, were in serious error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. The proposed law constitutes a minimum amendment to the applicable law and is based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that the unprofessional exercise of the office of President of the State Council is not in accordance with the Constitution. The National Assembly is therefore obliged to amend the existing law in that part which does not comply with the Constitution and replace it with provisions which will be aligned with the Constitution. The proposed law therefore provides that the office of President of the Council of State shall be professional. However, its salaries will be set out in the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act and will be comparable to those of other public administration officials. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group agrees with the content of the proposed law and will therefore support the law. Whether we can all think of the functions and powers of the State Council or whether the State Council is another home or not, we know that it is not another home. What its powers are or are not appropriate, but we must all be aware that the Council of State is a constitutional category and whether or not certain changes are necessary. We also agree in the Group that certain changes are necessary. However, we must be aware that any change must also be reflected in the amendment of the Constitution, which means that at least two thirds of the Members in the National Assembly must be required to make such a change. And at this point, we have the Council of State with our powers, as set out in the Constitution and given that the Constitutional Court has stated what a provision that was not in breach of the Constitution should be corrected, is now being corrected in this law, and that is why the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group agrees and agrees with the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will vote in favour of a proposal for a law stipulating that the President of the Council of State shall act professionally and that the Vice-President shall be appointed informally and that the payment of the President of the Council of State shall be determined by the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. In this decision, it would be right to emphasise the following. First, we believe that the support of the law is necessary, as it follows a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is clear and unequivocal and that those who wish to respect the rule of law must support it for this reason. However, I would like to point out, secondly, that the law will not settle all matters of the salary of the President of the Council of State, as the representative of the Council of State has already said. Formally, our decisions in this regard are correct, but it is not enough, and it is probably right that the Government, which in some way merely proposes an arrangement in full, the coalition with it and the Council of State agree on how to proceed so that the issue is not formally settled in the Law on the State Council pays that, while leaving open how many rights and what other rights and talking about them for months and months, but not having the question settled. I think it would be right for the Government to make an effort, and this proposal is indeed prepared to receive Members and Members of Parliament as soon as possible. This question in this mandate would be definitively consistent with the Constitutional Court's decision to settle, I stress this stronger role and responsibility, because I do not have the hope that, given the different views and interests we have, and the fact that even the ruling coalition itself is not unified enough to form any consistent proposal, nor is the Council of State concerned, unfortunately, sufficiently, a proposal that would otherwise have occurred, but, in accordance with the two-thirds majority, regulated the position of the Council of State. For I believe that there are very simplistic claims that everything is bad in the State Council. I think whoever talks like that doesn't know the job or speak out of interests that don't come from constitutional-systemic grounds. At the same time, I believe that many things should be assessed, complemented, and that many times the functioning of the State Council is also linked to the attitude of the National Assembly towards the world. When he is hesitant, and this is what has happened and we have heard it today, his role and his specific decisions, and at times it also happens in the State Council to make a decision that is simplified and that will not be enough. Otherwise, the decisions of the State Council are often of benefit to the National Assembly, especially to the coalition for its benefit, and sometimes it can exploit them and, on the basis of recommendations or veto made by the State Council, it changes the decision, when it does not do so and when it is right, when it comes to a constitutional dispute and it is confirmed that it is wrong and when it comes to a referendum. But the Council of State is one filter, one test or decisions have been taken in the National Assembly with sufficient consideration. I would therefore suggest that we start to think about the situation and regulation of the State Council, if not in the Constitution, at least in the relations between the National Assembly and the Council of State, where there could be a lot of arrangements. This bill, which regulates the urgent content, is supported and we ask and remind that it should also be operationally regulated, is stated in the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages and Other Possible Rights. Until this is settled, it will be just a principle decision and the problems will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Mr. Joseph Scholch was written here, he's not here. Nobody said he was being replaced, so I moved on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. The question of the creation of the National Council has been given great attention since the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution. At seminars, public administration education, we were told that we have a single home system in Slovenia, that we have the State Council and therefore used the expression that we have a quasi-domain system. In Novi Slovenija they would say that the State Council is not a dick or a mouse. The State Council, in its current form, is a combination of representation of economic, social and social interests. However, he is given the highest priority by representatives of local interests. You could even say that the continuity of its composition, which does not mean personal, is drawn from the old congregation arrangement. It is precisely because of their special function that members of the Council of State are treated and rewarded differently than members of the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court decision of last October, which led to today's amendment of the law, is clear. The position of the President of the Council of State must be professional, as, I quote, it is essential for the effective work of the Council of State to ensure the permanent availability of its President so that the Council of State can respond to the activities of the National Assembly in a timely manner - the end of the quote. By a decision of the Constitutional Court in this place, it is not possible to politicise it and we must respect it. However, we will take this opportunity to expose some of the dilemmas that are opening up to us. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the time has come to reflect on the need for an institution of the State Council. Information on its functioning shows that the State Council has not played an important role in the Slovenian political system and has not helped to enhance the democratic and efficient governance of the country. Democracy and efficiency are guaranteed by the National Assembly itself, where directly elected representatives of the people are gathered. These representatives represent many different interests, and the Council of State represents only certain partial interests that gain disproportionately much power compared to those of those groups that are not represented in it. The participation of interested groups in the adoption of legislation should be ensured at the stage of the drafting of legislation within the ministries and in the discussion and decision-making of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The involvement of stakeholders is crucial in the law-making phase, and the Government and Parliament must finally accept and accept responsibility for the determination. The status of the State Council should be reorganized, redefined, because the situation and powers it has today are no longer appropriate. By the end of the term of office of the Council of State in this composition it will be necessary to make a decision in fact, to give different powers to the Council of State or to abolish them, because we believe that it does not currently give added value to Slovenia. It is interesting how the views of Members change rapidly. From 2005 until now, the unconnected Members have completely changed their position on the State Council. Perhaps because they are now sitting on the other side of this hall in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Council of State, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members. There have been many discussions on the need and sense of the State Council. The fact remains that the President of the Council of State, despite the specificities of the Council of State, is a person with a type of competence and tasks of great importance for the smooth functioning of that body of legislative authority. The mandate of the President of the Council of State is not only to represent the Council of State as such, but primarily to cooperate properly with the Assembly of State and, last but not least, to the important impact that the Council of State may have on the adoption of individual acts. The change ahead of us is the change that seems appropriate to us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in view of the status and tasks of the President of the Council. The nature of the work of the President of the Council of State, which includes a great deal of responsibility, dictates the need for the professional exercise of this function. Only then can the work of the President of the Council of State be sufficiently efficient and levelled with comparable parts. At the same time, it allows the President of the Council of State to be available to carry out important tasks. This also ensures the smooth conduct of the work of the State Council as a whole and the smooth functioning of the State Council with the national assembly and other bodies. It is clear that the professional function of the President of the State Council also coincides with the classification in the relevant payment grade with all the above. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party agree, in order to align the position of the President of the Council with the Constitutional Court's decision, we will vote in favour of the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much. At the end of these presentations, let me begin by finding that we are actually correcting our own mistakes, the mistakes of this National Assembly, which adopted the law as it was adopted. We correct them because when we were warned about our weaknesses in time, we did not respond properly. Now we have no choice whether to think more properly or not, but simply after the decision of the Constitutional Court we must do so. And if we turn the circle of events on this issue, then, of course, we find ourselves in that period from the early 1990s when it was already suggested that this would be regulated, as the two or three times that happened later, but there was never enough obedience in the National Assembly to properly regulate this status in the state world. In the DeSUS Group, of course, we will support what has been said to be imposed and what is now proposed by the amendment of the law, and we believe that the empirical experience of the State Council is such that this decision is confirmed. Whether it is that, at least according to our judgment, the State Council has quite a clear placement in our system, but it is to me, or the National Assembly for a long year, that it has refused to acknowledge and acted in this position in our system somehow non-shallant or even higher, or that it is the right to impose laws, to repeatedly stop the hasty and not the best decision and that it can ultimately allow decisions to be made to people at referendums. So, he has enough weight to know that it is not possible for this State Council to run like a non-professional society. We cannot compare the President of the Council of State with the non-professional president of folklore society somewhere in some local community. But it is true that, at least according to our judgment, working in the National Assembly and at least those directly more burdened in the State Council with the problem we are dealing with is comparable. Laws are just as difficult for us in the National Assembly as they are for those who check them in the State Council. Decisions that are then taken at re-sessions, at re-decisions, are equally important, and their consequences are equally difficult. The organisation of work in the State Council is also difficult, probably the scope of work. And if I say what is not most important, it is perhaps the most obvious fact that at all protocol meetings, where representatives of the Council of State come to, we do not have the same disrespect for the President as we do for other work very often in the State Council. Unnecessary, perhaps, sometimes tense relationships between the two bodies for prestigious reasons are simply superfluous. We therefore support this bill's proposal, note that all the expert opinions of the Legislative and Legal Services have not been taken into account on the committees, and note that there has also been a lack of an amendment that has so far been predicted on the working body and which has promised that today, as this amendment will be tabled, we will address those weaknesses that have remained. There's no amendment, so we can't make a decision about it. We're gonna have to do this job at some point in time. Otherwise, the DeSUS Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development: following a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Slavko Gabr. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Rudolph Mohet, for a further explanation of the draft decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u100	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! In an introduction to the meeting of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, Dr Slavko Gaber said that the law was introduced on the basis of a number of initiatives of public research institutions, which complemented the 2005 Act, which did not support the structure of the Management Board of the Public Research Institute. The majority of the Governing Board was taken over by the Government and the impact of operators and users was reduced. Thus, the institutes were actually administratively supported. The aim of the amendment of the law is to change the ratio of the number of members on the Management Committee of the Research and Public Infrastructure Institute by making a third of the representatives of the founders, a third of the employees and a third of the users of the public service of the institution on the Management Board. This change would eliminate harmful and politically motivated interference in the partnership-oriented relationship between the founder, the research sphere and users. There would also be a legal solution in line with modern trends in research in Europe, the role of researchers and users in decision-making on the work programme of public research institutions and the elimination of government and policy monopolies in decision-making. Representatives of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the Scientific Research Centre of SAZU, Koris, the Education Institute, the Institute for Nationality Issues and the Union for Education, Education, Science and Culture in Slovenia unanimously supported the provisions of the law while at the same time pointing out the growing and growing problems they face in their institutions due to the current composition of the boards. In addition, when the majority of members of the boards have a representative of the founder, the autonomy of public research institutions is being reduced, and they are also disturbed by the fact that the policy does not trust highly educated researchers who are carriers of Slovenian development to decide on the vision and development plans of research institutes. Representatives of government parties are including a government representative, that is, with Minister Mojco Kucler Dolinar, the State, as founder and majority financier of public institutions, should maintain a majority share in their administrative committees. Research programmes representing the public service and endorsed by the Management Board of the Public Institute must follow the public interests and national research policy priorities adopted by the research national programme for which the government is responsible. The fear of the law's proponents that the impact of policy on the boards is too great is, however, unjustifiable because they exist both in this law and in some other mechanisms that prevent it. On the other hand, the MPs and members of the opposition supported the bill's proposal from government parties mainly because the impact of a policy that can be applied through representatives of the founders in public institutions would be reduced and the autonomy of these institutions increased in decision-making. Among other things, it has been pointed out that the Government has recruited its representatives on certain boards of directors on the basis of clientele. It also happened that its representatives did not have the appropriate education they would need for this very professional work on many occasions. Fear that public funds would be wasted irresponsibly if the founder had no majority in the boards of directors, is also unjustifiable on the basis of experience prior to 2005, when the law stipulated that representatives of the founder, the performers, the users were represented on the boards of directors, each third. After a gruesome debate in which each of the positions and opposition remained on its shore, Mr Drago Koren proposed that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Research and Development Activities should not be considered. The members of the Committee endorsed the decision by eight votes in favour and six against, and the Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the draft law for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Dr. Slavko Gaber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u102	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The National Assembly is today faced with an opportunity to correct the error that was committed when the law, which has already allowed a three-partite equivalent composition of administrative committees, research institutes in Slovenia, was corrected. Then we decided to "de facto" and also "de jure" administratively support the formal public institutes in this country. At that time, we decided on something that was not particularly likely, but it did happen, namely to withdraw the possibility of partnering and partnering with public research institutes. At the time, the structure assumed that users had three seats on the board of directors, three seats on this board of researchers and researchers and three seats on the board of directors. At that time, the proponents of that law seemed, and the previous Parliament before us also adopted such an arrangement, meaningly and logically. They felt logical, especially because they were aware of how painful the process of coordination of interests was and how necessary it is gradually to build trust between the users of the services of an institute, government and researchers. This, this difficult-to-achievable goal, has been removed into the field of impossible and impossible when the government has taken over a majority session of the boards of directors in public institutes. It has done so in my opinion and in the opinion of the proposers of the amendment of the law without any real need. It has argued, and today it also claims that this is necessary because of the economic treatment of public funds. However, this assembly knows very clearly that the national research and development programme in this country has been first adopted in this Parliament and also knows that the country, more specifically the government and other authorities, such as the Agency for Research and Development, set up very precisely, with expert bodies, who will receive any research funds in the country, that these same authorities also control the appropriate use of these funds and that the ministry has a larger system, including the Agency, of excessive control, more than it can formally use after the existing regulation. It is therefore necessary to expel, for example, from the boards of directors, institutes such as the Institute of Chemistry, the head of Krka Development, the head of Lek Development and similar people, and to include politically motivated people in the boards of administration. They do not know such a system in the European Union, north and west of us as we do now. For example, institutes such as "Frauenhofer" in Germany, with enormous, even public funds, have all, including members and members, representatives of the country governments, as well as federal governments among those who manage them, but are far away, even from a third of the votes, let alone they have a decisive word there. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, such a degree of mistrust as we have written in the law to researchers and researchers shows elimination, it is necessary to let this sphere breathe partnerly on a relationship and at a crossroads between users, government and researchers looking for optimal work programmes. Slovenia will benefit most from this. I think that there is also a meaningful policy, so I propose that we support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Madam Minister Mojca Kucler Dolinar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u104	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members. The government and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology have set ambitious goals in their work programme for the development and strengthening of science in Slovenia. First of all, I would like to point out that we were in the scientific research area from 2000 until 2006, in fact, without a cover document, this is without a research and development programme strategy. In 2006, the Government first adopted a resolution on the National Research and Development Programme, and then this honourable assembly also adopted a resolution on the National Research and Development Programme. We also follow trends in the European Union as in the area of increasing the usable value of knowledge in Slovenia, including in the innovative social environment in the economy, and here we have the criterion and lead the quality of scientific and research creation, which must also be included in the educational activity. The results of publicly funded projects must be seen as public goods. This is also the result of the Resolution on the National Development and Research Programme and, above all, the public research institutions carry out a large share of the research in the public interest, which means both for the Slovenian economy, in general for Slovenia in terms of supporting economic growth and social progress. Public institutions are established with a view to carrying out a public service, which the State also provides for such a permanent and smooth operation in the public interest. Research programmes representing the public service and endorsed by the Management Board of the Public Service must thus follow the public interest and national research policy priorities adopted in the already mentioned National Development and Research Programme, which is the responsibility of the Government. From this address, honourable Members and Members, we are convinced that the existing regime is appropriate. With regard to the autonomy of the scientific work, I should stress once again, as well as on the working body, that the issues in the field of scientific and professional work of the public institution, as well as the decision-making of professional issues and the preparation of professional basis for work programmes, as well as the development of the work of the institution, the reception and the competent scientific or professional council of the institution, which consists of experts in the field of work, such as an institution. It is this, that is, the scientific or expert council that gives the Management Board, as well as the Director an opinion and proposals on the organisation of work, as well as the conditions for the development of activities. In the ministry, we are still aware that the research development sector, as well as higher education, must be managed as a whole. Thus, it can breathe, because mainly through guidance, through frameworks through general rules, through objectives, through funding mechanisms and through incentives for education and innovation activities. However, a certain responsibility must also be taken in return. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that I do not need to stress in particular the other, including European and global trends, which show that the bodies of execution are also made up of people who are familiar with the economy, law, finance. In particular, taxpayers, the public expect the Government to have an adequate review or control over the use of budgetary resources, and this is what the Governing Board is doing. The scientific autonomy of the institutes remains and is provided by the scientific or professional world and, of course, by individual researchers. However, I must also reject all evidence that you are not concerned with science by the government. Of course I do. This also shows by an appropriate increase in funds. Both within this year's budget and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable present. In the field of education, higher education, science and research, the experimental work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in terms of politicisation and non-professional moves will obviously continue. Research work in this country is still important. And for the development of this country and for its progress. A spokeswoman, a representative of the government, said before me that it was publically important. Let's ask ourselves what's public. It is not only public what is good for this Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There's something else out there. It is public what is good for people, for their development and for their progress in this country. Not only what's good for this government, but it has its mandate. Under the pretext of greater autonomy, the politicisation of this government is also taking place within the framework of scientific research institutions. What we want to change, those who support this law are a balanced flag of boards of directors with a unitary membership. Which eliminates the government's monopoly, introduced by the government by its law. Or rather, we want to reduce the impact of politics. Or, if you want to, according to the government, because the public only understands the policy that supports your ideas in this decision. It's unacceptable to degrade the field of science. It is unacceptable to degrade the area of knowledge and experience and it is unacceptable that only the individual member’s membership card on an administrative board of a research institution is being degraded. So you don't say I'm talking to you, I'll tell you a few cases. The first such case must be the Pedagogical Institute. Where the assembly of staff has adopted decisions on infringement of the legality of the adoption of the Institute and the call for Director. Where a number of calls to the Management Board have been made, the Director shall be called off because the tendering conditions were not in accordance with the Statute. This was also an invitation from my fellow Member, Barbara Žgajner Tavš. The Institute for Nationality Issues in the composition of the Management Board was released, perhaps intentionally, perhaps not, to the co-founder of the SAZU and the Faculty of Philosophy. If I go to the Chemical Institute. They removed or removed you, representatives and those who support the Government, heads of research departments from Lek, Krka and others. If this isn't a politicization of knowledge and research, then I don't know what we're talking about. And today we have the opportunity to change this politicization. And two more questions for the Minister. I hope you have time, a chance, or even an intention to respond. It can also be written, unless you are allowed time today, or the procedure in this National Assembly. How does the Government take care of the exercise of public interest if it advocates solutions that are not supported by any of the representatives of the public? The first question I want an answer to. And another question. With what right does the Government majority decide on the administrative boards of the institutes, which provides them with only a small part of the funding? Where did you get that right? Where did you pick it? These are two, I will say such fundamental questions to which we would really like answers in the unconnected Members' Group of Members of the Lipa. However, we will certainly oppose the politicization of knowledge, science and research. So we will also oppose the conclusion of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor, I would like only to remind the previous debater that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Minister cannot answer questions. Mrs. Maria Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u108	Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present. With regard to the proposal for a law submitted by a group of Members, the Labour Committee, the Higher Education, Science and Technology Development Committee, with the first-signed Dr. Slavko Gabro, adopted a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The aim of the amendment of the law is to change the ratio of the number of members to the Administrative Committee of the Research and Public Infrastructure Institute. This would eliminate reckless and politically motivated interference in the partnership-oriented relationship between the founder, the research sphere and users. Such a solution is consistent with modern trends in research in Europe, increases the role of researchers and users in decision-making on the work programme of public research institutions and eliminates the monopoly of government and policy in decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Štebe has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, for a very good day. For the third time in this mandate, we are faced with this topic, what will be the share of individual actors in public research and development institutions so that it is actually difficult to say a new one. The Slovenian Democratic Party will follow the decision on the Committee and will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We believe that this change from 2005 has produced suitable fruits and is appropriate. We can discuss the shares of 33% or 25% of individual actors, or whether the Government as an operational representative of taxpayers belongs 50% to the appointment of the relevant members of the boards of directors, public research and development agencies. We believe that this logic has a very profound meaning and that it is, of course, in the Government, that it is responsible and competent to propose appropriate members of these boards. Experience so far is appropriate, there are individual problems that are probably more conditioned in some cases by, as I would say, some other backgrounds. We believe that such an arrangement should remain, according to its relevance, and if, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the importance of using tax money on the government's responsibility, then, of course, it appoints its members responsiblely to the boards of public research and development institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan, you have the floor on behalf of the SD Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you very much very much, and good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Minister and colleagues. We will, of course, vote against this decision because the story of this article is already so long that I do not think it is necessary to stress that the results are contrary to what we have just heard. These changes to the law, which have enabled the Government to take full control of the administrative boards of research and infrastructure institutions, have already brought quite a stir and rebellion among researchers working in institutions. It is interesting, of course, that there have been first changes in the boards and, above all, the directors of these institutions where it is important for the Government to have a strong enough political influence so that it can also influence the direction of research. If this is not evidence that it was necessary to replace the director at the Nationality Affairs Institute, that it was necessary to replace the director at the Pedagogical Institute, where one side and the other can be pressured by ideological influences, then of course no one understands anything in or outside this Chamber. Regrettably, researchers do not have the opportunity to achieve changes in legislation or other changes to sentences, but I think it is important to warn that virtually all researchers, regardless of whether these radical pressures have occurred or not in individual research institutions, have merged, connected and said that they do not agree with this way of managing their research institutes and that they want to have a closer connection with users on the one hand and on the other hand greater freedom in their research work. Bullying, mobbing as we call it, and many other things have been happening since these changes took place on the basis of the amendment of the Research Development Act. And I think that any Government that gives its reputation and what it gives to the reputation of science in our country should have stated that the decision to change the composition of the boards of directors in research institutions has been reoriented, that it has not been good and that it should have been in the role of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Development to say that the committee has decided wrongly, we propose that the law goes into further consideration. I am sorry, we are deeply disappointed that our Minister was not prepared to change the methods used by the former Minister. I was also convinced personally that a young woman would be more cooperative and more understanding of the problems that arise when the Government tries to push the research sphere elsewhere in this area, but unfortunately it is not. The Group of Members will vote against the decision, and I call on you, colleagues and colleagues, as much as I hope you are here, that someone else is listening, however, to consider whether you want to create an enemy front in the field of research and development. I suggest you think carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič on behalf of the LDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. Vice President, a nice greeting to everyone. As the previous Government saw a system of managing research institutes, it showed that it had drawn up a solution that required partnership between key actors. How this government has envisioned the management and management of research institutes has shown that it has changed this partnership with a solution in 2005 that has brought political supremacy over scientific excellence. We have pointed out the danger of such a decision immediately at the consideration of this proposal and all the time of this mandate, these governments and today, as has already been said, we can look at the fruits. But unfortunately, those orchards aren't a success. They appear in the public messages of the top scientists, and I will refer here to the top scientists of the Chemical Institute and the Institute of Joseph Štefan. So it's a report of scientists who have proven themselves in their research, scientific work so far. Not only in Slovenia, but in the international and global space. And we're also talking about institutions that have these references. They have very good cooperation with the economy and European centres of excellence. Today we do not want to hear the messages of these top scientists, who are not politically discolored, but it is only to show that there is no more debate in the boards of directors today on the strategic issues of the development of research and development activities, that they no longer discuss financial plans and programming visions, but that there are partisan, marginal interests that, of course, go beyond the good of Slovenian development and science. Here, of course, the question arises, both to the whole Government and to you, Madam Minister, whether you really think there is no fear that the voice of researchers will not come to light. You will be able to show this today, we could do this in our opinion and invite Members of the ruling coalition to support the bill on the table. So to support the solutions advocated by the top scientists in the top institutions, which also have a very strong impact on the development of the Slovenian economy. I will quote here only two data for industry and for industries in this industry, where these institutes are very strongly involved and connected in their work. Therefore, the added value of the employee in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries is twice as high as the added value of the whole processing industry. In this industry, expenditure on development and research activities is around 50% of the total expenditure that the whole processing activity contributes to research and development. Whether the Slovenian public can overlook these opinions, or can unresponsibly answer these opinions without allowing ourselves in the ruling coalition to speak openly about these written public messages and respond with numbers to these specific warnings. I think that no responsible Government should have allowed this unless this Government is acting in the same way that it has communicated the same message to us with the composition of the boards of directors of this Ministry. We have also warned about this, and we have not supported the human resources solution when replacing the Minister of this important resource. When we talk about how the boards decide why the director of the chemical institute does not want to compete after nine years of successful management. Or because the experience of some other institutes has clearly shown how such successful personnel are accounted for. But let us ask ourselves whether this is a public interest or what will motivate the further growth of the social gross product and economic growth on which this Government is so well founded. Is this not the result of previous governments and good solutions while these governments are directing these development directions in a completely different direction. That is why today we have the opportunity to listen to and hear the voice of these researchers, scientists who make a very important contribution to economic growth and contribute to the creation of prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia, to open the debate on this pressing issue and, of course, to raise the issue by supporting this law and voting against the decision of the home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Sok has the word on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, distinguished fellow Member and Members! The law introduced by Mr Gaber is very short. I could say shorter than his letter of readers, published on page 5 of Acts today, and we have actually dealt with it in the same content a year ago, so it is a story that has already been heard. The only thing that's been said here is maybe some new insinuations, why someone doesn't run, why they don't apply and so on. And we've heard everything else. The proposal is that the boards of the Public Research Institute and the Public Infrastructure Institute should be composed both of these institutions in primary schools and kindergartens. Perhaps the applicant has such a form of composition in front of the eyes, which is in some way, I could say that it is appropriate for primary schools to have three representatives of founders, three workers and three users, so parents say in this case, but for kindergartens I am already wondering if such a way is quite appropriate from the position of founders, these are municipalities, such as the founders and then this board of institutions with its programme, and which it takes directly into the budget of the local community if you want municipalities. And here, of course, in these research institutions, the matter is different. Thus, the founder providing mostly financial resources has three representatives and the others have two representatives. So the ratio is 3:2. And now the argument is why it's not good. We have not heard the right arguments from the proposer. The two arguments that have been put forward are that if the government proposed as its representatives of non-professionals, it is said that if it were the left government, then they would probably already be great experts, but if they were proposed by a right-wing government, they are in principle and a priori, like colleague Gaber thinks, non-experts in the first place, of course, politicians. The last time it turned out very well in Trenja's show, when the Minister of Finance asked Mr Pahor's advisor, Professor Secretary, whether he was only a politician at the time, but now he is an expert, whether he was an expert at the time. Because he said he was an expert in television. Once upon a time, we all know that there was a minister in this same house as a politician. What does that mean? So, that's right, if they're real, then they're all experts, but if they're not real, then they're not experts. And as far as autonomy is concerned, I don't know if it's about neutonics if it's the one who provides all the financial resources or the bulk of it, even though it's up to him to decide what's going to happen to that money. But we had a lot of non-autonomy if I recall Mr Gabra in the school area, when he was the one who gave his consent to who could be the director and who could not be the director. He decided, he gave his consent. He may or may not have given his consent, nor did he need to write an explanation. This was a major intervention in autonomy in the appointment of primary school principals and high school administrators and so on. This is no longer the case, and the minister in this government has actually separated from this great responsibility. More than that, dear fellows, who will care about something, which the applicant is very concerned about, of course, is important for the country how much funding it spends for this purpose. And here I would like to thank the Minister and all those who have made this extension before her and the government in full, that the government for research from 2007-2008 and then 2009 increases by 14% at the annual level and also for technological development from 2007-2008 by 485 and then from 2008-2009 by 63%. So, it's important how much money we spend, not that, dear fellows, whether someone is going to run, whether someone is going to sit in a director's seat on a certain criterion or not. From the point of view of the State, this is important. We will support the decision of the parent working committee in Novi Slovenije. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we cannot support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Research and Development. We believe that it is not sufficiently justified and does not reflect the actual situation in research and development activities, but it is trying to convince in any way of the Government's negative impact on this activity. In view of the fact that it is the country that finances public institutions in the majority that we think the government is in the interest of developing research activity well, because ultimately this is the only way to achieve the kind of knowledge society that we all like to talk about all the time. Public research institutions shall act with a view to carrying out a public service and may follow the public interest and the definition of a national research and development programme. We believe that a certain influence of the government is necessary to carry out research activities and is therefore responsible. The fact is that a majority investor usually retains a majority influence, and this is nothing out of the ordinary in the world. Therefore, there is no exception to maintaining the majority share of the government in the boards of public administrations. In this way, the State monitors the achievement of its objectives and the implementation of good governance by the means it has contributed to this activity and the Government for research activities does not allocate a small amount of resources. As I have already said to the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u120	Nobody wants to go back in time. Indeed, we are all united in our desire to face the future. Today shows we're already splitting up here. By rejecting this law, however, some still wish, despite experiences and despite the practice that has been clearly demonstrated in these three years, that it is weak, insist on the need for public institutions or research or any other political discolouration. Researchers are not children in kindergarten. The researchers are those, Madam Minister, whom you say we will achieve our greatest ambitious goal with them. That's what you said. But Minister, ambitions are achieved through cooperation, negotiation and trust. And what happened last time on the committee, the distinguished Minister, when the representatives of the most autonomous sphere of Slovenian space, universities and others who were affected, were deeply offended by the fact that their work, their profession, their status, their efforts show that there is no such confidence and if anyone, then you should build on that trust. And don't refer to arguments that you can't even draw out of your hand when you say, if a country sets something up, if a country pays something, then it has to order, that's how it used to happen. Today, freedom of spirit cannot be expressed if someone rules over it. And if there is a high school student or a specific staff on the boards of directors, with a party’s membership card, then you will not guarantee this autonomy and ambition. I'm sorry that this really pisses me off and that it's kind of hard to contain dissatisfaction with what's been expressed today when you say you don't support something that would be in public good. Publicly good for you, however, is mere control. The experience with the Pedagogical Institute, with the Institute for Nationality Affairs, with the Chemical Institute, and not talking to other cases that have not been explicitly set up, but they show that we cannot play with fire like this. And here you play with fire when you undermine some fundamental trust that should exist in science as well as in other spheres. After all, the experience of putting people on board boards, including other public institutions, not just scientific ones, has resulted in a catastrophic situation. I'm not just talking about the public institution of RTV, I'm not just talking about the fact that the board of directors of the film and public fund has literally blown up, just with the power of government supervisors who perform high functions in government services, and now they want to do it in those we once appointed as autonomous. In short, to maintain such arrangements as it is said by the largest government party. If she stays like this, we'll be tomorrow, maybe she'll only stay for a few months, but tomorrow she needs to be reopened and changed. It is always necessary to put it back on the table because autonomy cannot be disputed with political dictates, because, at the end of such a game, it is always dangerous, first for you, Madam Minister, who, at the first and perhaps to this point, is perhaps even the most declaratory move, or else you have not taken it back when you have to define yourself to a proposal that could, not only you, but you have given everyone back confidence, have identified it with even greater mistrust. In short, there is no doubt that this time we would not support the law we have signed and rejected the proposal of the home committee, which is of course catastrophic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Willi Rezman will give his position to the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much. On the proposal to amend this Introduction Act, let me say that the DeSUS Group will not support the proposal for a decision offered by its mother's working body. We don't think that everything has to stay the same, and that it's the way it's arranged, the best and the constant. Initially, it was also said that marriage was short - lived. But just because it's short, it's really only one article or just one sentence doesn't mean that it's a minor change. How important these changes must be because they are vital parts of our society and development and because they are about how someone will direct this, how someone will manage it. We are pleased that, even when the law was changing, in 2005, when the public sphere was being maintained, we did not vote in favour of this support and today we do not propose to give it. In doing so, we wonder what is the unrelenting view of the ministry or government. A fundamental error is probably in an argument that is not in fact an argument, but it seems to itself that it is a state interest, that it is a government interest or a founding interest in the public interest. So we just know what the public interest is in advance, but the priority is, if so, it doesn't show anything to do. We know what the public interest is, and if we don't know what the public interest is, we know which door to knock on and ask them to explain to us what the public interest is. Actually, there's something else. This public interest is emerging. Nor does anyone else know what the public interest is, but in the face of very different not only circumstances, including very different actors, the different activities are determined at a certain point in time by what is the real public interest and certainly is not the public interest what is predetermined as some transcendent truth that we can no longer influence. This also leads to banal conundrums. If we look at what is still in force in the current law, we will find that the founder has the right to determine the majority of the board of directors and that the remaining members in the same shares can be proposed by operators and users. The majority of the seven-member committee - the board of directors - means four and since the remaining three cannot be divided between the two, the representative has five members in advance and only two members can be discussed by the operators and users. We do not accept or support such solutions. The second problem is that the Government's or the Ministry's argument is that the founder's representatives ensure the rationality and cost-effectiveness of the spending. Unfortunately, it would be difficult to find very many real reinforcements, empirical facts that would confirm this, and this is also to agree that the most rational and economical is what the founders propose and conclude - read otherwise - the government. We can't accept such a statement either. Therefore, the DeSUS Group would support, if such a proposal were to be, and we do not know, supported the proposal for a decision to change the structure in order to be a trinity and therefore would not support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which tries to but continues to tell everyone else who is the holder of the public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you. And also Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u124	Good day to you all. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the decision of the parent working body, so we will vote against this decision. It's just negative. The fact is that this short law in three articles actually puts the matter in such a normal frame. The third division of those on the Management Board of the Institute makes sense. One third of the representatives of the founders, one third of the representatives of the employees and one third of the users of the public service. I think that we have covered all the segments, both those that use the results of this institution as well as those who are employees there and those who give money and direct direction, to the extent that they direct it, although I think that in the university field, conducting in terms of what to explore, how to explore, is not very meaningful and smart. Of course, we have supported this law from the very beginning, because we are co-signers. The fact is that we should also take into account the opinion of the representatives of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the Scientific Research Centre at the SAZ and other scientific institutions concerned. I think it's right to support him. I doubt the marriage will go through, but the purpose is good, and perhaps this matter will be settled in a later period. Once again - we will vote against the decision of the parent working body, that is to say for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, following the adjournment of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on infringements - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Secretary of State Robert Marolt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Offences is primarily aimed at a more appropriate and proportionate sanctioning of offences. Furthermore, the aim is to achieve a proper and legal decision on the offence both in the swift procedure and in the procedure of the request for judicial protection. The current regime is also coordinated with certain decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in disputes concerning jurisdiction and certain uncertainties of the rules on the enforcement of sanctions for offences are addressed. It takes into account the tendency to sanction more severely certain types of infringements in the field legislation, which is based on the assessment that effective sanctions should be established in order to ensure legal, economic and social security in such a way as to have an appropriate preventive effect, an increase in the ceiling of the fine is envisaged. The main reason is the proposal to increase fines for road traffic offences, but in other areas of regulation of rules of conduct it is also possible to detect a trend of increasing fines approaching the general maximum, indicating that the ranges in force do not allow for an adequate preventive function. It also takes account of the changed situation in society since Slovenia entered the European Union in 2004, which facilitated the movement of persons and services with other Member States of the European Union, which also requires a comparable policy of sanctioning infringements. In this respect, a new form of fine regulation in the area of offences against competition is envisaged. These distortions of competition protection are also subject to longer limitation periods and to the abolition of half the fine imposed by a decision on the basis of a rapid procedure. Furthermore, we propose certain changes in the delimitation of jurisdiction between the swift and regular proceedings, so that the delimitation will clearly depend only on those facts or circumstances which are defined as the legal sign of the offence in question. The change of jurisdiction is also provided for in the case of road traffic offences for which the criminal points are prescribed, in such a way as to be decided by the courts only where 18 criminal points are prescribed. This is essentially just a rule written differently from the rule in force, which remains the same in content. The proposed procedural changes are mainly due to the view that more specific, more transparent and simpler procedures reduce the possibility of different interpretations and significantly increase the possibility of effective use of legal remedies. Supplements to the rapid procedure which increase the level of protection of the rights of violators in the process contribute practically to their equal treatment, while allowing criminal authorities to work faster and more effectively. In the case of a request for judicial protection, the main changes are the introduction of the examination of the contested decision by virtue of an official duty and the prohibition of making a decision worse, since the possibility for the court to abolish the decision of that authority is abandoned and the offence itself is decided. The transition to service under the Administrative Procedure Act in all proceedings follows the conclusion that the arrangements for service under the Administrative Procedure Act in our legal order are the most modern and comprehensive, as is evident from the fact that this regulation is also approached by service in the administrative procedure. Therefore, there is no reason for greater efficiency not to be ensured by the acquisition of such a service system. In addition, in the ordinary court proceedings, it is proposed that a higher court be held to order that the decision of the Court of First Instance should not be annulled and that it should be brought back to a new trial, which means that the decision of the Court of First Instance should be expedited, since the higher court, on the basis of the appeal in the case, will decide definitively also after the content. The bill also contains some changes to the rules governing the enforcement of the fine, in particular as regards the removal of imprisonment. It is estimated that, according to all the solutions mentioned above, which will improve the current regulation of the decision on offences, both with regard to the effectiveness of the prosecution of offences and also with regard to the improvement of the procedural situation of the offender against whom the procedure is instituted. We therefore propose to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President of this Committee, for an explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament and Members of the Government and representatives of the Government! At its 46th urgent meeting on 29.1. and 30.1.2008 thereafter, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure. First, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice, Robert Marolt, provided an additional explanation for the article of the bill, in which he said that the bill proposed an increase in the ceiling for the provision of fines for offences. With regard to infringements in the area of competition protection, the bill provides some new forms of fines for offences, a certain percentage of the company's annual turnover in the previous business year and sets a longer period for the extension of the proposal on this type of offence. The representative also presented amendments to the individual procedural provisions and explained further the other solutions contained in the draft law in the course of the discussion. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service made comments to the draft law on three types of comments, namely nomotechnical comments, in the sense that it was necessary to update individual articles for reasons of clarity and legal systemic comments. The amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendments made by the Committee's amendments took into account the nomotechnical comments and comments relating to the upgrading of the articles in order to clarify the legislative text. However, legal system comments were not taken into account. The representative of the District Court in Ljubljana said that the District Court sent written comments to the bill after they found at the College of Judges that many of the provisions of the bill were changing the law itself. It also stressed that a thorough analysis of the effectiveness of the procedures under the current law should be carried out before the amendment. In the debate, the Committee members highlighted the following. That service under the provisions of the ZUP has proved to be very effective and that there is no reason not to apply those solutions because of those which avoid service. That the amendments did not take into account the essential legal and legal comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposal for a law brought about significant systemic changes which should be considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure. They also pointed out very high fines for individual offences that could seriously endanger the standard of living of an individual. On the contrary, the majority of the members supported the bill because it brings a lot of positive changes and because the purpose of the proposal is to improve the law in force. Amendments of the coalition SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS have been tabled in the bill, and these amendments have been adopted. However, the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 4 has not been adopted. As its amendment, the Committee adopted the amendment at 1 in conjunction with Articles 17, 35 and 35a and 45. The amendments adopted are included in the supplementary proposal that we are considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Act on Offences should be dealt with from two perspectives, both procedural and substantive. It should be pointed out that in this case the content affects the way in which the amendment is adopted. The purpose of the proposed law is mainly to increase the ceiling for the provision of fines for offences, as the need for a general increase in fines has recently shown itself as sanctions for offences. It is estimated that since the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the EU in 2004 to date, the situation in society has changed to the extent necessary and that this has significantly facilitated the movement of persons and services from abroad, in particular with other EU Member States, which shows the need for a general increase in fines for offences and for a more appropriate and effective sanctioning of infringements, which will also be comparable to other countries in the European area. The proposed law also seeks to remedy certain uncertainties in the decision-making process on offences and the enforcement of sanctions for offences. Thus, it is very embarrassing to deal with the issue which authorities may, by their actions, result in the suspension of the limitation of the enforcement of a sanction, since it is now stipulated that such an effect has only the effect of any act of the court or body responsible for the execution, which is why it is not clear whether the act of the criminal authorities falls within this circle. In view of the mixing of procedural laws which are referred to in the Law on Offences of Certain Types of Procedure, or which provides for their reasonable application, the infringement procedure also makes sense to clarify the determination of permitted types of remedies against the different decisions of the authorities responsible for deciding on the offence. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is also necessary to adapt the provision governing the delimitation of jurisdiction between a swift and regular infringement proceedings. In order to avoid the continuation of a situation which creates new disputes on jurisdiction, it is reasonable to consider the proposed regulation on this proposal of the law in accordance with the urgency procedure. Such a procedure also requires the envisaged amendment of the Road Safety Act, which provides for the increase of fines for offences, and in the preparation of the proposal for a law on the prevention of restrictive competition, which provides for a new form of fine regulation in respect of criminal provisions, in a certain percentage, from the company’s annual turnover in the previous business period and is also prepared with a view to aligning with the EU acquis. Due to the applicable rules under the Law on Offences, if not amended, it is lost in importance, as they can only be applied in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of the Law on Offences, which provides for offences in Slovenia, only in accordance with the Law on Offences. Without the amendment of the proposed law, there would be no inconsistency in the envisaged solutions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition and Sanctions Act. It must be said that this would not achieve the objectives of the proposal for a law on the prevention of competition. In this context, the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the law on offences under a different legislative procedure, such as the necessary, negative consequences. The urgency procedure is also necessary in order to harmonise the decision of the Supreme Court in a complaint with the scope of the compulsory examination of the decision of the Court of First Instance. The amendments are also more specifically regulated by the Institute of Removal Prisons. This provides for the removal of imprisonment to be determined to the offender who does not pay the fines, even though he has the means to pay it. Since this prison is not a sanction, but merely a form of enforcement of a legally imposed fine, it is a reasonable early change in the regime on the basis of which a refoulement is carried out against violators who for various reasons fail to achieve their purpose. The removal prison makes sense if the perpetrator pays the fine as soon as possible, but it no longer makes sense if the perpetrator remains in prison for removal until it is legally possible and still pays the fine. In this way, the capacity of the institution to end the sentence, in which the removal prison is also executed, is only occupied, which also causes costs to the State. Therefore, it is justified in order to prevent the adverse effects on the country of the proposal for a law to be dealt with in an emergency procedure. We will support the proposed amendment in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u131	Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We will not support the bill in the Social Democrats' parliamentary groups. There are two sets of reasons for this. Something principled and something concrete about the content of this law. The first principle is that every day we have less confidence in the quality of its proposals. We have a good reason for that. So far, according to our record, which is at least 99% accurate, the proposer has submitted 45 laws to the National Assembly in this mandate. Only 15 of these on a regular basis. Among them are the Law on Courts, which was revised five times. The law on enforcement and insurance four times. The Court Register Act four times and the Offences Act four times. You, ladies and gentlemen in the coalition can believe that this is only a matter of extreme labour intensity, as demonstrated by this ministry. That's not all we believe. In doing so, we seriously point out that certainly such solutions are not entirely preconceived if they are complemented and modified after a few months. That such solutions proposed by this body represent an exceptional burden for operators. These are justices, and many times administrative authorities. Because they need to be able to re-examine what new solutions are, by what procedures, by what right they can and must act and, of course, this is not as simple as the Minister and his fellow workers imagines many times. Such procedures, reduced and urgent and these two-thirds make it difficult or impossible to participate in the profession and very often there is no participation in the preparation of these solutions. And that, finally, means demeaning the work of the National Assembly. After all, the ministry thinks that once it has come up with a solution, it is up to Members to accept what it suggests, whether we can think about it or not. And another group of issues concerns some of the specific concerns expressed in these laws. First. The penalties at stake change several times. New groups are also being identified. The level alone increases from 1,200 to 5,000 euros in individuals. Groups that were previously united for the company are changing, now into independent entrepreneurs, legal persons, medium and large enterprises, and if we look at these comparisons three to four times the risked fine increases. These are such major changes that serious consideration is needed. Not that the Ministry comes with its left hand and says, "That's what needs to be done." It's the other way around. Law enforcement has alerted us to two things. That it is not possible to refer to a proposed law that has not yet been adopted and therefore to increase fines. This is indisputable and is a clear question. Just or someone wants to understand him, or he doesn't care how the law and regulations are regulated. Second. We have been warned to consider whether it is a good solution not to issue a certificate for those who have not paid the fine and not to identify the reasons for it in specific laws, but to arrange it this way. This is just some kind of at least side penalty, which can very much burden this man and the Legal and Legislative Service has proposed reflections on these issues. However, I must tell you that from the District Court in Ljubljana, from the Offences Department, which you were not at, I must tell you that, in addition to some specific comments, many of the system-wide serious considerations and have suggested that legislation, as it is prepared, should not be adopted after a reduced procedure. These are more than valid reasons for us to give thought to others. To the proposer, and especially to the coalition. On these grounds, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u134	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleague. In the parliamentary group, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will not support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Offences Act. We'll stand up to him as hard as we can. Why is he going? As soon as it was actually known that this bill was coming, or a re-proposal, or once again this bill in the National Assembly following an emergency procedure, we signed the proposal, together with other Members, that the law should be incorporated into the normal procedure. It means with all the stations at which it can be well thought out, complemented and justified. In view of the changes introduced by the proposal for a new law, it is not sufficient to provide for the basis of a business provision when it is possible to adopt a law in accordance with an urgent procedure. In a specific case, there are no difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, nor on the interests of security or the defence of the State. Even less to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. Unless of course this law, this bill itself is considered a natural disaster and its author, Mr Sturm. It's the only way. The proposed amendment to the Act on Offences in One Part foresees very high ceilings as the main sanctions for offences. And that's based on something that doesn't exist yet. It's about the same as we did in high school. When you found out from your colleague the result and then you calculated it back, it was sometimes successful, but it was never allowed, there is a possible comparison. This is not allowed, and even in our legal system, it is not possible to refer to something that is not yet in the procedures. Although we have already heard this in the Commission's report on the prevention of corruption today, we have also heard that it will once, as they think it should be. The amendments to this legislation are so extensive, and look at how many articles are changing and what is changing to require more thorough reflections, supported by accurate analyses of the current situation and proposals for solutions. Why was the emergency procedure proposed? Clearly, there are no irreparable consequences for the functioning of the country. It is not a matter of concern to the security or defence of the country and it is not a natural disaster. It's something else. When a proposal for a novel appeared, many criticisms came out, mainly from the profession, colleagues, former colleagues of Mr Sturm, the professional public responded very intensively in a relatively short time, and this is certainly why the Ministry and Minister Sturm decided to follow the urgent procedure so that there would be as little criticism as possible, so that there would be as little discussion as possible, so that there would be fewer warnings about his mistakes and his subscribers do not have a thorough review of his future, what he is doing, how he wants to change everything as quickly. And, as I said, yesterday, we're getting way too involved, and it's pretty damn sure that's what we know. However, the fact that the Ministry of Justice is constantly filling us with some corrections in the National Assembly is also a matter of trying to prevent us from doing some normal work. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the bill in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u136	Now, for the last time, I think it's a nice greeting from this town. Infringement is an act which constitutes a violation of the Government's law, a decision of the self-government local community, which as such is defined as an offence and is subject to sanctions. In the New Slovenia Group, we would like very much to reduce the number of offences and, consequently, sanctions. The Offences Act is a roof law to sanction a wide range of violations. The system must be designed to provide for all possible actual situations of infringements that may occur. Any change in legislation also affects the area of offences, since almost every law also contains criminal provisions by determining offences and the amount of fines. The practice of criminal authorities and courts dealing mainly with procedural provisions also dictates amendments. The last major reform of criminal law that took place in 2003 has, however, been amended several times. We can see that each time changes bring about improvements in the system and are certainly an important measure to address the individual ambiguities shown in practice. This time a novelty is affecting a number of areas. First of all, let me mention that the law is being amended because of the new regulation of infringements in the field of competition protection. The general framework and the prescribed fines are no longer sufficient for the seriousness of infringements of unfair competition. Following the current amendment, the fine can be expressed as a percentage of the company's annual turnover. In this area, out-of-date deadlines are also being extended. Given the seriousness of the offences and the great difficulty in detecting the infringements, the obsolete deadlines so far have been absolutely short. In the New Slovenia Group, we also find it important to change the regime of the removal prison. In many cases, an outlaw would not have achieved his purpose, that is, to pay the fine. The Director of the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions will be able to propose that the sentence of refoulement imprisonment should not be carried out if he determines that it is an offender, in which circumstances indicate that the removal prison would not achieve its purpose. The amendment to the Act on Offences further sets out changes regarding the level of the ceiling for the regulation of fines, the delimitation of powers between swift and regular procedure, and a clearer regulation of the rights of violators in the rapid procedure. Amendments to the request for judicial protection are also proposed, but an extension of the right of appeal is proposed, which the State Prosecutor will be able to bring if the criminal authority declares it first. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the main changes are also in the area of service. To date, service under the Criminal Procedure Act will compensate for service under the general administrative procedure. We believe that serving after the ZUP is very effective, as has been shown in the administrative procedures so far. In most cases, there are problems with those who do not want to accept certain writings and thus avoid them, thereby prolonging and exasperating procedures. In this area, the country must be persistent and decisive. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u138	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the need for a general increase in fines has recently proved to be the main sanctions for offences. The current framework for the regulation of fines clearly does not allow for an appropriate preventive function. We therefore also understand the intention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose an increase in the ceiling for the regulation of fines for offences. More fines are supposed to affect an individual by abstaining from wrongdoing next time. Among the main reasons for increasing the fine's ceiling as the main sanctions for offences is, of course, the decision to increase fines for road safety offences. In this area, fines are also expected to be increased for individuals as offenders. The sanctioning of infringements must, of course, also be adapted to the European framework of legislation. We support amendments and additions that address certain uncertainties in the procedural arrangements for deciding on offences and sentencing and the enforcement of sanctions for offences. We believe that additions to the provisions governing the procedure and issuing of a decision on an offence or issuing a payment order will also contribute to the better implementation of the offence itself. In certain criminal authorities and courts, there have already been delays due to the different interpretation of the relevant provisions on jurisdiction for the service of court judgments on the request for judicial protection. It is therefore appropriate to remove the confusion in the procedure of the request for judicial protection by means of this proposal and expressly lay down the powers to serve certain types of court decisions on a request for judicial protection. However, the proposal for a new way of service in a regular procedure will be cheaper, faster and more efficient, while making it impossible to avoid the use of the General Administrative Procedure Act. With a view to speeding up the procedure and preventing the abuse of justice, we also support the proposed changes in the decision-making and issuing of the judgment in the reduced proceedings. In the future, the accused will not be able to use the objection and thus achieve the annulment of the judgment, and then, by easing in the ordinary procedure, prolong the time to decide, counting on the limitation of prosecution. In the future, for the annulment of the judgment issued in the summary proceedings, it will not only be sufficient for the accused to state against the judgment that he is objecting but to require his active participation in the proceedings, including the indication of the evidence and the facts which are in his favour. He will also have to make a written statement and a written request to be heard by the court at the time of the objection. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have some concerns about the proposed changes to the removal prison regime. It is true that the system adapts to the actual cases of offenders who, despite the fact that they possess certain assets, demonstrate the existence of other obstacles to the establishment and enforcement of a resilient prison which are of a nature such that they do not result in a resilient prison achieving its purpose. This is mainly about the state of health of the offender, his age, psychophysical condition and the social situation in which he lives. Its situation must be such that, at the time of the decision on the objection and even at the time of the possible execution of the refoulement prison, the non-compliance condition is met for the purpose of the removal prison. It also makes sense to simplify the procedure for determining the perpetrator's assets and his ability to pay the fine. In such cases, the Court must carry out all necessary inquiries and may also request a report from the competent centre for social work on the environment and the situation in which the perpetrator lives. In certain cases, however, the Court may also decide not to execute a refoulement prison. These are circumstances that indicate that the execution of a relievable prison would not be in accordance with its purpose. These are examples of the perpetrator being able to pay a fine when he has the ability and the like. We therefore agree that the removal prison is a very sensitive matter and that it makes sense only if the perpetrator pays the fine as soon as possible. We will therefore support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Offences in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, because we believe that they provide quite good solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u140	With regard to the Offences Act, DeSUS has two salaries from the point of view of the DeSUS Group. One which is definitely supported and which concerns the basic ambitions and objectives it has. And the other we're, unfortunately, back to the whole species, we're not the only ones. The proposed amendments are quite extensive, but they go if we rank them among those that are not difficult, which could also be accepted under such a procedure as has been adopted, but there are also many that would really require more reflection, more weighing, more reasoning, which was also the position of some of the other Members of the more professional institutions. The ambitions that we can undoubtedly support are ambitions to lower costs, to increase efficiency, to relieve all those in the judicial system that can be burdened, including ambitions to raise the maximum possible fines in order to increase road safety and ambition, to try to limit competition as much as possible. Therefore, such objectives can certainly be attracted by the DeSUS Group. The path that has been chosen and is intended to achieve these objectives, unfortunately, we cannot fully attract and we have already talked about today just repeating that it actually seems to us that the material is written with a bad conscience. For on only two sides, the proposalr had more than ten times to mention the necessity of an urgent procedure, although most do not agree. When he tries to argue why this urgent procedure is necessary, it seems that he fails the most or sometimes the argument is just inversely proportional. If anyone says that the procedure must be necessary because of the failure to comply with the Law on Offences with Unadopted Laws which are on the way, then this is certainly not a good argument for the urgency of the procedure. If the need for urgency is argued by the fact that there are conflicts of jurisdiction between the courts, this probably does not require an urgent procedure. When it comes to contributing to a better work of criminal authorities, we could also provide it in a different way, not in an urgent way. One of the arguments, for example, was that there was a need for greater efficiency in the service, and some of the analyses made in the judicial system showed relative success, although even over 90% of the successful deliveries were recorded. It is said that these arguments, which have been listed, were not the most weighty and that the College and the National Assembly somehow forcefully adopted this urgent procedure, but now we have it as we have it. Unfortunately, the content comments were not all taken into account. Not those contributed by the Legislative and Legal Service as the first one, and not by the District Court of Ljubljana, which, according to the judgment of some Members and Members, are not such as to be neglected. The legal system comments, as already stated today, have not been taken into account. In the event of inadequate service, it shall persist. It insists on increasing efficiency at the expense of the legal certainty of those in the proceedings. And there was a whole range of other such concerns that were worthy of further consideration, so we are under the impression that more than a proposaler demands the urgency of the procedure, it is less to believe that this necessity is really necessary. The DeSUS Group therefore considers that there is a little too much haste in amending this law, that there is too little analysis that there is too much evidence of underdevelopment by the profession, so that the most French supporters of this proposal for amendments and additions to the Act on Offences in the DeSUS Group will certainly not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We will not support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Offences in the Slovenian National Party. Just because the government has proposed this law following an emergency procedure shows that it wants to be pushed through the National Assembly by as few discussions as possible and by as few conflicting opinions as possible. The fact is that this law itself has demanded and still requires a broader debate, including professional services, not only those on the government side. It's kind of hard for me to talk long and wide about this marriage, but I'm going to be, because my colleague in front of me is also talking about the removal prison, and I'm going to talk about it. In fact, the removal prison is now being deleted in certain segments. The line should be drawn where it should go to a prison for removal, and those who cannot recover the money should be taken away. In short, they are again privileged, for example, gypsies, drug addicts and similar groups of people. Because they can't have a tax collector sitting on any income. Social services, the money they get from social services, it's untouchable. What they earn by selling monuments, copper spoons and similar collection of precious metals, no one can take from them, for it is untaxed and goes directly into their pockets. This is said to be a privileged population of these marginal groups. But they will always pay the fine and always get all those respectable citizens who pay the taxes they go to work and who can easily sit on those miserable salaries they get. The level of these penalties is also appalling. What a crime in the field of carism, if I say so, 1,000 euros. 1,000 euros is almost three wages for workers in Mura. And these workers and such people will be punished, taken away from them everything they have. Some gypsies who constantly break the laws, but they are privileged, for their prison has been abolished. It says well that a prison can't be determined if a payment order has been issued for an offence and so on. A paying order for a gypsy means he squashes it and throws it out the window. To wipe the lower part of your back, it's a piece of paper. It doesn't burn well enough to burn a stove. That's what he's gonna do? He'll crush it and throw it out the window. That's what's going on. And of course, what will our loving authority do? They're probably going to pick up that paper, get it out and apologize to the gypsies for even writing them a paper like that, and the next time they're not going to do it, they're not going to do it again. Because the matter is inexhaustible. A prison that has settled this matter until now, and that will no longer be the case. What was going on and what was going on until this law was passed? The moment the cops came to the gypsy gypsy to take him to prison, he paid off a fine of interest in one piece. I know about the case in the New Town District, where it was one thing, when someone, of course, was owed more than 100,000 euros to the gypsy, and when they came to look for him to be imprisoned, he paid a full fine in cash. Now, apart from some, of course, which one of us can pull 100,000 euros out of our pocket and pay them? Therefore, there is no way to support such a marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Zgorac also, on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will not support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, referred to as Lipa. But not for the reasons we've heard from our predecessors, but for other reasons that I might mention a little later. As far as relievable prison is concerned. You know, prison removal comes when a payment order is issued and it's not paid. That's when there's going to be an extermination prison. Therefore, this ignorance of my predecessor should be justified. The removal prison only comes when someone doesn't pay after three notices. And the imprisonment was essentially one of the sanctions that I think would be appropriate for a penalty or a fine for an offence to be expunged. Removing prison doesn't mean you're going to jail and doing the fine you got. You still have to pay for it. They're removing you because you didn't pay your fines and you're dangerous for the neighborhood. But let's leave. Ignorance is just what it is. The thing we are missing in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, is a form of public works. Public works are one form that would help anyone not to repeat the offence and would not be the one who returns to the path of either a crime or a crime. What keeps us in the eye of the bill is, above all, that the law is proposed by emergency procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I will say a small constitution for all of us Members, says that the law can be submitted by emergency procedure when dealing with the consequences of natural disasters, the difficult consequences for the functioning of the State - then the Government can propose legislation by emergency procedure. None of these moments have occurred in the draft law or amendments and additions to the law on offences. The law could be proposed on a regular basis, at which time we could have a broader debate, including any benefits from proposals by the coalition, the opposition, anyone in this National Assembly. As far as the height of the globe is concerned. The fines should be adapted to the current mood or to the current standard in our country, in the conviction of the Group of Non-Aligned Members known as Lipa. Zlatanj, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed law, but anyone wants to deepen those who commit crimes for some fabulous sum. This fabulous sum, though, I will say, can look at a very - or, can represent a stick to someone to respect from now on. But if we don't have the chance to recover this fine, if we don't have the chance to punish this man, simply because he doesn't have it, he can't give away the mines from where. We know that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia property is an individual of the world, which is right that we will not misunderstand, then the fine has no effect of punishment. Instead of the fine in thousands of euros, as you suggest to someone who works for a machine, say Paloma, Sweet Top, where he gets 430 euros of net salary, and if he carries a red light, you will get 500 euros - just now, with what to pay? We don't do anything, absolutely nothing! You won't lock him up, you won't swallow him up, because you can't take his whole salary, and he doesn't have where to give it. So you didn't follow the purpose of the law. And these fines for the people and these are increasing in the Republic of Slovenia, especially thanks to this government, you will not be able to deepen. Public works, however, are one such institution that we believe would be in the belief of unrelated Members known as Lipa, the story that could be considered in the future when you prepare such laws. What's worse than having to go to the city park, if you were a big privateer before, or if you believe or believe the government is a big competitor - even though we know that this investment in competition in the economic market is not a concern - if you were a big loser then, and you had a membership card of one of the government's customers! We won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, which is 15.35 hours. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u146	Dear Members, we continue with the earlier adjourned meeting. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. I ask that, according to established practice, all of us check together the functioning of the voting apparatus. As a rule, a yellow light must be lit within the voting apparatus. Since I don't see a complaint, it means we can move on to the decisions of the National Assembly. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the report on the Commission's work on anti-corruption in 2006 We are moving on to decision-making on decisions and amendments tabled. We first move on to a second decision, namely to decide on the amendment of the Zares Group for a new 2.a decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving on to a decision on the amendment by the Reale Group for a new 2.b decision. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the third decision. We will decide on the amendment of the Zares Group for a new 3a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 36. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 4th decision. We will decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the 4th decision. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our decision-making on the amendments to the proposal for conclusions. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions to the Commission's Report on the Prevention of Corruption in 2006 as a whole. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that the Commission's first and second proposed decision under the Anti-Corruption Act is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, all present and none against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the conclusions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Ski Safety Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Council. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I am also informing you here that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that because of the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 98(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development Activities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on research and development activities is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. I apologize, we are moving on to an explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm opening the procedure. Here you go. Member Alojz Sok has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already said here on behalf of the Group of Members here today, but there was a minority representation of Members and Members at the time. Now that you are all present, I would like to explain once again that in New Slovenia we will support the decision of the parent working body. Because the current regime seems appropriate to us and we do not agree with the applicant's explanation, because the Government, which also provides, on behalf of the State, financial resources for the functioning of public research institutions such as the public research institution and the public infrastructure institution, has the possibility to propose a majority of the funds to the boards of administration. Such a solution gives the Government the possibility that, on behalf of the public interest and through public funds, it also has a certain impact on what boards are doing, namely, to adopt a work programme, to adopt a financial annual plan and, of course, to confirm different reports to the extent possible. More than who is in this board of directors, of course, in Nova Slovenija we find it important that the Government increases its resources through the budget for both research and research, i.e. they increase from 14% in 2007 to 2008 and the same percentage in the budget submitted for 2009. The Government also provides substantial funds for technological development on behalf of this country and is also significantly increasing in this area. Thus, the sum earmarked for this item increases by 48% from 2007 to 2008 and then by 63% next year in 2009. This means, of course, that the Government still cares about scientific technological development and that, in fact, more than who will sit on which board, it is important how much resources we devote to the functioning of these institutions. However, the fact that any individual has not been elected in which of these public institutions continues to be the director cannot, of course, be the reason for one of the Members to appear and propose a new law with a different arrangement. In Novi Slovenija we will support the decision of the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Ambassador Breda Pečan will speak on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Group of the Social Democrats will vote in full against the proposed decision in the belief that the amendment adopted two years ago is harmful and that the harmful consequences have been demonstrated at this time until the first and second times of the proposed law, which is intended to bring the situation back to the time of the Government's appearance. It is a matter of certainty that such a change is the first, which is unjustifiable, that the Government claims that, by taking care of such a composition of the boards of directors, the interests of public money and the interests of taxpayers due to the fact that, I hope, I do not have any data, but that the Government has not come with such data as to finance most institutions from other sources, but not from budgetary sources. That's the first one. Secondly, to claim that this is a matter of public interest if the Management Board consists of the majority of the members appointed by the Government, or half of the members appointed by the Government, of course, because of the fact that it is not necessary for these people to really care for the realization of the public interest. We had a chance to hear this, to read it, and to see it in a few cases. And a third. They are simply completely excluded from users, who are sure to be the first to finance the operation of these institutes and the second, which is, work or research work at these institutes is also very important for the development of the economy, in particular industry, when it comes to institutes in the technological and technical field. So the excuse that the Government is concerned about the realization of public interest by appointing more than half of the members or half of the members of the boards of the research and infrastructure institutions is, of course, twisted from the vine; I repeat, these are entirely ideological reasons why this has happened, and I believe that the Government should be aware that it is creating itself with such a way of acting as opponents, not to say enemies, even in the research and scientific sphere. We will vote, as we have already said, against and invite you colleagues to do the same if you want to do so [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Comrade Ljubo Germič will speak on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Four top scientists, professors, Doctors of Science, Roman Jerala, Janez Plavec, Boris Žemva, Dragan Mihajlovich, members of the Management Boards of the Institute of Josef Štefan, the Chemical Institute in a public letter report that the change in the membership of the administrative committees where the directors of the development departments of Lek, Sava, Krka and have been replaced, could even say or on a political line related other members, these scientists warn us that there is a delay in the work of these institutes, that there are no priority development visions and strategies within these institutes and that, of course, partnership between three - both founders, users and performers - actually no longer functioning, given that the fact that the founder has a majority share in the boards. Here I would like to remind you that these are institutions that represent the world's reputation and pride of the Republic of Slovenia in this area and that this is an important segment of research in the field of the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. What this means for Slovenia and for its economic growth, I would like to remind you once again that the added value in these segments is twice as high as the added value in the whole processing activity. And that the amount of funds allocated from this part of the economy for research and development activities is around 50% of all funds allocated for these purposes within the overall processing activity. Of course, at the LDS Club, we cannot agree that only an increase in resources is already a criterion for Slovenia to achieve research excellence and achieve higher economic growth and economic breakthrough. Of course, decision-making must be ensured in these administrative committees, which will have a strategic interest in ensuring the excellence of Slovenian science and the successful development of knowledge transfer to the economy. Such a composition of the boards of directors, as it is now for the founder to have them in the majority, is indicative of negative consequences. This is just one of the appeals of scientists, how the regulation brought about by the 2005 legal amendment brings bad results. Therefore, in the LDS, we cannot in any way conclude that the proposal for a law amending this constitution is inappropriate for further consideration. And, of course, we appeal to all colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly, if we want the good science of Slovenia, if we want the development of the Slovenian economy well, then let us allow it, listen to the voice of these scientists and continue the debate which is intended to form the membership of the Administrative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Comrade Paula Gantar will speak on behalf of the Zares Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we will indeed vote against the decision of the parent working body. The question we are talking about today is, of course, the question of the autonomy of science and the autonomy of research work. This autonomy is not only the right to an abstract freedom of research in a constitutional sense, but, of course, it is also the autonomy of the resources with which we can explore, with money resources, human resources and other resources. And this autonomy is seriously and thoroughly threatened by the fact that the boards of directors in research institutes are composed in a way that predominates policy and, in particular, one policy option, which is quite clear from the composition of these supervisory committees and administrative committees when we look at who has been replaced and how it has been replaced. I would like to remind you that you can go look at a number of prominent foreign research institutions and institutions, and everywhere you will find that the political sphere has no decisive and decisive influence on this activity. More than that, what surprises me is the indescribable courage and if you want the audacity of politics, that she knows and thinks she knows what the objectives of the research work are. If that were the case, then, of course, in the history of science, there are many things that have been revealed and that are today an integral part of our lives, it would never have been revealed and written about by many publicists and scientists in this area. If we want to make a meaningful contribution to science in politics, it is best to provide it with a stable framework, transparent co-financing, because we finance it in one way or another, and leave science to choose its own path, along with the industry and, of course, the activities it affects and is affected by. I would also like to draw attention to the meeting of the Union of Higher Education and Research Workers ten days ago at the Institute of Josef Štefan, where they presented different data on these, that the share of funds is growing, but vice versa, the resources are falling, even personal incomes are falling and it was pointed out that the autonomy of this research work and decision-making is key to the success and perspective of research in Slovenia. So that, as I said, we will vote against the decision of the parent working body and, as we say, I must say for ourselves if we will ever be able to form a ruling coalition, it will be one of the first laws we will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of unrelated Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this will be the final appeal of those we have signed under the bill. For two days we are practically listening to big words in this House about corruption, customerism, nepotism and so on. But you know, from words to reality or moving in the other direction is a big step. We offer it to you today, we offer to prove it, and I will tell the wider Slovenian public, including the scientific and research spheres, that we don't care what happens to the independence of state institutions, what happens to the autonomy of independent institutions of the scientific and research sphere. In the past, a law has been passed that changes the composition of the boards of scientific research institutions: the government has a majority. And that means that the government has a majority or the last word in the frame. Even in the case of staffing within the boards, not least in the directorships of individual institutes. And I believe you know that the Pedagogical Institute, the Institute of National Affairs, the Chemical Institute, the Institute of Joseph Štefan, which was discussed before me by my fellow Member Germić. These are, respected colleagues and colleagues, things that require serious thought and a step in a different direction, unless we make another hook under the clienteleism of this government. Leadership shall be appointed to persons who have neither professional competence nor have knowledge nor legal conditions in order to be appointed to certain bodies or to certain locations. But that makes it possible for them to have a law that is currently in force. What we want to do is change the composition of the boards of directors. Simple! In this direction or in this sense, the possibility of equal partnering in key decisions in the context of the operation of an institution and, last but not least, the use of State resources. And when someone said, if a country is financed, then it must also have absolutely subordinate institutions. These times are over, dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that we do not care about autonomy and the independence of the scientific and research sector or spheres, too important areas are this!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Given that there's still an interest in explanation, I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we adopt laws, we must act on what we think. And since we are not a people, the people have chosen us, and we must also look to the people for whom these laws are intended. I believe that the call in the National Assembly in 60 Doctors of Science to adopt this law is that a protest assembly of researchers was organised for this law on 24 January at the Institute of Joseph Stefan. Given that universities, as you have seen before, and institutes that the union does not stand on this side and the union has also sent letters to all Members and Members of Parliament, it seems to me that it is extremely bad for this country if it is not taken into account. The union writes: "Dear Members and Members, on behalf of 1500 researchers and researchers, members and members of our union, we invite you to support the proposed amendment to the Law on Research and Development. The current composition of administrative committees and public research institutions has proved extremely problematic since the change two years ago, and the latest events at various Slovenian institutes show that the Government does not want to be satisfied with the possibility of being voted on every single time at meetings of the administrative boards, but it wants to submit to itself by this amendment of the statutes of the autonomous research institutes so far. This can be devastating for the future of Slovenian science." I think what they said is true and I don't understand the government of Janez Janša, how he's digging a battle axe and he's blind and he's deaf to the entire professional public, the interested public and all the unions, and he's dictated to them some non-European solutions while he wants Slovenia to become a beacon in Europe and this lighthouse. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We can only achieve through science. [[...]] I will oppose this decision on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you. This Government has also written down in its acts the principle that knowledge has moved and is the basis for development. In the autumn of 2005, the Minister of Research introduced to the National Assembly a proposal for a law to remedy some irregularities and impracticalities. One thing is - he knew well enough the work of the research sphere to know where to cut down, and the understanding of the state as ownership and understanding of the subsystems as property of the ruling coalition was thus confirmed in this law. Minister Zupan was followed by a minister who promised to hear what the research sphere and the academic sphere were telling her. Clearly, he does not hear the ears talking about the need to listen to those who are also helping to achieve high goals. Nothing's helping! She told us that she would not support this law, as would the Government, which we are proposing to another group of Members and Members. If it does not go to the second, we will invest in the third, but what is happening now in this mandate is unacceptable deafness for what it says and requires, in fact, the most pulsating part of the Slovenian nation. It's a shame about this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Moze is wrong to talk about Slovenia, which is supposed to become a lighthouse in Europe. Slovenia is already a lighthouse with this law, namely a lamp of delicacy. Such a narrow concept of the composition of committees run by public institutes, because in Europe they do not know anywhere north and west of us. Such mistrust as we listen to in relation to highly qualified researchers and researchers - you can't find it anywhere else! In fact, we tell them a very simple thing: "Don't ask us how the institutes are managed, be content to give you money. We give you more money, so be obedient." It smells like totalitarian intelligence. Only regimes affected by such behavior speak and communicate, especially to researchers, such things. Here some, our fellow Member thinks he is funny and funny when he compares the respected professor Dr Dragan Mihajlović with Draga Mihajlovic. He believes he's funny because he's been triggered by this association in his head. It appears, for the first time, to the lack of a basic culture, and for the second time, to the complete ignorance of the issue that it decides. Whoever doesn't know who Dr. Dragan Mihajlovich is and who's funny at this institute, let them choose to open their home page on the Internet and let them know who he's talking about. These people have done more for this country than such a Member could if it were given to him to live for 200 years. I hope they can work in the future. I agree with my colleague Gantar. This law must be amended as soon as possible if it is now possible [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Colleagues, please! Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 2002, a law was passed in the form of the composition of the boards of public research and development institutions, as was the second time that a first-signed Member, Mr Gantar, and those cosigners, attempted to propose. Until 2005, the institutions did not form administrative committees in accordance with that 2002 law. Why not? We can ask ourselves that. All three partners who proposed members of the boards did not take care of this. It is only now that you are the most responsible partner, this is a representative of taxpayers, the Government, that can appoint half of the representatives of the boards of directors of these institutions. Why? I think the solution is appropriate because, in fact, someone has to be responsible for the use of taxpayers' funds or money. And someone has to make that decision. I miss your arguments, or at least the use, or the thought of reform, because if the success of our research and development sphere depends on the composition and who will appoint members of the boards, then the solution is very simple, but unfortunately it is not. Reform, ventilation somehow establishing a partnership between the higher education, research and economic spheres is what you do not want to talk about [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and in a similar way, you perform organised by all those affected, who are only afraid that there will actually be an overheating of this area, the most critical area of Slovenian society for [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? Mrs. Shirca, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. This decision must be rejected for the sake of reform. Because of the need to reform, as you say, the overwinding, the reform to depoliticise this system. And if it doesn't happen in science, then it doesn't just happen to you, but it's bad for all of us, especially the minister from whom much more was expected than in the time since she was Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much. In my own name, I would like to reiterate my support for the proposal of my mother's working body. Of course, Mr. Gaber can teach us in this National Assembly about many things. However, he was that minister who had been deciding for a long time who would be the principal, who could and who could not be. This was not done by the saints of the institutions, but by his consent. He may have given his consent or not given it. He didn't even need to explain why he didn't give consent. I'm not going to continue here, but you're the last person here who can teach us about autonomy, democracy and similar concepts and politics and so on. If anyone has politicized this school system, then you are the first and greatest in this country to do so. I repeat: not everything is in money, of course not. But at this point, much more money is being spent on this area than was spent on any other government. These rates of growth, as I said earlier, are almost 50% in technological development in 2008-2009 and 14% in research activity annually. Nobody said the government said we'd give you the money, and now you have to be quiet. You just made that up, and that's how you reverse these arguments. However, we have always said that, on behalf of this country, the Government must take care of transparency and the cost-effectiveness of the use of these funds. This is certain, and I am sure that citizens also agree, but not all individuals, of course not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. According to my assessment, you have exceeded the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of explanation, but of course I cannot cut into words at that time. In view of the fact that a number of debates by the desirable Members have indicated their intention, I am opening the application procedure. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Here we continue to face the fact that when we decide on current proposals, we are discussing history. I myself would not have any difficulty discussing Dr Gabra's proposals, the former Minister of Higher Education, but this does not lead anywhere. This time we have a proposal that tries to fix what was later done wrong. By the way, this law, which Mr Sok attributed to Mr Gabra's Ministry, was, if I am not mistaken, adopted during the time of Minister Lucija Čok. But it doesn't say anything again. You are forcing us to talk about the things that are happening today in ten years, when no one will remember who the Minister or Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology is at the moment. What is a problem is that already the vast majority does not know whether it has any specific ideas and whether it is in the service of ideology or is in the service of progress in science. Mr. Stebe was just talking about some wind. Where the wind you're promoting blows up, there's a desert. And that's the problem with these discussions. The wind is synonymous with some openness, not with things closing down, things being controlled. And if anything needs openness and if anything needs the absence of the Government's hand, it's culture, it's science, it's higher education and it's different social sub-systems. The one who didn't learn it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u171	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will vote against the decision of the mother body. We talked a lot there. Of course, I don't like to hear things that aren't real. Some of the institutes of scientific research organisations have 10% or 20% of the state budget. They get everything else on the market and that is, of course, decided by the people set up by the Government. What about here? Where's that great justice now? But that's not what this is about. It's just a mistake, a flatization and so on. It's something else. The point is that this coalition and this government are extremely unreasonable counter-reasons. To declare progress, development, knowledge, but, on the other hand, it continues to lower all these standards. You don't want an education for this profession, you don't want an education for those professions to get as many uneducated citizens as possible to manipulate them as easily as possible. Of course, this counter-reason is very close to what the red farmers did when they were people, whether they had glasses or not, and of course they were treated this way. That's how far things go. That's why I think this has to be cut off. It's not about whether it happens today or six months from now. At this point, however, the autonomy of the university, the autonomy of research institutions and, of course, of whom there is something to be trusted in this world must be taken into account. The point is, however, that there are people of high honour who have high morals and cannot be regarded as property of the country. It's government property. As the property of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much and the Member of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will stand alone against the decision of the parent working body, as will the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament, Lipa. The scientific research sector must remain independent. If anyone is afraid of it, let the one upstairs you like to refer to help him. But he has to stay independent! I have no idea what right this country is taking or whether this Government is taking the right to have, to the extent that it has already made possible some additional funding for the scientific research sector, even an unlimited impact on this alone. It's a right the state can't take. Someone in front of me was talking about appointment, but it's not the subject of this law, the principals. Appointment of principals. Nothing's changed. The minister now confirms these people, but unlike the previous minister, more by the card system - where someone is present, where the client is. This is the case, for example, with a school in Jerena, where they cannot agree on it until there is a real card, and there will be no principal. Even if someone is scientifically capable of being a principal there. But this case happened there when SDS activists raced around the village and they said, "She won't, and she won't, because she's not from SDS. This will be because it is ours, even though it does not meet the conditions." This is how this government goes. But it's not the right way either. As possible for some of the previous ways was not right. But it's also not the right way to appoint principals. It's not the subject of this law. Someone also mentioned transparency. Transparency, however, is completely lost in this government. If we move on. First, for the sale of state property, even if we go back to the principals. Where's the transparency to talk about her? Come on! Stop fooling around. Support the law and you'll do something good for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 28. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the assembly of the proposed decision has not been adopted, so the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, as the parent working body, will consider the proposal of the law in second reading and prepare for the Committee at one of the following meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The word is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to raise the issue of voting and rejecting the Law on Amendments and Supplementing the Law on the State Council, because it is indeed enshrined in the Constitution that the Law on Elections in the State Council is adopted in 98 by a two-thirds majority of all Members, but Article 96 states that the law governing the organisation of the State Council does not say that it is adopted by a two-thirds majority. Now, the story is a little long, because the Law on the State Council is just one, they're not two. According to the rules, given that another part of the law should be adopted by a two-thirds majority and the other part by a simple majority, it should be two laws. This is where the first mistake was made, but good. This was in 1992, and a lot of water has been flowing since then. Among other things, it also sailed through this water, amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council in 2005. At that time, we adopted amendments to this law in order to prevent the possibility that the President of the Council of State would be a professional official, and we accepted this amendment by a simple majority. The law was passed by a two-thirds majority, it was amended by a simple majority, and now the amendment that we accept by order or decision of the Constitutional Court is re-adopted by a two-thirds majority. Here the question is whether we did the right thing in 2005 or whether we did it today. That is why I am asking a procedural question, not a proposal because I think we can do nothing about it today. In particular, the Legislative and Legal Service shall examine this complication and inform Members and Members of Parliament of what they should actually do. The fact is that if we believe that we have to adopt the law all the time, to amend it with a two-thirds majority, the amendment was unlawfully adopted in 2005. So please let the Legislative and Legal Service verify what has happened in all the proceedings, let us know and say: Has the amendment of the law been adopted today or not?Oh, my God! And: What happens in this case is the amendment of the law, which is published and also included in the copy of the law, the officially consolidated text, which is published and also adopted by 55 votes, not by 60 votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanov. Before the vote on the Law on the State Council, I warned you about the required majority of the votes. In the framework of the Sectional Services of the National Assembly, we have also made contact with legal experts, where it has been explained to us that with the same majority as the basic law is adopted, additions are also accepted. The basic law was adopted in 1992 by a two-thirds majority. Of course, you have every right as a Member of the National Assembly to address the various institutions which, in my opinion, will give you the same opinion. But I would like to correct my mistake a little earlier, and the result of the vote left the display too quickly. Earlier, 70 Members and Members were present, with 41 votes against 28. [[41 votes in favour]] [[Against 28]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. And that concludes the point. And we continue with agenda item 14, Mrs. Pečanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u177	This is also the case, Mr Vice-President, that I also drew attention to the illegal amendment of the Law on the State Council in 2005, 14 July. I think it would be very useful, however, if my procedural proposal were to accept that the Legal and Legal Service, which also has all the information at its disposal, would find out or tell us what is actually coming out of this right now. For this reason, I do not think it is just right to convey to an individual Member or Member the search for the true truth, given that this year we have a great deal of talk about truths and true truths and wrong truths and to find out what we actually did today and two or two or two years and a half years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The National Assembly has not adopted the bill and, as far as we are concerned, the legislative process is closed. Mrs Pečanova, you have one option - an initiative to assess constitutionality, you can also request constitutionality, of course all the roads are open to you. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Offences Act. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 18. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Framework Convention of the World of Europe on the value of the Cultural Heritage for the Society. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. The point you want to talk about is I've finished, and that's how it's going to stay until the end. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is on the defence motion for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the operation of the Centre for the Cooperation of Security Authorities debt you. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On behalf of the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the procedure for the transfer between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway, that is to say, the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Norway. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There were no applications for discussion. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I see you've got your hand up. Procedural? The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u179	I don't know. I have a feeling that my hand is longer than my colleague, Darje Lavtijar Bebler's arm, and her hand has been raised at least four times in the last five minutes. And I would like to draw your attention to Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which says, "A Member who wishes to speak about the use of the Rules of Procedure [[Procedural question]] That the Chairman's word as soon as he demands it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than 3 minutes. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure." I would, of course, like to say that it is right for the Members who raise their hand to give the opportunity to speak about the use of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of where we are on the agenda, and regardless of whether you think she will talk about the point that has already passed. This will be your decision after she has explained her procedural proposal in three minutes. Therefore, I ask you, Presidents, to take note of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure and of my colleague Darja Lavtijar Bebler, who wishes to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, to allow this to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure. This is the minimum culture in the round hall of the National Assembly, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much for explaining the Rules of Procedure. As we say, we're at 26. Agenda items, this is the Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Seabed Area. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an application for a third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Mrs. Bebler, you will be given a word after this vote. Is that acceptable to you? Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. DAR LVTIJAR BEBLER, HERE YOU GO.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u181	Mr. Vice President, thank you so much for this opportunity to give me the word I signed up for five minutes ago. I wanted to give my opinion on the adoption of the Law on the State Council. I think that, as presidents, even though you are all-powerful, we should, however, act and give us the opportunity to speak in accordance with Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have a bit of a problem with the adoption of the law on the State Council. What we have adopted today is just a law on the State Council. According to one article of the Constitution, this is Article 96 of the Constitution and it speaks of the organisation of the Council of State governed by law. But this is not a two-thirds majority. And that is why I would like the opinion of some relevant or legislative-legal service, or someone else, an expert who would tell us what we are actually accepting today. I'm sure we don't need a two-thirds majority because it's about organising the State Council. And you just swung and thought everything was clear to you. I believe you understand everything, but still, as a lawyer, I have some doubts, let those healthy doubts be that you may not be right. And if my colleague, Mrs Bred Pecanov, has already expressed this in her opinion or doubt, then it would be the least of what is, even from the point of view of the Head of the National Assembly, to allow an opinion on what is right and what is wrong or what is wrong here. I believe that you are in a hurry to finish the meeting of today's National Assembly as soon as possible, but things are serious and require some kind of professional opinion and argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you for repeating the same procedural proposal in the framework of your parliamentary group for the third time. Comrade Skull, do you also want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you very much. But I would like to invite the President of the National Assembly to take the presidency. I just have this privilege from the back seat to see what's going on in the entire hall, and I can see that you systematically don't want to see social democracy colleagues raise their hands. I don't believe that you see so badly, I don't believe that this is random and I think that you are tired or whatever it is, it doesn't matter to us, I suggest to Mr President Tsukati, who is also monitoring this, who is not the last person responsible for the work of the National Assembly to replace it, that we don't necessarily get angry at each other so that we can do our work normally. President, the vice-presidents are elected primarily to respect the Rules of Procedure, to give the floor to learn about certain things as well. I believe that Mr Plevelj is of great benefit to them, but may I be forgiven, Mr Plevelj is not the one who would be a reference to the decision-making of the National Assembly. Mr President, if you have any good will, if you wish to bring this meeting to an end, take this proposal for a well-meaning one, not least that Mr Peca was the Vice-President of the National Assembly, also at the will of the village and against the will of the majority of the opposition who wanted Mrs Majda Potato at that time. I ask that you do your work without sitting around like you don't know what's going on in this Chamber and how certain Members and Members are being bullied, this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your opinion. We'll continue the session. Now for the fourth time, we've heard a procedural story about a point we've already completed. I told you that the profession with which the leadership of the National Assembly consulted gave us instructions on the majority needed to deal with the previous or four points back. If you have a problem with this, it's your right, it's not your duty. I would like to point out, however, that we are at the 28th point, that I will no longer accept procedural proposals in connection with the law on the State Council in the debate. So we're in frame 28. Agenda items - This is the Defence Proposal for a Act on the Ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on one side and the Republic on the other side of the Conciliation List. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted in the context of the second reading, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you, President, for allowing me to explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members. We will support the ratification law. It is very important that we conclude this process, which, last but not least, contributes to linking the Western Balkans with or preparing for this connection. Above all, I wanted to make sure, Mr Vice-President, that there was still an institution to explain the vote that you did not allow me in previous votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the procedure. There's a member of Parliament, Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I would like to say above all on this occasion that I will support this law and congratulate Montenegro on meeting all the conditions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Let me remind the National Assembly that one of the conditions was also the acceptance of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of Montenegro. Adoption and implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of Montenegro, which was made immediately after they became a State of their own. And it is interesting that a number of former employees of this National Assembly were involved in the testing of the review of this Rules of Procedure. Even those who used to sit on the right from the chairman. And, of course, the fundamental question was whether they would respect the Rules of Procedure in Montenegro and, for example, whether they would also respect the provision they had copied from our Rules of Procedure, which said: "If the Presidents of the National Assembly consider that a specific legal question should be resolved at the meeting itself, he would invite the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to give an oral opinion." A few weeks ago I was in Montenegro and there the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were used. When we ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement today, it would be good for the Presidents to use the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was the ideal for Montenegrins to adopt their Rules of Procedure and they today use it more effectively than we do. I hope that there will be no need to import the presidents from Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you for your explanation. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, before we move to the 29th point, there is a procedural proposal by colleague Školč, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I sincerely apologize to you, but we have a president in this House who doesn't hear a clear call. We have a vice president who speaks of terms that the Rules of Procedure do not foresee. The leadership of the assembly is undefined, the Rules of Procedure are an undefined category, and at the same time there is some power behind it that interprets how laws and other decisions are taken. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask for a 30-minute recess to make a formal written proposal to the President who hears poorly that he will be able to read it and that we decide whether we will continue to participate in the meeting. We associate this with deciding on the next point, where we would like you to find a way for the Government to explain how it will and which body will report, according to the ratification coming to the United Nations, as the body registered to fight corruption. This could not be answered by the parent’s working body. This is an important question, and also from this point of view, we would like you to find a way for the Government to say, given that we are speaking for two days, which the body has considered to be the most appropriate one to register, in accordance with the ratification, which I do not doubt will be accepted, as the one ordered by the convention to be adopted, let us say in 40 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you, too. Given that I know that you obviously know the Rules of Procedure very well, of course I will order a recess just before the vote. Until then, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, which you have accepted, we will suspend the meeting. We're at 29. It's a defensive bill on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. The position of the SD Group of Members will be presented by Mrs Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u191	Mr Vice President, first of all, I ask you to decide which point we are on. Because he has just made a procedural proposal, Mr Jožef Školč. Did we really skip that point already? Are we at this point when it comes to ratifying the United Nations Convention?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u192	Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, I advise you to listen, as do most Members, that you are concentrated in the meeting of the National Assembly. I've told you twice that we're on the 29th item of the agenda. I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I listen to you and sometimes I can't believe my ears [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u194	Do you understand? [[...]] Then I ask you to have a presentation of the Group's position where this is usually done.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u195	I'm listening to you, and I can't believe your ears. Not in particular when it comes to reasoned proposals by sent-mail groups or Members, which remind you of the relevant points in this Rules of Procedure. As far as we are concerned, the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption is concerned, but I would like to say, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, that, of course, this Convention or this law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption will be supported. We've been waiting for this marriage for years. I have also asked the Minister of Justice himself several times, who is substantively responsible for this ratification, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is formally responsible for when this National Assembly is to ratify this law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Of course, we look forward to this fact that we will be able to ratify this law today. We also look forward to this fact that the Government has withdrawn from all those questionable games with which it has tried to introduce into this draft law also certain provisions which do not go into the law of ratification of an international convention. In this respect, I can only express the satisfaction of the Socialist Group of Members that this has finally come to the National Assembly and that we can gladly ratify it. And from here on out, of course, we are implementing this convention. However, we, like the others in this National Assembly, are interested in which body referred to in Article 6 of this Convention will be communicated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Secretary-General of the United Nations as the body responsible for participating in international transport on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u196	Thank you. I continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, I first protest that you did not give us a break when we wanted, because the point has not yet been opened. Mr Plevelj, I ask you to instruct people before the meeting so that they can do their business in the way that is absolutely necessary. But there's no help here. I hope that before the decision, we will also get an explanation from the Government, which, as you will probably look again at the Rules of Procedure, is not intended to get a word, so I would point out that the Government has the possibility of giving a written position at that time half an hour. I also call for a written position on which anti-corruption body will be designated by the Secretary-General of the United Nations as the body which Slovenia considers to be in accordance with the Convention, which we also support in the LDS. We are pleased that there has been a brainstorming and that we have not made any more mistakes and that we have done the ratification law in a way that is not appropriate, with the Government's proposal that we include a non-existent body in the ratification law. Fortunately, this was not adopted at the end. This would be an additional contribution to this piano image of foreign policy, or this orchestra, which prepares papers that travel around the world. Therefore, I repeat, we will support this proposal, but we expect that we will be resourceful in this way, Mr President, even more when it is necessary to violate the rights of Members and Members to find out in the National Assembly and the Slovenian public what authority they will announce to the Secretary-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group is to be presented by Matej Lahovnik and the position of the DeSUS mag Group. Franz Gnyardsich, who isn't. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we will move on to a decision on the bill. Before that, I would like to inform you that I have not been warned by the Legislative Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted on the home work body would have made the bill inconsistent. Is there any explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Comrade Skull, am I correct that you requested a 15-minute paed break by making a decision? 30 minutes. On a proposal from the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, I give a 30-minute pause. We'll start the session at 5:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the earlier adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Mr. Skull, would you like to give an explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In our Group of Members, we expect the government representatives to say it orally because we have not received in writing what we can do in writing, which we are obliged to do in accordance with the Convention, which we are about to ratify. It's kind of unacceptable for us to play bats in this house. We ratify the treaty they have adopted in the United Nations, we are obliged to take certain steps, but we are not worthy as the National Assembly and as Members and Members to find out which body the Government will announce to the Secretary-General. This is an extremely unusual and unusual situation. I don't think it's possible for any of the government to tell us at this point which authority will be announced. These things aren't done in secret. These things are being done transparently, in a way that people know what they're going to ratify. Last but not least, the ratification complication was linked to the attempt to bring into the ratification law a body of a government official we do not yet know. Procedural reasons why you and your colleague sitting at the President's table, light barantals, do not mean that the government is hiding something, otherwise they would do it. It is only what we expect and hope that half an hour has been enough time for you to give the government 2 minutes to say whether this is the body that reported today in the State Assembly on the situation in this area, or whether they believe that it is necessary to do so, as they say, from the government an even more independent body that will respond directly to President Janša's cabinet.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u201	Thank you very much. My colleague, I know that you know that I am not in the role of chairman to request an explanation from the government. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has had the opportunity to declare its time in this debate. I can't ask them to do that, and I know you know that. Even though I cannot ask you to do so, I ask you, honourable Members and Members, that we all show so much elasticity together, if none of you would object to the proposal for the government to get it, even though it has not declared and expressed its wishes by word, for some time to explain, if the government representative would, of course, want to do so. Even according to the Rules of Procedure, what I have done now is not possible, so I ask you whether any of the Members present and Members of Parliament are opposed to the proposal to make this exception this time, but only this time. I ask that those who oppose you raise your hand. I have seen that it is quite a few hands on the part of Members who have opposed your proposal. Mr Tanko has applied for a new procedural proposal. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I propose that the meeting be held in a manner such as the rules of procedure adopted in the previous term. We are in the voting phase, there is no explanation of vote and nothing else is possible at this stage. The suspension of the sitting was made. I hope that colleagues have been able to consult on how they will vote in this particular point. And that's practically all that's left for us. Everything else is a meaningless entanglement and delay at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Especially thanks for not blaming me, too. Can we proceed with the meeting as envisaged on the basis of the adopted agenda and the scenario for today? Thank you. So before the vote, once again, I stress, the draft law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Can we vote? Explanations by colleague Cwickl [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me, I just wanted to explain what you just wanted. The explanations of vote have passed and we are only in the voting phase. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break five. On the day-to-day basis, this is the third draft law on the definition of areas and the designation and labelling of settlements, streets and buildings within the framework of the ordinary procedure. Colleague School, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjati, I ask you once again to take over the meeting. Mr Vice-President is not in good shape today, because we had a discussion earlier on ratification in relation to applications, but not explanations for votes. He prevented other colleagues from giving further explanations of vote. I don't know if that's what you're telling me, it doesn't matter. He's replacing you. I'm really asking that there be no further complications, if you're here, you can change it when you're conducting the session. We're driving from mistake to mistake, and that seems bad to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u205	My colleague, thank you for your concern for my condition. We continued with the practice we had in this National Assembly. This means that there is no more explanation of vote after the interruption or after the takeover of the pause by a parliamentary group and we are only during the voting period. As a matter of fact, we're moving on with the broken 5th point. On Wednesday 30 January and Friday 1 February this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, on the basis of paragraph 138, the President of the Rules of Procedure would carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 17, the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. I'm opening the application procedure. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u206	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, we propose deleting the fourth paragraph of Article 17, which provides that prior to deciding on the decision to determine the name of the settlement in the national mixed areas, the participating municipalities should obtain the consent of the competent self-government national community. I think it's too much of a jurisdiction given to these self-governing national communities. In fact, it's about interfering with things that don't concern these nationalities. We live in the Republic of Slovenia and no one in Italy thinks that the Slovenian national community should have anything to say about changing or naming names. Or worse to put a veto on. I don't think we can handle things this way. National communities in Slovenia, both national communities, Italy and Hungary already have huge ratings that the Slovenian community does not have anywhere, either in Hungary or in Italy. I think let's take care of our own things, let's think a little bit about the Slovenian state, and let's not let this now, step by step, go inside, even into whether a settlement should have, what I know, one Slovenian name of a fighter against fascism or it will be banned. This can happen to us in a short time. I think it's high time we didn't let that happen. We therefore propose that the paragraph in Article 17(4) be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u208	Thank you, Vice President. Social Democrats will reject this amendment because we care for our people, care for our citizens and citizens, members of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities. The argument is also wrong; it has no connection between Italy and Hungary. It is the fact that this consensus is given by the self-governing national communities as a subject of Slovenian domestic law. And this is to maintain the regime that has been in place since the independence of the local government or the municipal system, and the self-government of the national community has given their consent to toponomastics. We all know how important toponomastics is. Whenever certain political forces touch and strive to reduce the rights of Slovenian national communities in toponomastics, we know how our policy reacts. The last time we adopted the amendment of Comrade Battelli, we arranged it, we kept it, nothing new, we kept the regulation so far. Reducing this regime would constitute an infringement of guaranteed and refugee constitutional rights, which would mean lowering the standards of protection of the national community. That is why I also call on colleagues from government parties to reject these amendments and vote on the law as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u209	Thank you. Member Roberto Battelli has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Mrs. Pozonac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. For 28 years, we had a way of always understandingly agreeing on geographical names. There is a malicious explanation that Italy and Hungary have nothing to look for. Of course you don't. Nationalities would vote and propose and give their consent, not the neighbouring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u211	Thank you. Can we close? I am opening a reopening round for discussion in conjunction with the amendment to Article 17. Drafting member group of the Slovenian National Party. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u212	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. See if this has already been arranged, why there has been a change of law at all. That's not true. We are fighting for the rights of the Slovenians, in Slovenia we will name our streets and we will not allow others to design them, as Slovenians should not do abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u214	The Republic of Slovenia applies the equality of all citizens and citizens, regardless of race, nationality, religion and sexual orientation. For this reason, citizens and citizens, members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, members of the two indigenous national communities to which Slovenia, and even before Yugoslavia, provided all appropriate protection, including internationally verified and summarized in our basic constitutional charter. Any deviation from the rights acquired and exercised so far is a derogation from the promises we have made and may be a major problem due to a slightity. For this reason again, including colleague Barovic, the information that members of the Italian national community are our citizens. They are not citizens of the Republic of Italy, nor of the Republic of Hungary. They are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u215	Thank you. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I would say that members of the Italian National Community in Slovenia are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and also citizens of the Republic of Italy. They have dual citizenship, so this is not the place to be. It was said that any deviation from the promise, and I don't know what would trigger it, I don't know what. There have been derogations from the special marketing statute in Cyprus. In Slovenia, the Italian Community, contrary to the provisions of this Statute, extended the bilingual area. And in this enlarged bilingual area, of course, the Italian community will now determine which names should be there and which names should not be. Let's look and figure out and have the same vats for everyone. Moreover, if we compare what our people can do on the other side and what the Italian and Hungarian minorities can do on our side, we cannot compare at all. The indisputable fact is that we should have opened these cases in the European Court of Justice a long time ago. The issue of double electoral rights will also need to be raised. Why must all have certain predominances, and Slovenians in their own country should not say anything and should not make their own decisions if no group says yes, let us allow you to use it. And if anyone says no, and I don't like it for that reason and that reason, we can't accept it. It just doesn't work. The lowering of standards began shortly after the adoption of this special marketing statute. Shortly after that, the Kori municipality, which, because of the then power of the Communist Party in Slovenia, for showing itself well in front of Italy, always allowed the Italian minority a special right. She allowed them to enter the press circles without education, without anything. Please! Let's stop this once. If we are equal in Europe, let us be equal in Europe and then let us also be equal at home and have some pride and not allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u217	Thank you. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I have three documents before me, all of which are in Article 17. First of all, I'm having a little bit of business trouble figuring out what's gonna happen now. As for this amendment, which is under discussion, I am not exactly impressed with it, at least in this way. Nevertheless, I would point out to my colleagues that in those municipalities where the minority is in a distinct minority and there is also a veto on the municipal decree, and if it happens that the requirement may be exaggerated with regard to the name of settlements, streets and buildings, that there may be a misunderstanding between the saints and later among the inhabitants. And the way I think that Mrs Pozsonec described him correctly that there have always been agreements was no problem. And that's a new level because it's a consensus. We know what agreement is that it can cause problems in some congregations. Just like that, it seems to us that three congregations, where they have a majority in the municipal world, are members of Hungarian nationality. And there's no problem, but there's a vote without that provision in the law. One is a congregation where this is different. He can be a problem in such congregations. I would like to draw your attention to this and, unfortunately, I will vote in favour of this amendment, although I do not like this whole process through the adoption of this law because you know that I am not in favour of any violent means of solving such very sensitive problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u219	Thank you, too. Member Roberto Battelli has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Mrs. Marika, the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u220	Mr. Juban, we should know that we have been in agreement for 28 years. Look at the little statutes, because you're a mayor, so much you have to be and you're elected in that area, then you don't interpret otherwise than it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u221	Thank you. And I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Respectable. Minority rights in Slovenia are good for both Italian and Hungarian national minorities. This can be found by anyone who drives through Slovenia or sometimes turns on television. But look, the Slovenians in Italy don't even have 10% of these rights. Despite the fact that the legislation was passed only last year, it is not in force and it is an eternal struggle. Even on President Napolitan's official visit, we had a chance to hear and see how he looked for us. The Italians never justified the war killings they had committed in Slovenia. Never. And they never will. And if we look at a little history. Read Samuel Proel's book. In particular, I would recommend this to some who consider themselves Slovenians, and you are not. Deleted identity of the Slovenians. At that time, the dead also began to change their surnames, and today we agree that someone will decide whether or not we can name the street in one way or another. If you don't accept this amendment, then you're confirming that we're a nation of servants, and that's probably what we're gonna do. Because we are who we are. I'm a man of the cloth. It's a common twat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u223	Thank you. Since I see that there is still a desire for debate and that we also have a procedural proposal, I give the floor to Mr Tank for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u224	Thank you very much. In view of the very diametrically opposed debate on the handling of this amendment, I propose that, after the vote has been concluded, you put to the vote the proposal to postpone the decision on this law and the amendment to the next regular meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u225	Thank you. And I'm asking who else wants a word? We're reopening procedure. Here you go. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. We are discussing things that are written as a right of the Italian and Hungarian minorities in the Slovenian Constitution. The Slovenian Constitution regulates domestic law and regulates rights. And it is now impossible from the point of view of the application of the Slovenian Constitution to compare matters and challenge them because some are determined or some rights are not respected in other countries. Minority rights are not linked to reciprocity. And it is right that they are not bound to reciprocity. We have a chance to handle this. And it is sad to hear at the moment when we have adopted the European Constitution when we talk about European citizenship, when we have to open ourselves up to other citizens from the European Union to recognise the same rights as we have in this country, to deny rights to our fellow citizens who are Hungarian or Italian nationals, and we believe that only Slovenians and Slovenes live in this country. No, no, no. There are also members of minorities, constitutionally recognised minorities, and other national communities. Foreigners also live. It makes no sense, therefore, that you claim certain things that you cannot even statistically prove. Go take a look at the data of the Statistical Office of Slovenia and see what kind of picture we have in Slovenia. We are talking about demographics, we are talking about population image and politics, and we are talking about how everyone will have to have proof that he is a pure Slovenian. For me, such a debate is a deplorable excuse, the consensus takes into account the agreement, because talking on its own does not yet constitute an agreement. The agreement is also bound by consensus. And I don't know if, until now, in environments where there's a bilingual area, they haven't agreed on names. That doesn't make any sense what we're doing right now. To question something that is a constitutional category. We have a bilingual area and the equality of two languages in this area is enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u228	I am not surprised by the fact that the Slovenian National Party insists on this position. This is her right and her mission as well. But I'm surprised to hear a few of my colleagues, Juban, talking about municipal councils where the majority and minority ratios are supposed to be. Always, colleague Juban, from time to time, I repeat, the previous arrangements of the municipal system, when we had three municipal assemblies, a congregation of social work, a social political assembly and a congregation of local communities, the self-government national community acted as the fourth assembly and each time agreed to name or rename streets and markets in the national mixed area. When we changed the system, we introduced a system of local self-government with municipal councils. This function remains and is transferred to decision-making in the municipal council through elected representatives of the national communities. They are obliged to deliver this opinion. Every time it clearly demands, as colleague Potara said, this requires a deal and has always found an agreement. Thus, the street, market or road has never been named or renamed in contravention of this agreement. It is about preserving this instrument, because the national community is part of the identity of the place, including the names being part of this cultural identity of the place, so it is necessary to reach consensus on such interventions. I am simply reminding you that any change in this means a derogation from the practice and legal arrangements that have been in force so far and which I hope will continue to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u229	Thank you, too. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I imagined that these things had already been resolved within the committee and also within the concerned parental working body, where certain discussions were of sufficient weight and also of sufficient tumult that a quality decision could finally be made. In the preceding phase, I feel that the solution is no need to be ashamed, not to be afraid of any special complications in these appointments. I took the floor more because I wanted to know what would happen to the proposal made by my colleague Tanka, if only we needed to postpone the vote because we have two diametrically opposite positions. This seems extremely unusual to me because Parliament is often faced with this situation that we have diametrically opposite views. And then it's my impression that, I'll say, gentlemen of the SDS can't wait for them to push us to vote, but if we still have, I don't know how. That is why I think this argument for a postponement is worth all the attention, but, I will say, for so sensitive as to the proposals made by parliamentarians, which do not belong to its work circle, is quite unusual and unusual.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u231	Thank you. Member Roberto Battelli has the word, and then I'm opening a new application circuit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u232	It's an acquired right. It is a matter of respect for the arrangements that have been in force so far and of respect for the fundamental documents on which Slovenian statehood is based. I don't know what this has to do with being a slave. It is clear to us that if this amendment, if the solution proposed by us in the third reading, is rejected, we will certainly become absolute servants where we are at home. We Italians are home to Cyprus, Isola and Pirano long before any modern state creation, including Italy, was created. We were mostly in the middle of the '50s. And these people who lived there until the mid-50s were not guilty of anything. And nothing has been proved to them, and no proceedings have been initiated against them. About why they went away, we could talk a long time. But that's not what this is about. It is about whether we will also respect international agreements. Since there is no number, then there must be other mechanisms that allow at least codecision on certain things. And without consent, there will be no codecision. It will start at this point and we will continue to go on to all other mechanisms, including special seats, both in municipal councils and in this Parliament or tomorrow in a regional world, or whatever. It's up to you. We, if the legal right that now exists is denied, will know that we are not wanted here. We'll know that. Indeed, not as we know it now, but by changing legislation in a way that we will be given to know. And these lies that spread so rudely and without any basis, without anyone explaining that this is not the case, and this is a disgrace to Parliament, especially if it falls on them. A third of Furlania-Julia landscape will be bilingual tomorrow. A third.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u233	Thank you. And also the last discusser from this round, MEP Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, referred to as Lipa, we will support the amendment. However, not because of the explanation proposed by the applicant. There's a little explanation, I'll say, inflatable. Not the country of Italy, nor the state of Hungary by law, have any influence, but the citizens of these countries, organised in a certain community, in this country have the opportunity to influence how a street or market will be named in those parts where they have their minority. But when you point out Slovenians and Slovenes like that, even asbestos patients are Slovenians and Slovenians, there was no serious hearing for them. Slovenia is an independent country and people in this country and the National Assembly have the right to determine the names of streets, markets and anything else in this country. It's reckless to allow any influence on this. Let us ask ourselves if this amendment will not be supported, if it is even possible, in an area where the indigenous Hungarian and Italian nationalities live, to change any street or street or market name without any agreement. What if, for the street, I think, Mr Zagorec is opposed by someone from the Hungarian or Italian indigenous minorities? There's no way to do that. And that's what's unacceptable in this marriage, and that's why we're going to support this amendment. And another guide that guides us in the Group of Unbound Members of Parliament, Lipa, reciprocity. Mutuality is something our neighbouring countries don't want to understand. When Italy has heard harsh words earlier about how the Italians will not be desired, if this amendment is supported, but when the Italians and Hungarians have done the same story in their legislation or at least the same, then let us be mutual. However, for the time being, neither on the Italian side nor on the Hungarian side has any intention of giving any similar rights to the Slovenians living in Italy or Hungary. And it seems to me that there is a great deal of democracy on which we can build relationships. And why Slovenia should always be the first to handle a matter. Why did not the Italian Parliament or the Hungarian Parliament decide on a similar law? And the Slovenians would follow what they did. No, no, no. That's not what's happened. Slovenia has a great minority issue. There must be a number one country in the European Union for respect for minority rights. Do not highlight the minority story by not wanting someone to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party. Don't get your hands on it. That's not true. No one in the place of reason, not in Italy, nor in Hungary, has fallen to propose a similar story in the Hungarian or Italian parliament and would even be supported. The reciprocity, once again, as far as minority issues are concerned, is a great deal of agreement and democracy. That is why we will support the amendment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u235	Thank you. Given the Members' wishes, I am opening a new registration round in conjunction with the amendments to Article 17 proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We've got five scheduled debaters. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Do not prejudge the honesty and honesty of this amendment. Article 5 of the Constitution makes it very clear that the State is concerned about the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and the creation of opportunities for the harmonious, civilisational and cultural development of Slovenia, together with minorities, of course. Another time. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The previous interlocutor said, "There has been no problem so far. There's always been an agreement on naming the streets." Why, then, should we introduce a new concept called consent to marriage? If an agreement has always been reached, then we do not need agreement. Third time. I've had enough of these stories from my colleagues about the great Europe. Let us learn a little that Slovenia has gone to the waiting room for five years shamefully back because of the country of the Republic of Italy and the opentants. Let's remember that one time. We went to the waiting room for five years because of the optants. Were we as equal as we today offer all equality to all? We weren't, colleagues and colleagues. And last but not least, if this amendment is adopted, there will be no harm. After all, you say the deal has always been and will be. But it is an essential difference, thank you, Mr Geza Juban, between the agreement and the agreement. It's a substantial difference. Consent means consistency if there is no agreement between the National Assembly and the Council of State, colleagues and colleagues, because some of you are already four mandates here, you know that the law has not been adopted. And let's please remember and not now tense up and say that we'll be back tomorrow, I don't know, xenophobic, I don't know how nationalistic we're still looking for our rights. [[...]] But when I can name the street in Trieste on Commander Stannet's Street, then I will raise my hand now, this moment, and I will say if Commander Stannet's Street is there, it will be here as it is now in the bill and we are equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u237	Thank you. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u238	Comrade Barovic, we are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we are equally guilty, equally responsible for what Italy has done. I have nothing to do with Italy and its problems when it was a question of our accession to the EU. I am a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and do not have Italian citizenship. But I'm not going to look at you and I'm not going to look at Lip's group, but you split up, but the school is the same. I call on the coalition, when it last agreed and supported the amendment or amendment by Comrade Battelli, to transform the opinion, which has already been a derogation from the regulation so far, into agreement. And at the coalition with the Social Democrats, which we are in the opposition, this is not the issue, because we have supported the amendment at that time and today we oppose and support the regulation so far. The coalition has the task and duty, Comrade Tanka, to remain consistent. If you are consistent with what you have done the last time and are responsible for the constitutional situation of the national communities, you will, of course, today reject this amendment, which deviates from this position and confirms the solution as it was last adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u239	Thank you. Member Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u240	I don't know if this is a debate, Mr Vice President. Now I speak for myself, but I have earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, but Mrs Possonec has also spoken, Aurelio Juri has now spoken for the third time and I do not know exactly what is going on. Anyway, if you'll allow me a word, I'll add it to the arguments I've used so far. First of all, the amendment, which was adopted by 49 votes for the last time, is an editorial amendment and also the rejection of this amendment by my colleagues here. They cheat and do not know that all these mechanisms are therefore articulated, and we know that they are not, but we know that they are effective. However, since the will of the majority was then established to overcome the objective handicap of numbers. A condition for the extension of Yugoslavia's sovereignty at that time over former zone B of the free market territory was the adoption of the special statute annexed to it. When this London Memorandum was signed, virtually all Italians left and could not be implemented. It could not be implemented after adoption. When it comes to visual bilinguality and street names and so on, the relevant number, at least a quarter, is nowhere to be found, since the mid-50s this is nowhere on the coast. What expansion of national mixed areas, what expansion? The national mixed area may be a mile from the coast. That's the least they had at the time, I don't know who, because no one knows, is the least they could have invented. So there is even a difference within the same congregation, or within all three congregations. It's up to you to decide. You will now decide to delete the already existing legal right, knowing how it is to prepare staff for the exercise of bilingualism, which should be Slovenia's constitutional obligation, to know how it is to exercise these rights, which are not exercised. This is noted by all, we find, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by the Council of Europe and so on. Let us continue to listen to these trumpets and we will go without knowing what Slovenia is, but in fact it is about beating the rights of minorities already acquired, who do not even have a demographic future anymore. That's what you're gonna do. So much heroic and Slovenian will be in this!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Juri was very busy and said many things, but he forgets that in 1954 80% of the market territory was inhabited by 75 to 100% Slovenian life and only in less than 10% or in the strict center of Trieste, less than 10% of Slovenes were inhabited. Today there is no spirit or hearing about it. Not even bilingual inscriptions all over Trieste. Here and there it is. If so, then let Italy take away the consent of the Slovenians. Oh, my God, I was wrong, because we don't even have the Slovenians' consent there. It may be good to continue to give our consent, Mr Yuri, to General Chad of JLA, but neither is JLA any longer to give their consent. When Comrade Battelli said it was a claim. What about the rights of the Slovenian people? More than 170,000 Slovenians were after II. The world's military "shankano" to Italy. And of these 170,000 Slovenians today, maybe 17,000 there, all the rest of you are Italian, because the distribution system is still going on today and you don't have to work here, I don't know, I don't know, and I don't agree to the threats that my colleague Battelli was saying, but what happens if he doesn't. What kind of threats are these, Madonna Santa? Stop it, there's no more II. World War II. There were 580 Italian war criminals in Slovenia, of which 160 were still alive today, and none of them was punished, of course following the commission of the Communist Party, which did not allow this because of certain masses they had among themselves. As for the settlement of the Italians in Slovenia, however, it must be noted that Italy and Italy have become after 1860 when Garibaldi brought the small Italian states together into the common country. And until then, about 10% of the life was spoken in Italian, so don't say you were Italian here. I don't know, you were Venetians, I don't know, whatever. But those who have left have left at the wishes of President De Gasperi at the time. Airplanes were divided to opt with Italy to go to Italy, so they are called optanti, not esulas, as you and the ignorant usually call them, some unknown Slovenian journalists call them. Furlania's endgame will now be bilingual. Of course it will. It's about time. She was also bilingual until 1860 when she was still part of the imperial-king monarchy. After the liberals voted that they preferred to go under Garibaldi, who had promised them no right, of course they regretted it and had been gone ever since. That's what you're saying. It's moving on. Of course, it goes on, only to achieve the standard both minorities have in Slovenia, and then we will talk about additional ratings.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At this point, I am not burdened, nor am I interested in how this is arranged in Italy, Hungary or elsewhere. I wouldn't mind if I didn't hear some performances here today, by those who go in extremes. I would like to see whether I expect a definition, whatever it may be, will not be or will never be used. It is true that so far there have been no such problems, and I hope that they will not be, however written down, but I speak again. My friend Yuri, if it were what you introduced us to, I'd be right behind it. To come an initiative to discuss it, to reach a consensus and thus to record and vote. And not to use any side of the vote and not to use any side of the veto. That's the kind of solution I'm for. In the end, no one can stop me from warning you about this, and even the last time this solution was adopted, I was not angry, but I felt the need to warn you that we are aware of what we are taking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u245	Thank you. I can still see the hands, so I am reopening my application for debate. Here you go, Mrs. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. The last time we voted an amendment here in the National Assembly, it seemed problematic to me. Look, we have to look at the whole marriage. We have before us a new law on the identification of areas and the designation and labelling of settlements, streets and buildings. So far we've actually had, I think it was a rule book. And this amendment speaks only of establishing the name of the settlement. This is about changing the name of the settlement or a new settlement that will be named. And it is certainly necessary to look at other articles in the law, why we are talking about a new law or in this new law we want all settlements in Slovenia to have every name. What has been repeated so far. That's what the law says. And this matter needs to be rectified. This new law also defines the procedure set out in Articles 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, and Article 16 refers to the preliminary consultation to be carried out by the local community in a settlement where it will change the area or where it will be necessary to change the name on the basis of this law. And what we completed last time with the amendment is, at least in my opinion, in a kind of disharmony, if I don't say otherwise, about the desire to see what the outcome of this amendment would be. In view of the fact that the law says fairly democratically, or defines who is involved in this process. At that very final stage, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the competent self-government national community before taking a decision at a meeting of the municipal council. I don't think that goes together. It is said that everything will be done on the ground, including the Commission, the inhabitants will cooperate, at the end when the name is already chosen, but it must also cooperate or obtain the views of the working body of the Government referred to in Article 10(3) of this Law, it is said that local self-government, that body must also obtain the opinion of the working body of the Government. That's because you wouldn't double-cross your name. Once again, I've had my doubts about it the last time, and I certainly don't see any reason for it to be in this marriage. Not that it is unnecessary, it does not go along with the other provisions of the law, but at the very least, I want to say that in doing so, minorities, either Hungarian or Italian national communities, will be deprived of anything. I don't mean that with what I just said. I was trying to say that marriage should be read in full. If you fully review all these articles, which define it, in fact, there is a substantial or all-democratic nature in deciding on a name. Everyone will be involved in this process.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u248	The last time we supported the amendment, Comrade Battelli, is a coalition, and the government is behind it. There's been a deal. This means that even according to the Government's assessment, the law was consistent. If we accept this amendment today, it will also be consistent, but it will mean a derogation from practice. Comrade Juban, I will not deal with those who are guided in any way by feelings that make it impossible for them to think rationally, but allow for access to the statutes of self-governing national communities. If we look at what the Statutes of the Self-Governmental National Communities and in relation to their role also the municipal statutes, you will see that consensus or veto rights have always been practiced, which means that this has always been prevented from reaching a veto because there has been a prior negotiation and consensus. In Cyprus, for example, we changed several streets. And in this process, on the basis of the initiative of the local community or the fourth community, an appropriate debate shall be held in villages where there is no nationality-mixed area, the self-government community has no say. There's no harm in it. In the town of Koper, Shalari, Croatia, Ankara, where national mixed areas, i.e. bilingual areas, are established under the municipal statute, a self-government national community shall also be included in the coordination, designation or renaming process. And there's always a deal. It's always been like this. It is about keeping such an arrangement today in a new law that regulates other matters relating to street names, settlements and so on. It is not about any new acquisition or new quality in this relationship. It is only to respect what has been formally and in practice practiced so far in the last seventeen years. I would have said from before, from the age of 40 onwards, when the Constitution of the SFRY was adopted at that time. Since the establishment of self-governing national communities, this role has always been respected. We're practically 33 or 34 years old to make it work that way. On you, the coalition is responsible for either maintaining this or turning it in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u249	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I must say that I myself have been on a committee of nationalities in doubt, and after a very long debate where I have advocated a slightly nicer view of this agreement, I decided, in the end, that it is better to repeat the text that is written in the original text of the law. Otherwise, in the old sense, because the law is so old that it speaks of decision - making at congregation meetings in these decrees. And here I would like to remind you that congregational congregations were made up in bilingual areas, in national mixed areas of four congregations. And when the congregations decided on matters relating to the interests and rights of the national community, they decided in all four congregations. To the social policy, to the assembly of the united work, to the congregation of local communities and to the congregation of the national community. If one of the assemblies has not voted on the proposed decision, the decision has not been taken. So it means that, in fact, each of the four congregations, or three in the unmixed areas, had the right to veto in some way. The decision was not taken. When it comes to street names, street names and markets, the Italian Self-Governmental National Community or the Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community had the right to confirm or not. In a way, she had the right to veto. Now, if we read the Constitution, of course, it is written that it is somehow a comprehensive law, a comprehensive act in which members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are to decide by veto. This is because it is a decree regarding the name of streets and markets in a congregation, which may be a decree for the entire congregation, but which is not necessarily a complete national mix. That is why there is a problem here whether I have a problem, too, but after the experiences we have in national mixed areas, today we have listened to the hottest, hottest, most aggressive debates by people who do not even live in the national mixed area, who do not know what the situation is, what the relations within the municipal world between the Italian national community and the other inhabitants of those places are, between the Hungarian national community and the inhabitants of those places. To talk about such situations and such relations would be used in the near future, I think a poet who will have his holiday and holiday for all of us in the near future: Only the shoes belong to the hooves. I think that, as I told Italian Ambassador Marucci Vascon, to come and see what the situation is with us in Izola, in Koper and Piran, as far as relations between the Italian national community and the Slovenian majority people are concerned, so I also say to all those who think that this is perhaps even assimilation by the Italian and Hungarian national communities of our Slovenians. This fear is not because the relationship is becoming more and more different to the damage or let us say in favor of not using the negative term, the Slovenian majority. Therefore, I believe that there is nothing wrong with us having the agreement of the members of both national communities when we decide on the whole community, both Slovenian and Hungarian minority communities or Italian, on important issues. What will be written on the boards, on the streets and on the markets is important to us all. And I must say that I am personally proud to be able to boast that we have bilingualism.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u252	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The thing is, it just looks complicated. If it were just a language question, it was only a question of translation or a search of corresponding ones, then of course it would be very easy to decide because it would not bear any change. Here, however, it is a broader issue, and also on a symbolic level something is happening, and I think that at the beginning of its independence Slovenia has decided that, of course, it will treat ethnic minorities equally or even positive discrimination. I think that spirit should be pursued. What leads me the most in all this debate is that we take or have a relationship with the Hungarian or Italian national minorities rather than the hostage to blackmail their home countries, we call Italy and Hungary. Of course, civilised society must not allow this. I do not allow myself to talk about the reciprocity of relations, that then one really small group of its own citizens, who are also taxpayers, is considered hostage to be able to speak to neighbouring countries. How Slovenians in Italy, Slovenians in Hungary, Slovenians in Austria have their foreign policy, any foreign policy at this time, is but surely we must not allow ourselves to condition our attitude towards our own citizens by how successful we are on the outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not and will not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. Without hesitation from a bit of concern, I will vote in favour of the solution proposed by the Member and Member of the two minorities in the National Assembly. In fact, it is very sad for me to listen to this debate in the year of intercultural dialogue, which Slovenia has also declared in the National Assembly as a priority during the Presidency of the European Union and organises assemblies, festive speeches, including concerts and similar things, while in the practical field things are going on as usual. However, I warn both parties, who have also pointed out that the argument with historical reasons is on slippery ice and that it can only lead to new conflicts that can end very badly, as many have ended and have exceeded the framework within which they have started and will reach the framework within which no one would want to solve them. How Italy or Austria either solved and solves bilingualism or other problems related to the Slovenian National Community, in these countries, is not an honour for these countries, not Slovenia. And we have repeatedly pointed to this in all frameworks and possibilities and so on. I must say that I am very pleased that tomorrow a third of Furlania-Julia landscape will be bilingual if it were earlier, so much better, but that it will be very good now. No solution to the name of streets, places and markets will ever eliminate any sparks and disputes that still occur in many countries today, not only in national mixed areas, especially when some local extremists or others find themselves in such a conflict. And here it is necessary always to have common sense and intelligence to overcome these things. And I believe that they are doing well so far and will also be in advance with the solution as proposed in the law and I support it. I don't believe it, but that's what I'd say. In some ways, I am surprised by the lack of confidence of Slovenian nationalists who believe that co-decision in these matters can stifle Slovenian national beings, even threaten Slovenians and Slovenians and that such a question can push them to the brink. I think the Slovenians are more confident. Now that we have our country, we are open, we communicate with the world, we defend our interests, sometimes more, sometimes less successful. Above all, I think we must be open to maintaining a healthy situation in our communities, cities, markets, villages, whether they are mixed or not. And we do it one way or another. That is why I see no problem and no fear that Slovenian nationalists must protect Slovenians because they think they are Slovenians, I would say, vulnerable, prone to defeat and so on. That's not true. They're quite the opposite. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u255	Please, only Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u256	Dear colleague Jelinčič, at this moment I untie you of any kind of struggle for me. Please! And I'm asking for it on my behalf and for my account. I'll fight all the fights myself, but if I need help, I'll call her, but you won't be the one to call them. I don't believe my colleague and colleague will ever be on Commander Stannet's street in Trieste, even though today we are voting on the SNS amendment. But now I'm speaking metaphorically, metaphorically to my colleague, it's important to me that Commander Stane was there if you understand metaphorically this expression. And I'd write like they once wrote about Chaby's poet, "Chaby you are here." I'd write it on some wall in Trieste if we were on it. We will have to, gentlemen nationalise, fight to keep the streets with similar names and markets in Slovenia, the Pohorski Battalion, Commander Stane and so on. This will be our bigger question than what will be written on the streets of Trieste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u257	Thank you. There is still a desire to discuss, only ladies and gentlemen, those who have already spoken twice, three times or four times would ask that you treat all your colleagues with a little more respect. Otherwise, I will put to the vote a proposal under the Rules of Procedure that everyone may only talk about an individual issue once. If what has happened three times has happened again, I will put this to the vote. I'm reopening my application for debate. I am putting to the vote the proposal referred to in Article 67, paragraph 5, that everyone may speak only once at each point in the third reading. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 40 votes to 13. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 13.]] So in the third reading, we will discuss each other in a way that will only be discussed once. These four guys who signed up, they can't do it anymore. Anyone else who hasn't discussed it yet? Mrs. Possonec, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u258	And once I had an answer to Gezi. [[...]] So I haven't actually talked yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u259	Mrs Possonec, you have spoken twice, and with the next amendment, which is also on the subject of Article 17, you will be able to speak again. As the hands are raised on procedural proposals, I would like to warn you of the following. First, make a suggestion and then explain it. Whoever doesn't do that and says all "sorte" first and then makes a procedural proposal, I'm gonna take away his microphone. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u260	Mr President, I'm going to tell you that I'm going to propose to my parliamentary group that at this point it actually goes from the hall, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u261	Mr Školč, this is not a procedural proposal to put to the vote. That's what you do in your circle. The next one raised his hand for a procedural proposal, Mr Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u262	Mr President, I would recommend that you gather around a little. You have given the four Members your word. Then you put to the vote what they gave us to speak, and you took back the right to speak to those who have already opened to them a procedural procedure for notifying the word. Do you know what you're doing? Please! Gather around!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u263	Mr Friend, I have warned before I put to the vote or opened the possibility of a declaration that we cannot go to such an extent without the consent of other Members. And they didn't give it up. Mr Školč, if you predict obstruction, of course you have the opportunity to predict it, but first to predict it and then explain it. Re-procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The procedural proposal is that those who have been reported before your decision, so we all have the right to speak only once, we have been written, reported, let us speak only once.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u265	Mr. Barovich, you've spoken on this subject a number of times. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u266	Mr President, I propose that you put to the vote to repeal the previous decision adopted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u267	No, it's already been accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u268	No, this has not yet been accepted, Mr President. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u269	Please, let's stop being a child's nursery and do what adults do. I am obliged to give every word that wants a procedural proposal, but I am also obliged to prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen. We have concluded the debate on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 17. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] It was a procedural proposal for a vote. Mr. Tanko, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct my procedural proposal a little bit. I propose that we hold a debate on the next amendment and then stop and postpone it to one of the next meetings before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u271	We can continue with the second amendment because it belongs to the same Article. We have usually also discussed all the amendments relating to each article together. I am opening the debate on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities to Article 17. I'm warning you, everyone just once, that's what we've come up with. I am opening an application for a debate on the amendment of Article 17 of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u272	Thank you very much. We are talking about the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, which says that it is the competent self-government national community to agree through the members of the municipal council of representatives of the national community. This amendment is, of course, the reason for all the debate an hour and a half ago. And I am really interested, colleagues and colleagues, because all representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities argued half an hour ago that all matters had been agreed upon for 28 years. Now I want to know why. And I want an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u273	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u274	Mr President, we will go out and we will certainly make you very happy with this. But we will go out because we cannot agree to be insulted by you as parliamentarians, to tell us how we will formulate sentences, how we will formulate proposals to change the rules during the debate, that when your fellow Member, Mr Tanko, when you give the vote, says not now, then it is permissible when someone else wants to say anything, you take his word. That is, I will say, extremely insulting to the people who have been elected to Parliament. And in this part of the debate, which you are leading completely past the rules that you have changed by the way, unfortunately, we cannot participate. Not because it wouldn't be an important topic, not because a lot of what we've been listening to here would be better if we didn't hear it, but because we can't accept that you're acting here, like you said yourself, as a kindergarten teacher. If you are interested in child - care work, sign up there and let us carry out our work as instructed in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u275	Thank you, I'm sorry you're leaving the hall because I respect and care for the respect of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor. No, he's leaving. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic asked where this right came from. Otherwise, I can't tell him, like, eighty years ago, in those lead times, it was like that. And when we crossed over to the new Slovenia, then the highest authorities gave their word, they named their good intentions, and it says that no rights gained will be reduced. One of the rights acquired is this one. Why so and why through the representatives of the self-governance national community, this simply comes out of the Constitution. It's all written in the Constitution if we knew the Constitution. I also tell you that it was not so bad to listen to those humiliating words that we received here and I don't know why, because that part of the territory is also our country. We're home too. And I don't think it's ever about us. We renamed the streets, so no one in the next street heard about it, we made a nice deal, and everything was just as it had to be. You know, it's not as long as we renamed the streets and we found a way to do it. So it was not so bad to listen to these gentlemen from the Slovenian National Party, as it was that everyone in this Parliament or not everyone, but most in this Parliament is also afraid of the responsibility not to vote something terrible. It wouldn't be horrible, and there'd be nothing wrong with it. Everyone can speak in this beautiful democracy what they want. But Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court must always be able to defend something that is, say, written in the letter of the Constitution. So this amendment, which we have made with Mr Robert, would correct what would be harmful: the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We absolutely will not support this amendment, which builds on that basic one from before. He's just a little more specific. So it will be known who has the main word in national mixed areas. There are no Slovenians in the Hungarian Parliament, as I know them. Or is it different from yesterday? There are no Slovenians in the Italian Parliament either. Or is it different from yesterday? I don't know. It just happened. Now that the government has fallen, it may have fallen because they put the Slovenians in Parliament. I don't know. Even in the provincial administration, there are no Slovenians in there. And by the Constitution, we are all equal. Then let us see that in Slovenia all are equal. But one of them is more equal. This reminds me of a time when one of them was the most equal. And the most equal ones, they've handled these things this way. But the fact is, there's a lot of other things. Also, there is no street on that side of the Hungarian border, for example, Küzmič. But we have Shandor Petty's street on our side. Well, then. But why isn't Küzmic on that side? Because, what is Slovenian, it is necessary to cut. And since the Slovenian National Party does not agree to such a thing and we no longer want to participate in it, we thank you for today's cooperation and we will go out too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u279	Thank you. Procedurally, you have a proposal. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u280	Mr. President. Even in the Group of Members, we do not really agree with limiting the debate. I think it's a house, a house of debate and parliamentaryism. Although we do not agree with Slovenian nationalists, I think they have the right to speak more than once and that is why we also leave and obstruct the meeting at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u281	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment, the second amendment to Article 17? I'm opening a debate. Check-in is on. Mr. Zagorac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As proposed, we will not support the amendment in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, referred to as Lipa, because we had already announced support for one other amendment, which was apparently tabled by an unrealistic group that would not vote on it either. But let's just leave it. My predecessor, too, said that there was no elected Slovenian in the Italian Parliament, at least I know about the two who were elected, but not on the list of a Slovenian party, but on the lists of the Italian party. And at least one of them can claim to have represented, I'll say, at least about the interests of our country. But once again, I would like to highlight one point. The amendment, as proposed by a colleague from a group of ethnic minorities, I would like to say, yes, is acceptable at a time when countries whose minorities are represented will also know and know how to represent reciprocity. Let us make such amendments and such laws, perhaps even hand in hand with these countries, and when this reciprocity is established, it will be easier for you who are advocating this amendment, so for us who are advocating another amendment. I see no reason why Slovenia, as I have said before, would be a step forward because neither Hungary nor Italy are following this direction. Even when we were, and fellow Members of Parliament were with me at the time in Rome visiting the Italian Parliament, and they wanted to see how bilingualness was regulated in Slovenia, we took them across the border, across Koper, Isolo and Piran, they could not believe. They said, but really, that's how you take care of the minority. We said, yes, it seems to us by the Constitution and by law appropriate and we hope that you will do the same in your Parliament. But there's weird things happening all over again. Parliaments are no longer as compact as we are, but they are changing into a half-term and something else. But reciprocity is what we want in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, which should be pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u283	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u284	Thank you very much. For the purpose of the Presidency of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia has worked hard, at least so I have seen that intercultural dialogue is also a priority for its important presidency. Today's debate in this House is certainly not an honor to this decision, nor is it a trip that we can take before the mirror of our common Europe. I would feel bad if Slovenian citizens who are in accordance with the Constitution, our citizens, but Italian or Hungarian nationalities, by their nationalities, were to do as they do or feel like Slovenians in Koroška, Hungary or Italy. If that's the case. I don't want to. I want us to be in positive and bad citizens on the same wave-thought, so I also want this to be decided today. Every Member who gives something to his or her being, to his or her relationship to coexist with other thinkers, or otherwise, to decide with his or her relationship today after voting on these amendments. If we have been genuine in our intention of intercultural dialogue, then it is clear how we must decide today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment is in fact editorial in nature because there were some concerns in government services because it lacked this part of how this consensus was given. This mechanism is provided for in Article 39 of the Law on Local Self-Government. For this reason, we did not feel it necessary to further specify this in order not to put too much pressure on this member. And then we added it. The previous amendment and this amendment are in line with the government. The government also gave an explanation. Why? Because the amendment was a basic amendment, which is now being corrected editorially, adopted by a large majority: 49 votes in favour and 14 against. This has already been consumed and is now being corrected editorially. I am surprised that some are in a position to bring this assembly to the point where they begin to know about everything that has happened on the basis of demagogic slogans and absolute falsehoods. This can happen sometimes, but so often it happens just in determining the existing rights of national communities, because this is not the first time that something like this has happened, and this is probably the reason for a certain reflection on how these things are dealt with here. And now he wants to run away from this by putting the vote down for, I don't know, what better time on justice that has already been legally defined. What kind of signals do you give? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u288	Thank you so much for saying that. For the first time in conjunction with Article 17. I must basically say that I do not agree with my colleague Brenčič, who says that the debate is not proud of the National Assembly. According to my assessment, the part of the debate that was linked to the content, the part of the debate that sought to ensure that Slovenia also pursue equality in the international and domestic environment, was a substantive debate and, of course, a debate that could lead to a step forward under the current law. With this title, of course, I would like to say that, in conjunction with the amendments to Article 17 in the context of the Group of Non-Aligned Members known as Lipa, we will support that amendment which seeks to establish equality on both sides of the border. So what is true for Italians in Slovenia or dual citizens, of course also for Slovenians in Italy. In my opinion or, rather, in my firm belief, this builds up the national identity that we regret at certain times within our country, the Republic of Slovenia, is lacking. To be honest, I do not want to be offensive to any, not the resident or citizen of Italy or Hungary within our country of the Republic of Slovenia, but I would like to point out only that dimension that, through such a debate, which should therefore not be meaningless, there should also be a debate on the rights of Slovenians outside our borders. And once again, from this point of view, I stress that we must not name it or attribute to it the contents of a meaningless debate. But I would also like to highlight the part that hurts me personally, which is the sad part of today’s activities that we have just witnessed. When certain amendments have been proposed, or better said, the amendment's authors leave the plenary session even before the decision on this amendment is taken, and this personally seems unacceptable to parliamentary democracy and unacceptable to the work of the National Assembly for the future. In fact, we can only rely on someone taking advantage of the sent-mail function to the extent that he simply writes an amendment, but when it is necessary to discuss or decide at the very least, he presses his tail between his legs, as instructed by the great gentleman or the current pursuit of the current policy. From this title, of course, I must say that I will not support the amendment to Article 17, under which fellow Member Roberto Battelli and fellow Member Maria Possonec are signed, but in order to pursue the objective that at least as many activities as you direct to the protection of your representatives, or to protect the people you represent in the National Dent as a special category, should be presented in mirror form in Hungary and Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u289	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Brenčič has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Pece, I would like to stress only what I wanted to stress: that it is not proper, not fair, not in accordance with our efforts after intercultural dialogue, that we punish our citizens, who are Italian or Hungarian nationalities, because it is a question of being Slovenians, who are citizens of Austria, Hungary, who are doing badly. It is not right for me to be punished by my citizens who cannot do much to make it any different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u291	Thank you. I've only seen one hand yet, Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u292	I'd like to continue where my colleague Peca ended up. We're talking, and this is repeatedly repeated, about reciprocity. We have always tried, and in the national community also, for positive reciprocity, to show our best practices. We will, of course, launch a bad signal, even for those who owe the same or the best possible solution to provide Slovenian national communities in Italy and elsewhere. In a month, our Maritime Members' Club will visit Furlania-Julia Krajina, where we will meet in all three provinces of the institution of our Slovenian National Community and will also talk to the President of the Illy Region. Of course, we would like to monitor the implementation of the law, the protection, as it happens, not from the assessments given by our colleague Zagorac, but from the assessments of the institutions of the national community - it is very important what they will tell us. We will also hear their fears about the changes that are taking place in Italy, when another policy option that has never been friendly with a minority occurs again, and of course we will also announce how national rights are being realized with us, and we would like to say that there is nothing more formal. That formally there are no steps back, that nothing great is new, that we still suffer for the poor material bases for the realization of these rights, but that, from a legal, formal point of view, positive practices that apply all the time are maintained. This is what we would like to report, not to those who will be able to condition Italy's behaviour tomorrow, the conduct of the country of Furlania-Julia and the municipalities towards the Slovenian Nationality Community, with arguments that they will not fulfil their obligations. So here's my call, not to take some new and big steps forward, if we really can't do that, but to keep this regulation going. No more, no less.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u293	Mr. Pece, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Comrade Aurelio Juri, don't take it as creating a fight or anything like that, I just want to explain, according to my assessment, your misstatement of my content. For the first time, I would like to point out that there is a substantive difference between the treatment of minorities by Slovenia or by Italy and Hungary. Last but not least, we have been proved by the Members present today since 1992. This is to welcome from this place compared to the Italian or Hungarian arrangements. So I would like to open up the dimension that we should not only be satisfied with a step, let us take, in the framework of positive practice for Slovenia, but we must take a step forward to take positive practice, if it is really so very positive, through us or from us even in the context of neighbouring problems. So, we're only trying to achieve equality. But always and only to say that gifts - sorry, I don't want to be offensive when I say gifts, just a parable - are given to someone, but nothing is ever received for this, and to justify this action exclusively through positive practice and what even the recipient of a gift that he never gives us, said to this, if one day he doesn't get a gift, it seems to me personally a little too much. I believe in good neighbourly relations, but I believe in the literal term of that word. So that they are good-neighbourly on both sides, not that only Slovenia gives, gives, gives, and receives nothing for that. And if we take that step forward, so that the Slovenian Parliament too, not least today, if we close our eyes and adopt a decision that is outside the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would be that good signal to preserve the national identity of the Republic of Slovenia and our interests. Hala.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, there's no replica to the replica. Mr Zagorac, Mr Juri has referred to the statements made by Mr Pečet and not to yours. But I can still see the applications. Another deadline for discussion? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Potrata, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support and attach the amendment of the two representatives of the national community to all those dead and sober debaters who believe that all those who are aware of the commitment contained in the basic constitutional charter and in the second paragraph of the third chapter, which states: "The Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and their members will be guaranteed all rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force."to vote on both amendments today. Because the picture of what is actually before us is put in the decision-making process, it will not be more clear or blurry in the next meeting. We are discussing a law that talks about changes and names. It is said that neither the implementation of cross-border cooperation nor the mutual implementation of the provisions do we decide on matters which in any way go beyond the scope of the agreement to name. This is a talk, and I think it is possible to make a decision about these things today, as we say. I am afraid that the postponement of the vote will open up the possibility of explaining the vote at the next meeting and we will again hear voices that do not contribute to good coexistence and intercultural dialogue. I'd rather say that not even a civilized debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u297	Thank you. Anyone else for a debate? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on to an explanation of vote. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just one question. Are we talking about the first amendment to Article 17 or the procedural proposal of Comrade Tank?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u299	On the second amendment to Article 17.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u300	I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u301	There's no other wish. Then I shall put to the vote or give the floor to Tank for the anticipated procedural proposal. That is to say, the proposal, if I understand correctly, is that the vote on the two amendments and on the law be fully transferred to one of the next meetings. You heard the proposal. On behalf of the Members, you may give an explanation or an opinion. Mr Pece, on behalf of the unaffiliated Members of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u302	Thank you very much. So we have really tried to think about what is the real purpose of the proposed procedural proposal by my colleague Tank. I would ask if, in the context of the explanation of vote, for procedural reasons, also on behalf of the SDS Group, those substantive reasons why a decision should be postponed to one of the future meetings. On the basis of my knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I fear that we will not take a step in this regard, given that we have completed the stage of explanation of vote, given that we have completed the phase of the possibility of introducing new amendments and that we have concluded the stage of the debate itself. At this address, we will not be at the next regular meeting or at the next regular meeting, nor will we take a step more substantively closer to the decision that is otherwise before us today. However, I believe that the National Assembly can make a quality, even more qualitative decision if there are no political parties in our presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u303	Thank you. Mr Yuri on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u304	We are opposed to proposing a vote on this. For this reason, and not least, the main argument is exactly what my colleague Batelli was talking about. It was voted the basic amendment of colleague Batelli and colleague of Possonce. Today, of course, there is an editorial correction, as long as we continue with the solution with which the Government agrees. If today comes from the biggest government party to call for a postponement, I don't know what the reasons are or what makes me suspect that there's "something below". And that's not good. The signal we launch only means that we create some unrest within the two national communities, within those people of good will that we have been working towards, and also the governments, to come up with a solution that would preserve the current order, and today, at once, a thought and of course a delay. I don't know what we're gonna get, what we're gonna trade with this, but the signal's bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr Kokalj on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u306	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group: we support the postponement of the vote, but at the same time we propose, regardless of the fact that the debate is already concluded, that in order to avoid inconsistentity or even non-constitutional support for any amendment, any opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service will be obtained. And I even think that it would be necessary to obtain the opinion of the local communities, given that the matter is changing, in the light of what was proposed in the initial phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u307	Thank you. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u308	Thank you, President. The debate has calmed down a little and we can see what this is all about. The legal services of the Government have already said their part, and together with us have produced the amendment adopted in the second reading, and have also produced an amendment which is editorial in nature and which is now to be voted on. That's indisputable. The local communities already have all of these, except for Izola, as defined in the Statute. It would be a problem if there was no longer any legal design for it. In the Statute, what we now accept, all national mixed congregations have this in their statutes, except for Izola, which refers to the law that we are now replacing with it. Because at the time, Mr Kokalj, this is also intended for you, when the statutes were adopted, there was a law in force which provided for the agreement of the qualified national representative on these issues. Unless we adopt this legal provision today, here, all these statutes will remain uncovered by law. It is said that eight municipal statutes on this issue will no longer have legal coverage. That is also why we are talking about a matter that already exists in our own system. But as long as there's a lack of support in marriage, then the statutes will hang. And I would not want a similar discussion as it was here today, then move to all these congregations that have this provision of consent, saying that everyone can remember and say no, that there is no legal cover for such things anymore, and so the statutes need to be amended. And once again, as I say, we will change the statutes on the rights of national communities. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u310	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm sure the National Assembly, in its second reading, decided as it had decided. He decided by a large majority for the text which was adopted in second reading. And I see absolutely no reason, now that one of the Members or the Group of Members has tabled an amendment to an article that has been amended in the second reading, that is true, but for him we have decided by a large majority and I see no reason not to vote on it at today's meeting, on the amendment tabled by this parliamentary group, which has also, by the way, left today's meeting so that we do not decide on the amendment that has been tabled by fellow Members Roberto Battelli and Maria Possonec, and that we finally decide on the law that is properly prepared for the third hearing. Therefore, the parliamentary group appointed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group will oppose the motion to postpone the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u311	Thank you. There is no discussion on the procedural proposal, only the leaders of the parliamentary groups have given their vote. We're voting. We are voting on a procedural proposal to put the vote to the vote. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 19. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving on to the continuation of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. I would like to inform you that the amendment you have received from the Group of Social Democrats to Article 7 has been withdrawn. You probably haven't received the withdrawal on the bench yet, so we only have one amendment to Article 7, namely the SDS and SLS sent groups. I am opening the debate on the amendment to this Article and on the article itself. The application for discussion shall be open. To adopt a procedural proposal that everyone discusses only once, even this point still applies. Mr. Janc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I believe that this amendment to Article 7 will also receive agreement and support in the National Assembly, that finally before us this law, which has been so long drawn both in the Government and in the National Assembly, will find a suitable solution, a consensus between hunters, between owners and between nature, and in the midst of the savages, to finally get it, to finally get into the final reception, to get the first concessions that hunters somehow expect so long. This consensus, which was somehow reached with the amendments at the last session, this amendment only corrects a few things, harmonises. I believe that this effort made by Members, including in cooperation with all the parties in the National Assembly, will, after all, be a part of this, and I believe that this good story has been concluded in the interest of everyone, so that hunting families and hunters can continue to carry out their mission successfully in the forests or with savagery and nature conservation. And this mission, if they've been doing it for 60 years, they should be doing it for the next 20 years. I think it is in the interests of both and others and finally to close this story, which has been going on for four years and it is time for this National Assembly to decide on what we have agreed more or less on in the last vote of the National Assembly. In short, I support and support the entire law to finally be adopted by this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government! The Wildlife and Hunting Act, which was dealt with and adopted 4 years ago, was not implemented primarily because ten constitutional complaints were brought against this law. And this fact was the main obstacle to the fact that no concessions had been tendered. In its decision of November 2006, the Constitutional Court ruled that the law or individual provisions of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting in individual minor segments were in breach of the Constitution and that we are also dealing with a fundamental finding of non-constitutionality. This is because we want the Wildlife and Hunting Act to be organised in accordance with the findings of the Constitutional Court and to create conditions for the tendering and award of concessions. The Constitutional Court has indisputably concluded that, in the second award of concessions, it is impossible to favour existing hunting families and has explicitly stated in its explanation of the decision that, in the second award of concessions, priority should be given to those hunting families whose majority is represented by the owners of the catch or local hunters. And we've already written this in the basic marriage proposal. This amendment, however, takes a step towards the comments of hunters and places the second priority list of interested parties for the second award of concessions on the basis of the hunting families who will receive the concession at the first award. I think it's right that this is the right thing to do. Above all, it seems to me that an important second paragraph of this amendment, which clearly states that the priority order referred to in the preceding paragraph is possible to be applied only by that hunting organisation which has at least 15 members. I think that this avoids all the dilemmas that have been artificially triggered and which have been artificially created - I don't know, probably in circles of hunting or so-called self-called hunting experts of the ecological forum. These dilemmas were artificially that, with such arrangements, the hunters of landowners or local hunters, the hunters who reside in the hunting grounds, were referred to as "fishing feudalists", and such an arrangement as "fevdalisation" of the hunt. Look, this is ridiculous! This is completely and completely ridiculous. I would like to remind the authors of this petition that they represented the core of hunting families established immediately in postwar years, in 1946, 1947, that they represented owners, farmers, owners of agricultural land. And where hunting families make up the majority of local hunters and landowners, there is virtually no mention of any significant problems with hunting grounds management. I am convinced that this amendment is a step in the right direction, that the law will now be able to implement, that concessions will also be awarded as soon as possible. By granting concessions, as well as by increasing the role of local communities and ultimately through this also landowners in the preparation of annual and similar hunting plans and in this context also [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u315	Thank you. Mrs. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I were to now vote on the law as it is now, without this amendment, I would immediately vote in favour. However, when I still have to make a decision on the amendment, I can simply point out that I rejected my signature under the amendment last week when the draft amendment was presented to me. It is also rejected by the DeSUS Group and, as I know, has also been rejected by the NSI Group and does not intend to support the amendment - for other reasons than us. But I want to say that two of the four coalition parties do not intend to support this amendment. The reasons are clear. If NSI, if I understand them correctly, has rejected the signature because it seems to them that the disassociated function of ownership is, we have concerns about the fact that ownership is favoured, even in front of the profession. But that's not the biggest problem. There's a bigger problem when we look at what the amendment says. And the first item says that the hunting organisation which has the advantage has now: "or a larger number of members who own agricultural land and forests in the area of the hunting grounds or" - or through the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language or - "which has a larger number of members with a residence in the area of the hunting grounds." What now applies to the decision: the first part of this sentence or the second part of this sentence? What are the criteria for selection: whether ownership in the area or possibly permanent residence? How will we decide when owners treated as owners in general: will they be owners and will not have permanent residences in the area? They'll be, like, owners from somewhere else, with a place to live somewhere else? Or if hunters with permanent residence in the area are registered, will they not be owners? Again, I ask whether the first part is valid or whether the second part of the sentence is valid, because they are both exclusive, they are not cumulatively meant, then they should be 'in'. If it were cumulative, it should be "in." And that, of course, introduces some dilemmas, some misunderstandings. Perhaps this will be regulated by a concessional act, which we do not know what it will be like. Maybe it's a good opportunity then to favor someone, but we don't want to allow it. Another problem that arises here is that, well, they have now withdrawn their amendment to the amendment by the Social Democracy, which would relativize the role of ownership. We'd support him if he stayed, but there's a problem of crushing hunting organisations. This criterion of the 15 hunters who can establish a hunting organisation is for the current family, which has 150 or 200 or 300 members, a factor that literally encourages this to break down; that we will have one, two, three or even more hunting organisations established from the current one that will compete and favour one, two or three criteria. Those who feel that they have the answers, then we can talk about whether their answers are appropriate. Otherwise, the owners, now playing a little bit, from Ljubljana, may establish a new hunting organisation at my end in Pohorje - owners will be there, permanent residence will be here in Ljubljana. But my hunters from Pohorje will set up a hunting organisation in Crassus, because there will be no room for them there at the Pohorje. We're not gonna back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u317	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u318	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted. In New Slovenia, we believe that this amendment does not substantially correct the law, does not improve it, nor does it change the essence. Amendments as a law shall be written solely in the interest of hunting organisations, without any consent or in order to take into account anywhere, any proposals made by landowners, farmers, non-governmental owners' organisations or farms. In short, I have to say, we're kind of disappointed that there hasn't been any listening to these. I believe that landowners, farmers, are not as lobbyists as hunters. However, I believe they are not so ignorant that they do not know what belongs to them or what we accept by means of this law. If I comment on this amendment, this amendment speaks of the fact that, in fact, in 20 years, it only mentions landowners in some way - the first concession has the advantage of a hunting organisation. After 20 years, owners or those who have a permanent residence may be included in hunting organisations, otherwise they can now, but then they will have the advantage. That's what we think we can change today. Then again, with the next concession, the hunting family has the advantage and so on. In short, we do not see with this amendment, with this law any advantages, or feel that the law is constitutionally controversial and that we will not cooperate or support it as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u319	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u320	Thank you for your word. The amendment tabled by the SDS and the People's Party is totally unnecessary. Such a solution, which has already been adopted in the second reading of this Act in the National Assembly, is appropriate, corrects any shortcomings that the Constitutional Court may have found, as the criterion for selecting the concessionaire - we now have in writing - is the fulfilment of the professional, human and material conditions that ensure the realization of public interest in sustainable wildlife management. I think it is really in everyone's interest to have a savage and nature-controlled way, that this is not just an economic interest, and that this is not the basis for the adoption of the amendment to reach a number of hunting families in Slovenia with 15 members who will fight each other, who will be the one who will receive the concession after 20 years. And believe me, she will lose the most nature and savages in this fight. I hope that, at this time, we are fully aware of the fact that people are also part of this nature and that in Slovenia we are still aware of the responsibilities to natural life and that we do not want to leave them to the momentum that could arise as a result of the establishment of many new hunting organisations with 15 members. Therefore, this amendment only refers to the need for a larger number of members of the hunting family with permanent residence in the hunting grounds or, or a larger number of those who own agricultural land and forests. We miss the attitude towards nature in these criteria, the attitude towards truly maintaining a number of animal species, by which Slovenia is also recognizable. Once again, I stress that this makes the text, or amendment itself, totally unnecessary, because all the dilemmas about the unconstitutionality of the law have been removed. I can say, however, that for the reasons that I have stated that there will be a number of uncontrolled families, this law is very bad and we do not think it is appropriate to accept it if this amendment is adopted. If this amendment is adopted, I can say that the law is not acceptable to us and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u321	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u322	Mr. President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I have heard quite a few hunters today from some colleagues who say that hunting families have 200 to 300 members. I do not know any such hunting family in Slovenia, and I hope that there will never be such a hunting family. Even less so, I expect that we will have private hunting grounds in the area of current hunting families or anyone else. Secondly, I would like to say that the Constitutional Court has issued two judgments on the issue of hunting, the allocation of hunting rights, the award of concessions and so on, one on 11.10.2006 and one on 9.11.2006. To those colleagues who made a point of reasoning and reasoned on the reasons why they would not support this amendment, which the SDS Group and the Slovenian People's Party have proposed to read part 23 of the explanatory note of the Constitutional Court decision 11.10.2006, and the decision of 9.11 does not annul or otherwise interpret in any way, but somewhat more broadly, to analyse that no one should have the right to have priority or that they are all equal. Let me read two lines from the explanation of the Constitutional Court's decision, and you'll see that this amendment even improved this. It reads: "The hunting family, whose majority of the members are owners of land and forests in the hunting zone or whose majority of the members have permanent residence in the area, shall have the advantage of awarding concessions in relation to other hunting families, except for the first award of concessions when the hunting organisation which managed fishing prior to the invitation to tender has the advantage. It follows from this that landowners may hunt on their land under the conditions laid down by law. If landowners are united in the organisational form provided for by the hunting law, they may acquire hunting rights under this form." Ergo! Now I will tell you why even this amendment of ours is better than this explanation of this decision. For one simple reason. In this explanation, point 23 of the decision states "part of the members". Part of it is: there are two or one and a half out of three. But if we said "number", we actually said "those who have permanent residence and land", the total number is 17 to 15, is more, and they will gain this priority right. I can also say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the Group of Members will support this amendment for a simple reason: we will get a law that can and will be implemented now. However, once again, as I said in the second reading, I expect that this law will not be amended so much, it will experience fate as is now the law in force when the hunters waited three years for the award of the concession and that the proposal for the award of the concession will fall twice on the Committee with the economy and once on the government. That the actual Ministry will make timely calls and that the hunters will already be able to carry out, on the basis of the concessions granted at least part of the hunting year this year, on the basis of the concessions granted under this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u323	Thank you. I see a desire to discuss it. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Rezman, you already are. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u324	I don't think it's gonna be true, but it is. That is to say, at each session, we will receive at least once or twice a correctional examination by the Constitutional Court, and this National Assembly in this composition will, in my opinion, be a world recorder, which, following the mandate of the Constitutional Court, will change its decisions, which will only be made by the best faith that it is doing right. And this law is one of the recorders who changes in this way. But look what we are actually doing today when I read this amendment You can, in good faith last week, have voted those two amendments, if you do, we will fix it because the pressure was insignificant, the arguments were that you were convinced that you must do something about it, just so that you can fix it in the third reading. [[...]] But how did you fix this amendment or I'm talking about Article 7. Can you explain to me what it means to have the advantage, in the first point, - landowners, I understand that - but those members or those hunting organisations that have a larger number of permanent residents in the hunting grounds. Look, Mr. Sušnik, I know that hunting is limited to "outside the settlements" that is limited so that the settlements are not in the hunting grounds. Is it for those who have permanent residence in Mashun or at Pohorje that permanent residences have been declared in hunting huts somewhere, and they have priority? There is virtually no permanent residence in the hunting zone. If they wrote, "In the area of the municipalities where the hunting ground is defined..." then one would understand that. But if you're saying that people have to be reported in a hunting area somewhere in the middle of Pohorje, somewhere in the middle of the plains of Prekmurski, then of course explain what it means. Area of Hunting - I have watched maps of all thousands of hunting grounds that are painted in Slovenia, mainly because there have been some misunderstandings. It wasn't true, Mr. Sušnik, a lot of constitutional complaints from hunting families. There were some "spetires" by two, three hunting families from the area of Ormož, which were by a well-known lover - I will not continue - set in motion. In the face of Mr. Sok, you won't guess! And, of course, it stuck for three years, and that's why it came into the coalition contract, where you wrote that the coalition would change the Wildlife and Hunting Act, so that things would change in the direction of favouring the owners of agricultural land and forests, in the direction of rights and so on. But that's right! [[...]] Read the coalition contract, Mrs. Uhanova. I read it to myself, so I know what you wanted. But you obviously failed in three years because you are not completely treated with the same weight as SDS or any other customer. But it doesn't matter. We wouldn't have picked up the phone in the first place. I wouldn't have had a problem with you. I simply think that what was adopted last week is in the spirit of nature-management, with forests, with everything we have already said a hundred times. But it would be a good idea if we didn't move around here. I don't mind that the property of the world is under conditions. In the constitution, it's untouchable and so on. But it cannot be absolute that those who do have it, even through this law, adopt it in a way that no one can control what is national. The game - I hope it will remain state and that this is generally good and that we will all - I am not a hunter - approach to nature, to forests, water and so on. And here's the thing: are we going to agree that this is a viable one? In short, I will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u325	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich misrepresented me. I think the Rules of Procedure allows me to correct it. I never said that hunting families filed constitutional complaints against the marriage. Mr. Anderlich, you've made this up or you've heard me wrong. Secondly, I would just like to say that I believe more and more that some in this National Assembly are not in favour of granting hunting concessions in order to eliminate the found unconstitutionality in the law on game and hunting. This was the position of the group on the right, the group on the left. Apparently, you're fed up with this insubordination when hunting families, when they don't have signed concession contracts, do virtually everything they want on the hunts without being held accountable for anything. Write down, if the law is not passed, write down the responsibility to preserve what is so far. And I also ask, some hunters are present to know then who is to blame for not awarding concessions unless the law is passed, because the adoption of this law is a prerequisite for eliminating the found unconstitutionalities. One year passed in November 2007. There's something else I'd like to say. In this area, we regulate the regime to practically more than 75% of Slovenia, this regulation is extremely problematic. We advocate that this arrangement, which will ensure freedom in the long term, once again, I stress that free access to the good we call forest is not restricted by this free access in any way. At the same time, I am convinced that this hunting law gives owners more rights, but it also represents more obligations for hunting families. And now I see that you are trying to avoid the obligations that the implementation of this hunting law brings, so you are artificially creating dilemmas and you do not want hunting in the Republic of Slovenia to be regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u327	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u328	After a short lecture course, that's all I have to say. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u329	No replicas [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u330	That the mask should have been removed as soon as yesterday, when we voted on Matthew, immediately after midnight. [[...]] But it's simple in this story, and now I see that you really want to "take us thirsty across the water." What's this all about? In the LDS Club, the law, as it is so far, without amendments, we support and we are in favour of the introduction of concessions. You've had three years to do this, but you haven't. This is the moment in the disputed article of the explanation, as reiterated by Mr Weber, and it is in our amendment, "that the criterion in the selection of the concessionaire is the fulfilment of the professional, human and material conditions that ensure the realization of public interest in the sustainable management of game. The conditions shall be laid down by a concession act. In the event that several hunting organisations meet the conditions, the concession shall be awarded to a hunting organisation which provides better conditions for the realization of public interest in the sustainable management of game." If we accept this, then the Constitutional Court will have no objection. This amendment, which you have tabled, is simply to make love as that unconstitutional amendment from the naive bass of the fox of the toothpick, while remaining innocent. What's this all about? We only decide between two issues: whether we will preserve the widest public and social interest, which gives everyone an opportunity or an egotistic interest, which will be the public dispute, who owns the land, who owns the land there. Listen, Maribor, Celje, Kranj, Ljubljana, these three cities probably have five, six thousand hunters for sure. That's what they say. They'll all be out in the country somewhere. The spirit of the hunting law of hundreds of years ago brought together a farmer, a worker, a priest and a lawyer, and it was the real one. And now we've divided the matter, we've been fighting, because three years ago, you made a promise to the owners. And don't fool us now that 350,000 forest owners of Slovenian forests have an interest in being a hunter. If they had it, they could have, because the hunters in Slovenia are only 22,500. Now that we have read in detail what Mr. Joseph refers to, I see that you really want to "drive us thirsty across the water." Why? The Constitutional Decision, which you cited, states in the second sentence, "Article 163(2) of the Environmental Protection Act, third indent and so on." This constitutional decision you have read refers to the Environmental Protection Act, not the hunting law we are talking about. The case is such, however, that the first constitutional decision you have read relates to the law on environmental protection, and the Constitutional Court was still relying on the outstanding section 26 of the law on hunting. In the second decision, which is a month later, the Constitutional Court found that there was no reason to give priority rights to anyone and that Article 26 had been repealed. And that is why it is the most logical and most normal decision not to entangle neither with ownership nor with residence, but to leave the matter as it has been to this day, and we accept this law in its entirety. However, if you want to adopt the law with this disabled amendment, then at the LDS Club we will oppose him, and those who stubbornly press your head through the wall, of course, write down the whole blame for not having the law passed and the concessions not being granted. Take a break, read both constitutional decisions, do not refer to the law on the protection of the environment, but to the one that is there talking about the law on hunting, and it simply states that there is no reason for the second award of the concession after twenty years for anyone to have any priority: not the owner, not the residence, but the one that ensures the widest and best realization of the public interest. And that's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u331	Thank you. Since the hands are still up, I'm reopening the application. Mr. Bajc, since you weren't appointed, it's a report. [[...]] [[talking to each other]] Were you named? [[...]] I didn't hear it. Was he named?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u332	Mr President, my name is Bajc, and Joseph has been my name since 8 March 1949. Perhaps Vitorion Viscali would be more suitable for you, Comrade Jelinčič. I have a replica of my colleague Saiovic when he spoke and commented on my argument to the amendment and who said that the decision of 11.10. demanded that only 163 articles of the Environmental Protection Act be judged, which is not true. This decision also addressed the third indent of Article 5(1) of the Law on Forests, and if you have read B I, the Roman one, the explanation of this decision is: 'The Constitutional Court' - and initiatives and so on - '...the second paragraph of Article 163 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, 'the savages under the rules of hunting are the property of the State' and so on. Here the Constitutional Court has said whose wildlings, and so on, divided or discussed individual decisions in explanation, and I have read only part 23 of this decision. But I also agree with that - and I also mentioned this decision, my colleague Saiovic, when I said that the court was there again - and now I will not go into it as one of my colleagues said that he serves us after the "wars" of the Constitutional Court a task to which we should change individual legislation. Once again, I estimate that, with the amendment adopted by the SDS and the Slovenian People's Party, we will follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court mainly to hunters, to hunting families, not least to owners of agricultural land and forests, of which I am also.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u333	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Juban, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's supposed to be 20 years from now. If it's 20 years old, if there's no one in my pocket. It could happen sooner, there's no security guard anywhere. Second. In point 1, I think that we should at least delete the part that colleague Anderlič pointed out or, "which has a larger number of members with permanent residence in the hunting zone". Remember those who remember the adoption of this legislation, how much there has been talk, how hunters are not allowed in the village and so on, and that settlements are not an integral part of the hunting ground and that perhaps this is not the case. Think about it. Those who say it's mostly farmers' issues. But is it really a question of farmers? Isn't there something else? I know a lot of hunting families that are mostly made up of or are members of farmers and have great problems wanting more and more from urban settlements that are not farmers who are not landowners because they have time, there are many pensioners because hunting families are already too old, let's just say they can handle weapons, that they have money, and I guess I said time. And they pull them by their sleeves, "Come to us," or, "You come to us." They don't have a baby, they don't have people with money, because hunting is money. A 2,000-acre hunting family - do you know how many budgets it collects? 1 to 2 euros per hectare, that is less than 5,000 euros of budget for the hunting family, and from this we are now making a big story of what we have saved landowners if they are landowners. We're talking about farmers, and we're thinking about something else. I'm afraid that's it. But it won't solve everything. I only came by to think about it a little, because you've been working on it for a long time and you've made a lot of efforts with the professional services to think about whether this is okay, as the amendment was written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u335	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u336	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support this amendment. Initially, I have to say that we have been very long coordinated, we have been involved in the drafting of these amendments to the law, and what was adopted the last time in the second reading, I was sure that we would be able to accept these amendments to the law in the third reading and to the well-being of most interested parties. I was at a hunters' meeting a few days ago. Actually, I went a little closer to getting acquainted with this problem. And I must say that I do not agree with the fact that the settlements are exempt, according to my behaviour, that the settlements are exempt from the hunting grounds, but are exempt from the hunting grounds. I agree with that. No hunting family established in Slovenia is completely closed, all are open to people, but hunting grounds are not specific because they were named Ljubljana and larger cities. There, among the hundreds or more, 150 hunters met quite a number of owners of agricultural land and forests, large owners. Those who, after one solution, would have been conquered, including these private hunting grounds, which all these months have been a lot of talk. And he reigns in style among all these hunters and those who are from inhabited places, which are not owners of agricultural or forest areas, and among the smaller and very large owners. So when I explained there, because they took advantage of my presence, I explained the stage of this marriage and what I assumed would happen at today's meeting. Of course, I anticipated that this procedure would run smoothly and that this law would be adopted in the third reading or final form. I must say, there was no indignation, not among owners, great landowners, not among other hunters. Of course, we might prefer to have one thing or another written down a little differently, but there were no significant comments. I am so sure that the proposal of this amendment is to save both those who advocate in one direction and those who advocate or defend in the other, when more advocates of this private property. Of course, I also agree, and also on my part, to urge that in the preparation of various regulations and so on, it also takes care of those owners who live in the mountains and who may also have any euro income from this title. If not the other, at least the fact that it has been fairly reimbursed, the damage that savages occasionally cause. But, as I say, I am committed to finally solving this problem, allowing the government to prepare a good regulation for the award of concessions, the first concessions, for the government to adopt this regulation and for this procedure to finally run once. Before we vote on the whole law, I will give another initiative, which I do not know how much I have already given, on hunting grounds with special purposes or the interests of certain hunting families, to arrange these things there too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, this supplementation of the discussion brings back to the hot field of the known conflict. A conflict which last week seemed to be exceeded and a law could be passed. This supplement actually leads us to where marriage has stood for a good year or more. Parliament must decide at this point between two fairly simple dilemmas or one dilemma whether it will grant these concessions to those, on the basis of, in particular, criteria of public interest or on the basis of ownership criteria, under a 20-year delay. That's what we're talking about. I don't think that goes together. To adopt a law that is said in advance to eat up property with all these things and also to tear it apart in the next 20 years. That's what you want here. As a result, what was said by DeSUS will start to establish new hunting families in stock. For who should run for concession besides these hunting families that we already have? Do you know any hunting families waiting for supplies to enter when concessions begin to be awarded? This provision has a dramatic impact on the situation in hunting. This is not only about the question of who will be and who will be in 20 years' time, but it actually means that everything that has been brought together for many years is going to blow up. This may be necessary, although I doubt it myself, I am not a hunter, nor am I disturbed to become one, but the hunting organisation is not in my way, as it seems, to a lot of people in this House. That is why, gentlemen, it makes sense to reject this supplement, to defend a consistent public interest and to provide compensation to owners in any other way, if you think this is absolutely necessary. In this way, all landowners will also have some of it, not just those who happen to be hunters. For even the criteria should be either owners or residents, do not speak of the extent of these properties. I'm not gonna caricature, but five gardeners can take over three serious farmers. They'll all own it. It doesn't say scale. Things aren't set up here. This supplement, as it is said, favors what the head of the SLS Group said, is a great desire for private fishing in the end. If this is what you want, then it is necessary to put open cards on the table and open amendments, but not to ensure through cross-cutting mechanisms that there will be many conflicts in the room, that there will be many conflicts in the families and in the hunting organisation, and that ultimately there will be savages and all that is connected to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u339	Thank you. If there is no further interest, I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 7. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I apologize, the list is valid, you will get the word, only by the Ministry have I been warned that they wanted to join the debate earlier and I did not notice the hand. So let me give them my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u340	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food agrees with the proposed amendment and also supports this amendment. In our view, the amendment adopted in the second reading does not fully follow the Constitutional Court's decision. Nor does this amendment, which has been tabled in second reading, lay down precise and clear criteria for granting a concession to sustainable wildlife management. There would be difficulties in the implementation of this Article in granting concessions, as there are no objective criteria or criteria for the selection of concessionaires. We therefore support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party. As regards the debate that took place with regard to the consideration of a permanent residence in relation to hunting grounds, I would like to explain that the whole of Slovenia is covered by hunting grounds. That means the settlement, the road is part of the hunting ground. This is not a hunting ground, but it is an integral part of the hunting ground. Your Honor! Sustainable wildlife management is our common and most important objective. The adoption of the novel of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting will help us to be able to grant concessions, as an important part of this novel is to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. And without the novelty of the law, no concessions can be granted. We believe, however, that it is a real time for hunting families and hunting organisations to act in a sustainable manner, that is their basic purpose and we are working to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u341	Thank you, Secretary of State Branki Tom. Now the explanation for the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u342	We will vote against the amendment. I told the introductions why. I see everyone didn't understand, it must have been too demanding, but let me say it again. Firstly, those who condemn us, who are not enthusiastic about this amendment, do not have the right to point at us with a finger, as if we are the ones who prevent the award of concessions and the adoption of law. At the outset, I said that we are in favour of the adoption of the law, but we do not agree with this amendment as it is. And you can't blame the SDS and SLS on that if we think the same way they do. The second thing about hunting areas is that, even if we had left the settlement, my hunting family or hunting family where I am home, ranging from Maribor to Lovrenc, from the top of Pohorje to the valley, there is no problem in recruiting 15 farms and others who have established there, and this is already causing certain problems, because this can mean again, as we have seen many times in the adoption of laws in our Parliament, the ruralisation of our Slovenian country. Everything that's urban, we're gonna try to squeeze out of hunting families, which came out of town, and only those who are gonna be able to get stuck with roots worth, I'd say in that hunting ground. That's why we're not here. And to those gentlemen who have tried to answer my questions again, because you are proposing, answer the questions about how we are going to weight, whether we are going to count the cumulative conditions, whether the larger weight will have the conditions in Part 1 or in Part 1 of Part 1 or will they have a larger number of points when you try to determine who you will give the concession to, those owners who own the land elsewhere, or those who have the seat, would say, in the hunting area and so on. These questions will have to be answered when the concession is due. And now answer before we count it. What the lady has just said is that there are no criteria, these criteria are only more confusing - the criteria proposed in the amendment. And that's what I find out with these questions. If the motioners can't answer, you can help them, from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u343	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u344	Thank you very much. We will not support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. And if this amendment goes "through," then we'll go against the law. I think the amendment is pointless, with the tendency to get as much Slovenian land as possible into private hands over time, hunting grounds and all. Otherwise, you say that the hunting grounds are also streets and roads, so to speak, even this Parliament is a hunting ground, although for something else, although I would say that quite a variety of wildlings are here in this Parliament. So I don't know if this savage is thinking for his own good. I'm afraid not, but in spite of everything we're going to vote against this law, and if you have anything for yourself, vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u345	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u346	Thank you. The Government's position on this amendment was unilateral, as the same findings also apply to this amendment, which the Government supports. There are no clear criteria for awarding concessions, so that if the text or text already adopted in this law, which we are considering today, is to be taken into account when selecting the concessionaire to comply with the professional, human and material conditions, then it seems to me that this is a significantly more qualitative part of the concessional act than if we are talking only about whether he is the owner and whether he has permanent residence in the hunting area. It is a matter of wildlife management, it is also a matter of concern with other natural goods, so a balance must be achieved in nature and it is not enough if you are only the owner of the land or live there, but you must also meet professional, human and material conditions. The text in the present Article 26 is significantly better than it will be if this amendment is adopted. Furthermore, Article 26a states that the conditions laid down in the concession act must include the conditions to be met by the concessionaire. So the government has the opportunity to prescribe in the tendering of concessions what professional criteria, what human resources and what material criteria are those that enable quality hunting management. You will find it more difficult to lay down criteria if you say that the land owner is in the hunting area and you will prescribe what criteria, whether it is a fruit tree, whether it is a field, or whether it is something similar, you will find it more difficult to prescribe these conditions, which should be primarily linked to hunting if we are discussing the award of a fishing concession. I think that this position of the Government is extremely unilaterally displayed and I will not support this amendment because the text of the law already drafted is perfectly correct, and no one has ever found any unconstitutionality of this, because the law must enter into force first, and then, if someone mentions that there is something contrary to the Constitution, it can be tested in the Constitutional Court. I am of the opinion that this text is substantially more correct than the text of the amendment and therefore I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u347	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Right now, if we don't accept the amendment, we have a law that receives majority support in this Chamber. And that's why it needs to be removed. The government was with us even a week ago, and then you supported our amendment with an obvious fig in your pocket. No one objected, no one spoke the way you explain it today. And once again, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we oppose this, we rely on the Constitutional Court's decision, on the decision relating to the law on hunting, ZDlov-1, but we reject, of course, the resistance to the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Forests. A few more illustrations of what this means in practice. In practice, this means that most think that concessions will be awarded in 20 years. A lot of people in this room are talking about so-called Dachav processes. And if I see what's going on, it's possible for someone who's going to be awarded a concession to him to withdraw the concession after six months, and then we'll be distributing the concession under new rules, if not in six months, in 20 years. Then, what can it mean in practice if we attach ourselves to the residence and ownership of the land. It means that, say, theoretically rich individuals or so-sung typhoons or typhoons will buy rural agricultural land so that they can be members of hunting families. Those to whom we now grant a protective and social allowance are said to be, say, and workers will be excluded from the membership of hunting families forever because they will not have the property and it is simple to do so. You also mention the interest of landowners. I am a hunter, a farmer and landowner, and I am far from enjoying this marriage, because then the other 50, who are also members of my hunting family, will not be able to look into my eyes. If you want to promote the interest of farmers, then you must do what I have already said on the committee, make it easy for all 350,000 owners of agricultural land and forests to benefit from the cadastral income. Now, in the pre-election year, it's modern to share various vacations, and do it if you're hoping. 350,000 owners of land and forests in Slovenia write off part of the cadastral income because some are hunting for their hunting grounds, and the wolf is full and the goat is whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u349	Thank you. What interest in self-explanation? The application shall be made for reasons in its own name. Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u350	Thank you very much. I just have something else to tell you that you haven't heard tonight. Say, I have to say that New Slovenia and I are through everything, this law concerns, on the same shore, only thinking is very different. [[...]] New Slovenia is committed to making agriculture out of this hunting law, and I strongly support it, and there are words, and the other is reality. In Slovenia 7,380 trophy deer were shot in 2007, because we have 350,000 forest owners, that is one deer per 47 owners. How will you share it, to whom is the purse, to whom is the right-hand parking lot, to whom is the lot left? In Slovenia it was also shot in the last year 453 trophy deer, which means one deer on 769 forest owners. How are you going to divide that deer? And another comparison, 1045 trophies or one gammas on 333 forest owners. Or, because sometimes after the desert there are swine times, it means one marjasec on 1,370 forest owners. Give me, for God's sake, how do you divide one wild pig into 1,370 owners? But if you want to be liked, let's adopt this law without this amendment, which I don't support, and make it easy on the cadastral income and we win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u351	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u352	Thank you so much for saying that. So I've already made my position clear. However, I came by mainly because I do not accept the thesis that we voted for two amendments in the second reading with a fig in my pocket. We have already made it clear that, for this second amendment to Article 7, which we have adopted, we are voting to open the article and to correct this article, as is the decision of the Constitutional Court on the one hand, and as are the interests of both owners and of the hunting families. So I'm sure this amendment is good, so I'll vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u353	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u354	I wouldn't have answered, but if I hadn't been so sure of my fellow Member, Saiovic, what he's doing for the hunters is the only thing right, it would have been quiet. However, it must be said: in this law, if adopted, 50% of the concessions are awarded to the municipality 50% of the countries. He doesn't get any landowners anywhere. There is nothing we can then prescribe by means of submarital acts that mountain farmers can get something on this account. Not to say that the minimum concession that is set is EUR 500,000 for the whole of Slovenia and 210 for the municipalities know how much to get. In all neighbouring countries hunting is an economic activity, it is a sport, it is a recreation, it is not only a nature protection function. And they also pay the landowner. But not as we exclude him from all rights through this law. Therefore, New Slovenia will abstain from the amendment and will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u355	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u356	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it is not only a matter of hunting, property, but it is primarily a matter of public good: whether we let it flow into different privacy or whether we will keep it as a public good. I am sure that in all those countries - and of course colleagues know this well - where they have decided on the way, that the public well has gone to different property, that people actually have none of it there. And, of course, they also come to us to enjoy nature, forests, hills, meadows, baskets, because they can't eat them at home. This can happen very quickly. This, of course, also limits the spaces of freedom. In Slovenia, which is a small country, they are already limited. Look, we've got about four centimeters of seashore on the residents or something like that. If, of course, these spaces are restricted in any other way, this freedom, which you so like to limit in various ways, will be further reduced all the time since you have ruled. That is why I will vote against this amendment and the law, if the amendment is adopted, and also to come to law. And since that son of a bitch, he's got about five blankets on a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u357	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. First, what I would like to say is that I think that at least the colleagues that we or those who have discussed know how the limits of hunting families are determined, as a rule, along the borders of the cadastral municipalities. And within these cadastral congregations we have hunting and hunting grounds. The hunting grounds are the surfaces of roads, watercourses, settlements and so on. Second. From this debate of some colleagues, especially from the opposition - I begin to think that we have left behind a law such as that which does not allow for the actual award of concessions, because the decision of the Constitutional Court, the latter, has repealed the first paragraph of Article 26 and so on. Thus, it is not possible to grant concessions under the applicable law at this time. What does that mean? We could, but the hunters are acting, I'll say, so we don't do that, we could act illegal, and I don't know what it is, we didn't pay for it. He says it's already happening somewhere. Third thing I'd like to say. There, when we talk about this amendment, we are talking about landowners and hunters who have a permanent residence in the hunting area. Things are coming together. And those who will add more, those who will have a permanent residence and land in 20 years, when most of us will probably only be in eternal hunting, will receive this concession for the second concession or for the management of these hunting grounds. And when it was said, what if there were some of those that would make caves? Yet the other 40, which are still good, will not make a cave within the hunting family to organize and ask and defeat those 15 who make caverns and get concessions. That's why we're going to support this amendment. I counted; some, I said, of the hunters, and those who are here in this National Assembly, will probably be in the eternal hunts when the other concessions are awarded.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u359	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Scholch? Please. It's still Sušnik's turn, then I'll give it back. Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u360	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment because I am convinced that only those hunting families in which the core is represented by local hunters and landowners can successfully manage the fisheries. There is no other formula for successful hunting. This has also been shown in the 60-year history of hunting, where in 430 hunting families are the cores of those who work in hunting, landowners, farmers, local hunters. And this amendment has to be adopted in order not to give God, in 20 years, when a second concession is granted, no hunting zone or hunting ground will be taken over by any self-proclaimed expert group of experts of the LDS environmental forum, because then the entire system of hunting that has been tested, which has produced good results, would actually be broken. I cannot imagine today how the then mayor of a municipality in Gorenjska would react to the fact that in his implementation he practically neglected local hunters and landowners, who today represent the core of these successful hunting families. We want this to be the case in the future, and that's all we've written in this amendment, just what the Constitutional Court demanded, explicitly required the Constitutional Court. However, we have written down because we want the hunting law finally to be implemented because we want the concession to be granted and the legal relations in the field of hunting management to be regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u361	Thank you. Since it is still an interest, I am reopening my application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u362	I will not support the amendment. I think it does show good will, but I think it is quite lacking on the substantive side to actually ensure the exercise of the interests of landowners. I agree that at least what is missing is the criterion of the surface. But what solves the matter is maybe 20 years from now, and I think it's an insurmountable approach. The position of our parliamentary group towards the law is clear, I think it is very distasteful that we are talking about someone else being better-governed than the owner himself. I think this is absolutely inappropriate for the time we live in. But I understand the good lobby of hunting families, and apparently, unfortunately, it's winning, but it's winning, like what we should fix after 60 years and once change this philosophy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u363	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u364	Thank you very much. It is certainly true that the future of the LDS environmental forum depends to a large extent on how we decide on this amendment. And that's certainly not funny. Around the environmental LDS forum, in this case, people who I'm going to say are running away from customers, running away from these different formulations, but are animal biology experts, some are working at biotech colleges and at different institutes, and have seen an opportunity to point out certain problems. If we drive hunting in the direction of privatisation, which brings it, then surely their work will be greatly hampered. But I have come to say again that it will be significantly easier to grant concessions, Mr Bajc, if we do not accept this amendment. The award of concessions depends on the adoption of the law, not on this amendment. This amendment will only force Members and Members to oppose this law in one part, possibly forcing them into constitutional review, possibly even forcing them into a referendum. If this happens, the concession will certainly not be for long and the responsibility is on the side of the People's Party, which has brought someone around.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u365	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u366	Thanks again. Let me once again say that I will not support this amendment, but not out of spite, or because I would like to make a problem, but because some thought tells me that this amendment is not properly assigned. For those of you who have talked about how it will be ensured that the current concessionaires will ensure that there are no problems, I ask you how you put the present concessionaires in second place. So why aren't they in the first place? Why did you put them in the spare line? That's the first question. Secondly, because I did not get the answers to my questions, I spoke with experts from the Ministry of Agriculture and asked what would happen when we had a problem when we had to choose a particular case between those who would have 9 owners and those who would have 9 - pardons, there must be at least 15, 15 of those who had a permanent residence. The answer was that we cannot decide between them because they are equally weighted, the others turn. And if that's really how it's gonna work, then only the concessionaire will come in. Then we got the best cut! Because we didn't know each other among the best decisions, we gave the concession to the one in reserve. And if this one isn't right yet, because maybe the hunting family will split up so much that nothing will ever be left of the old man, then the next-door concessionaire will get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u367	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 23. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We're done deciding on the amendment. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. Explanation of the vote first on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u368	Thank you very much. We will vote against the law in our group. The logical consequence of the stupid amendment, which was voted to give some people what they never had - private hunting grounds, and which would push Slovenia back, somewhere half into the feudal order. I think even those who think how much easier it will be to hunt now, I think they'll be able to hunt only in those eternal hunts with Winnet and his. Because the current owners will not allow them to enter their forests, although you have now made a great, very hard effort to make them "squeak".
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u369	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Maybe just two sentences. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will fully support the proposal for a law. I think that, in the debate so far, I have set out a number of reasons why we will support it. However, this law may not have regulated the hunting grounds of the border, which are already less than 2,000 hectares at the moment, because we said that the fishing grounds are the minimum that are being established to be 2,000 hectares. I think my colleague Preseknik also mentioned something about the so-called state-run fishing grounds. There will probably be some things that need to be settled here in the further implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u371	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. We won't support the law. However, I would like to draw attention to another important fact that we have somehow overlooked in our discussions so far. The fact is that we have only around 20% of the state-owned forests in Slovenia, and this percentage will continue to decline according to denationalisation procedures. So we are talking about whether we can have 85%, or 90%, of private-owned areas in Slovenia. And the adoption of this law with this amendment is just a step towards being accepted by the landowner with a rifle in his hand and saying, "This is my hunting ground. Sorry, you don't have anything to look for here." And where is our public interest? Where's free access to the forest? I hope we are aware that this will certainly happen to us tomorrow. That is why, and of course, we will vote against this law in the Group of Social Democrats. At the same time, we believe that it is possible to conclude concession contracts after the current law. The issue of the division of concessions needs to be settled in a different way than this moment has been regulated, but the award itself does not seem to be at issue to us either under this law and you can do so if the law is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u373	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u374	Thank you very much. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will completely oppose the law and even if we remain alone. As the cultural holiday approaches, perhaps the thought: "The less terrible night was hidden in the black earth when the slaves' days were under the bright sun." And that's what this is all about! We have heard several times in the debate on the hunting law the opinion of a competent Slovenian lawyer, who has called on them to have a different law everywhere in Europe that surrounds us. It's borderline there and it's based on property legislation. I am sure that, as we have already said many times, we will say again: yesterday we have owned forests, today a deer, tomorrow mushrooms, blueberries and free access to the forest. Now, how such singing hunting based on land ownership is arranged only in our neighbours. If I start in the south of Croatia, as much as you do today, the Croats did five years ago. Renters - Slovenians, Italians, Germans, Austrians, consequences after five years. He was hunting with a laser at night, he was hunting with infrared meters, he was shot at by leading pigs, guides by his shirts, and today Croatian hunting grounds are empty, Mr. Drašler, he's going back. Slovenian hunters also fell in the hunting passion in Croatia, by mistake. How is it in Hungary, which seems to have a comparable case with Slovenia? There are hordes of wild pigs and deer, because the stock is unstable, they come to the Slovenian side in Prekmurje and do damage. How's it going in Austria? In Tržič you go to Old Love whenever you want, with camera and on foot. Go to the other side of Ljublje - private property, passage forbidden. As far as the bird is concerned, in the middle of Ljubljana in Tivola you have as many as you want, in neighbouring Italy, where the hunting law based on private property, you see a bird on a plate in a restaurant or "smuggling" under the seat of an Italian hunter who drives it from Slovenia. Why do they buy Slovenian bears in France and Spain? Because they didn't know how to rule, and they destroyed theirs, and they destroyed them years ago. That's what hunting looks like in those systems where it's based on property rights. And the answer to your esteemed fellow Member and mayor, Mr. Sušnik, is your wish and your interest to change from 2004 a good hunting law that has proved successful [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We change it to points and in parts never referred to by the Constitutional Court. [[...]] We won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u375	Thank you. We're voting. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Gulič, I have waited, I have looked around the Hall of the Attendings 60 Members and Members, for the vote 32 votes against 28. [[...]] [[...]] [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll keep you posted. Mr. Gantar informs you there will be no more, it's over. [[...]] Good night and thank you for participating.
