ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Good morning, good afternoon, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! I begin the continuation of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: colleague Roberto Battelli, Jožef Jerovšek, Anton Kokalj, Alojz Posedel and Member Maria Possonec. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Financing, Short-term Procedure. I would like to inform you that we have 5 hours and 10 minutes of discussion for this item. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Before I give the floor to the Minister, allow me to inform you that the Zares Group, within the 18th item of the agenda, interrupts the obstruction in connection with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities. As it is said, the draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With us is Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a license, responsible for local self-government and regional policy. Minister, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members! The proposed amendments are intended to supplement the Law on the financing of municipalities and to take account of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The solutions proposed are based on the interpretation of the importance of the principles of local financial autonomy, Article 142 of the Constitution, Article 138 of the Constitution, Article 2 of the Constitution and the principle of equality as set out in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, as expressed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in explanation of its decision. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the State, with its new law on the financing of municipalities which you have adopted in the National Assembly, has finally fulfilled its duty to equalize the population, regardless of which municipality they live in. In other words, the previous system created unequal treatment, i.e. infringement of the constitutional principle of equality before the law, since the municipalities were not adequately financed in terms of ensuring adequate consumption, i.e. in terms of equal rights to local self-government. And if I sum up paragraph 31 of the decision: "The material situation or social situation of an individual under other special circumstances should not be the basis for a distinction in the exercise of human rights. This means: "that all citizens, regardless of their material position or contribution to the state or municipal budget, have equal rights in the exercise of local self-government and the right to the same extent and quality of services that municipalities must provide to the local population in the performance of their legal duties. It is the enforcement of the requirements of the principle of equality before the law and it is the duty of the State to systematically ensure equality before the law." - summary of the decision of the Constitutional Court. The updated system of funding municipalities therefore ensures that the municipality is connected with income as its own resource, which is proportionate to the tasks of the municipality, which it must provide to its citizens, but also ensures solidarity between municipalities with the aim of equality of citizens, regardless of their material situation and their contribution to the state or municipal budget. The municipalities for the financing of appropriate spending are both subject to a new 54% income, 70% of the individual municipalities according to the revenue collected in their area. If this amount exceeds the appropriate amount of all assets, the surplus shall be added for solidarity settlement. 30% of these funds are intended to compensate for solidarity between municipalities. To those municipalities which do not cover the appropriate expenditure, the State shall grant financial compensation in the amount of the difference to the appropriate consumption. This amendment also terminates the transitional period related to the compensation of the building land in such a way that after the new total compensation of the building land belongs to the municipalities and this compensation represents that real financial resource as the predecessor of the real estate tax, such as the usual practice in the developed Western countries. So this compensation belongs entirely to the congregation. The draft law also introduces environmental benefits related to local economic services, the revenue of municipal budgets to be allocated by the municipality for the actions set out in the national operational programmes in this area. It has been established that the individual municipality is subject to revenue from the duties paid for pollution in its territory. The proposal also implements the participation of municipalities and their associations in the annual determination of the average - average costs for the financing of tasks per capita in the country. The tasks of which the average costs are to be considered shall be determined by law. The law also sets out the purposes and criteria for the allocation and determination of State budget resources for co-financing the investments of municipalities, which is no longer bound by the rules of ministers. The law also lays down some innovations in the area of debt, namely, that the municipality may be fully indebted to 8% of the revenue realised. This amount shall not include the mortgage and the indebtedness of legal persons of public law whose founder is a municipality if the obligor has not issued a guarantee. The municipality may also be additionally indebted, on the basis of a co-financing decision, to the maximum amount of the co-financed investments of the European Union funds for the period until the payment of the funds from the European Union Fund. Your Honor, I suggest you support this amendment of the law, because I'm sure it means extra stone or stone in regulation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the financing of the municipalities. [[...]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law treats the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. Mr Franz Jazbec, Chairman of the Committee, has the floor to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 18th session, on 8.5.2008, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of municipalities, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance, with a proposal to be considered and adopted after the shortening of the procedure. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Hungarian Nationalities of Poland, the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Communities of the Italian Nationality, the opinion of the municipalities of Tišina, Apache, Krško, the Municipality of Koper, the municipalities of Gornji Petrovci and Miklavž in the Dravsko Field, and the letter of the Association of the Slovene municipalities. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 7.4.2008, the President of the National Assembly sent a draft law to the mayors of municipalities and municipalities. The deadline for sending opinions was 7.5.2008. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service specifically pointed out, inter alia, the need for greater clarity of individual terms, which, in order to change the funding system, has been redefined by a provision defining the meaning of the terms. In view of the change in the content of the financial settlement as a result of the introduction of the solidarity settlement, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that its definition should also be amended in such a way as to make the relationship between solidarity and financial compensation clear. In its opinion, the Council of State supported a proposal for a law whose main purpose is to bring certain provisions into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which it assesses as strengthening the role of local self-government or municipalities vis-à-vis the State. According to the State Council, the current concept of financing municipalities is more appropriate and fairer than the previous model, since today there are significantly fewer municipalities dependent on financial compensation. In an additional introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, Minister Ivan Žagar stressed that the proposed amendment to the law follows fully the Constitutional Court’s decision. The solutions proposed are based on an interpretation of the principle of local community financial autonomy and local self-government as social states and as principles of equality before the law. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee moved on to a discussion on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled below. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments were tabled or tabled by Member Bojan Kontič to Articles 6 and 9. In accordance with the first indent of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then consolidated a discussion and a vote on several individual articles of the bill. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of Mr Bojan Kontič to Articles 6 and 9 and adopted the following amendments: Articles 6, 13, 15, 19, 20 and 21. The Committee went on to consider the articles to which no amendments had been tabled; there was no discussion on these articles at the Committee's meeting. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! So we're back on the story or part of the story of local government. If we have heard from some Members days, weeks, 14 days or months ago, as a rule, ruling Members, how is the story of the municipalities, local communities in our country a success story, then we can see that this is not the case. For if the story of the local communities, of all 210, were so successful, it would not be the Constitutional Court, nor the mayors, nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not all the other actors who played in this story, to propose changes, radical changes to that law. This is how we meet the "n-thousand", perhaps for the hundredth time, with a proposal to amend the funding system of municipalities in the country. And why we are meeting with a proposal for changes - because not least before a while ago, everyone has found that the existing system of financing, providing financial resources, is not such that it is in accordance with the Constitution, and what is most important to be able to ensure the interest of the countries of the individual congregation, namely, that city congregation of a larger size or that of a classical small congregation of a smaller size. In short, the National Assembly, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, established local communities. We have all found that from a few ten local communities in 1994 to 210 congregations this year. And together, one more out loud, one more in silence, of course, we recognize that the problem is in providing financial resources. And if we find that the two conditions necessary for the normal establishment of life are not the congregation as an institution, but the people of this congregation, then we can say that the first of these moments is, of course, the performance of the tasks - which tasks, how and why. However, the second moment is, of course, the acquisition of funds to carry out these tasks. And if ever, then we can confirm with certainty today, not only do we find that the system introduced in our country is not satisfactory, or better said, inadequate. Allow me to read for introduction the explanation of the Constitutional Court decision and where the Constitutional Court, not least as a founder or legislator, is sending us. I quote: "But it is the legislator's duty to regulate the system of financing municipalities so that people in municipalities can exercise local self-government. In determining the material basis, the legislator must be governed by Article 142 of the Constitution and the scope of the material basis must be consistent with the tasks to be performed by the municipality within the framework of its work cycle. "So what comes out of the decision cited? For the first time, what the Minister has skillfully avoided, the influence of the legislator, i.e. the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. We are the legislator and our task is to adopt a law in such a form that it will comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. In his introductory explanation, the Minister highlighted the role of Parliament, the National Assembly, in the context of the previous amendment or the existing law and that there was a mistake. Despite the fact that, in practice, all of us 90 know what it looks like for the Minister to draw up a law and usually to be adopted by the National Assembly without discussion or without substantive discussion, without amendment. Regrettably, the constitutional category or the principle of the division of power has been born, and above all the constitutional category that speaks of the separation and independence of the institutions of power within our country. In view of 30 seconds of time, allow me to point out those comments that have arisen within the local communities. One or more of them, but the Municipality of Ljubljana has provided us with seven sets of changes that touch the whole novel. In my opinion, the most important point is their comment. First time. The bill does not specify the municipality's own resources; the level of financial resources does not provide the amount of financial resources needed by the municipalities to finance their tasks; and ultimately, the amount of 54% and the reallocation does not allow for the sustainable development of municipalities. I am sorry that we no longer have time at this point because it would be advisable to listen to negative criticism of the proposal, or I apologize, criticism of the bill before us. We won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Good-bye. Presidents, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment of the Law on Community Financing. Following the adoption of my law on the financing of municipalities, the Constitutional Court decided on 4 October last year that Articles 8, 11, 14, 23 and 38 of the Law on the financing of municipalities are inconsistent with the Constitution. At the same time, neither of these articles was repealed by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also ruled in Article 2 that Articles 12, 13, 21 and 24 of the Law on the Financing of Communities are not inconsistent with the Constitution. Colleagues and colleagues, can you imagine, we have been talking about this for almost a year, and I have never heard from the opposition about a payphone or anywhere in the media, that the Constitutional Court has found that Articles 12, 13, 21 and 24 of the Act are not in violation of the Constitution. Even more. On the part of the opposition, it was heard that the Constitutional Court had rejected the law, that the law was inconsistent, that it had been annulled, that I did not know what had done. So it was all just one big bluff and an untruth. Finally, given that I already have a few kilometres here in the National Assembly and have survived some financial ministers, from Robb forward, when they changed the law in this National Assembly in 1998 - why I am saying that they changed it because I opposed it very badly at the time of those changes - it was found that the municipalities that had administrative units and municipalities or where they had administrative units received 4% in addition to the appropriate consumption. However, those who were in the city’s congregations received 8 percent. The aim of the then proposed candidate, my fellow Member, William Trophynik, was fair, but he was played. Since the share of the funds they received was planned, it was planned to take care of museums, libraries, and so on. All these obligations remained for all the other congregations; it is said to all the local communities we cared for and financed, while some or only these individual congregations collected the money. So it finally came to pass that this injustice had changed for the congregations that were under that financing law. Even more. The main emphasis on amending this law has been on the current law, in terms of the lack of definition of tax resources. However, the Constitutional Court makes it clear that the State by law on the financing of municipalities, line 1, has finally fulfilled its obligation to equalize the population, regardless of which municipality they live in. This is also a constitutional category and a right. And he says this - according to Articles 12 and 13 of the Law on the Financing of Communities, which are two of the most important articles - says that "the applicants claim that in calculating the appropriate consumption of the ZF1 formula does not take sufficient account of the characteristics and needs of individual local communities. The change in the funding system of municipalities in itself does not, of course, constitute an anti-constitutional interference with the constitutionally guaranteed rights." That was decided by the Constitutional Court. And the Minister, with the local self-government team, together with the Ministry of Finance, has prepared, in accordance with the decision, an amendment to those articles referred to by the Constitutional Decision as articles which are inconsistent with the decision of the Constitutional Court. I am confident that, while this change will increase our own resources, we will correct what the Constitutional Court has ordered, yet we will create better conditions, though never at the local level. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The level is not enough, but better than what it was. [[...]] If there had not been a change to the Law on Community Financing, the ZFO-1, we could now talk about the funeral or funeral of many congregations because the former coalition wanted to destroy them by means of a method of financing. Thank God they didn't make it, and this coalition is fixing it to the greatest extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Member Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that municipalities, which are actually incomparable according to size, according to the number of people and not least at the level of development, should be based on a system of local community financing based on financial autonomy, on the provision of sufficient resources to carry out legal tasks, on the provision of additional own and other alternative financial resources, resources, on the promotion of the integration or integration of municipalities, with a view to integrating all development potentials in this area. The proposal that we are considering today is the result of a decision by the Constitutional Court, but it can also be concluded that the proposal does not follow this same decision by the Constitutional Court. As Dr. Stane Vlaj wrote, the expert in this field is quoted as saying: "The proposal for amendments and addition is not or does not wish to study and take into account the full explanation of the decision of the Constitutional Court. If I had done so, I would not have come with such a bad product, which preserves all the weaknesses of the current system and is still fully up to date, the critical comments made on it in the request for a constitutional review and in the explanation of the Constitutional Court decision. For example, on page 7 of the Explanatory Statement, it insists that the percentage of income generated in the preceding year, which belongs entirely to the municipalities, is determined as its own source of funding for municipalities. On the same side, it says that the proposal for a law lays down the criteria for financing appropriate spending. The criteria shall take into account the reference referred to in Article 9, paragraph 5, of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, as a rule of the 9th Rule of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. However, the Council of Europe has been warned that the principle of solidarity with the financially weaker local communities must not burden them with the duty to take care of their work and development first. It should also be pointed out that in Slovenia a number of non-rational municipalities have been established. The end of the quote by Dr. Stannet Vlaj. Local communities must be provided with permanent and permanent financial resources, which must depend largely on their own efforts and the effective exercise of their powers. The solidarity provided by the State through complementary means must ensure an urgent level of rights, rather than a level playing field, which it takes to ensure resources for less efficient local communities. The success of each local community must depend on the quality of the programme and the effectiveness of its implementation, but not on more or less successful lobbying in public authorities with the help of influential party individuals. The State must establish such a system of financing for local self-government, which provides for the highest possible degree of autonomy in deciding on the use of funds in the performance of its tasks. In the Group of Social Democrats we have tabled amendments, which the coalition has rejected; therefore, the story repeats itself, the voting machine works. We will continue to discuss the nonsense of rejecting the amendments when we discuss the amendments tabled in this bill. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of municipalities, which does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision, but which is the reason for the proposed amendments, will not be supported in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	Hello! As has already been said, the same story, the same actors, with the same methods and similar suggestions. As a result, we will not support the law on the financing of municipalities in the LDS. Why? Because, according to our opinion, national centralism does not, in fact, respect the constitutional decision on non-compliance with the Constitution, then article 8 of the law. Now, according to the new third and fourth paragraphs of Article 6, funding sources are identified which still do not comply with the Constitutional Court decision on their own funding resources. Such amendments to the Law on Community Financing are not even in accordance with Article 9 of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which sets out the financial resources of local authorities, including autonomous ones. Under this Article, local authorities are entitled, within the framework of national economic policy, to adequate own financial resources, with which they also have their powers. Contrary to the Council of Europe's views, tax resources, such as the share of income in our case, are still regarded as own tax sources of the municipality. If the Government actually wants to decentralise the government in the right sense, it should allow the municipalities to have a real own resource, where they also determine the amount of tax rates. Therefore, with the shared resources proposed by the Government by this law, we cannot say that they are independent financial resources. By law, the Government has set up funding for municipalities so that in fact the state still decides on the tasks of municipalities and on their financing. This makes the local communities the most subordinate to the country. The repeal of Article 14 of the Law in the proposal also appears as Article 13a, which sets out the extent of the funds available to finance appropriate spending. According to our opinion, anti-urban relations have been established and are detrimental to major municipalities, especially the municipalities. The anti-urban relationship is reflected in Article 13a(2), which reduces income over 15% of the eligible consumption. The proposed formula is also a calculation of the appropriate consumption of anti-urban since it in fact shows that it is detrimental to larger cities and municipalities. This article sets out a formula that does not provide a basis for assessing the real costs incurred in certain environments, but rather gives priority to our assessment of rural areas. It is the transfer of funds from larger municipalities and cities to smaller municipalities, in particular rural municipalities. In doing so, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we do not underestimate or dispute the level of these funds for these rural environments. However, we believe that the government has not done enough to find a suitable way and method of calculation and the level of funding for the city’s municipalities, which, of course, carry out a much wider range of tasks. The government doesn't believe the warnings of the opposition. The government does not believe or respect the opinions of experts. Mr Vladi has already been quoted and one of his thoughts is that in setting the criteria for financing appropriate spending, the Council of Europe has been warned that the principle of solidarity with the financially weaker local communities should not burden them with the duty to take care of their work and development first. The proposed minimum changes to the Community funding system, however, preserve state centralism, which follows the principle: governance and divisions. It continues to be a levelling approach and changes are also not in line with Article 9 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government as regards the local community's own tax resources. Therefore, it is unrealistic to expect the opposition to support such a law, especially because the profession that was not involved in this drafting of legislation has never, of course, confirmed it. In the law, one of the findings is that the Government has in some way indirectly acknowledged that the use of taxis was also inappropriate, illegal, by forming an article such as in this law, in our opinion, the responsibility of Minister Sponik for inappropriate conduct over the previous two years was to be mitigated. Since the law does not, in our opinion, take into account the decision [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Constitutional Court as a whole, because the law does not change the prevailing situation - this is why we will not support the law in LDS. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. However, colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Let me say that in the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the solutions follow the Constitutional Court's decision. The proposed law also implies that municipalities should be provided with financial resources for normal and smooth operation. The law also means more funding for local communities. The law means that an additional EUR 26 million will have to be allocated to the municipalities in 2009. This was clearly said, and the Ministry of Local Self-Government has also drawn up a law following an upgrade, everything that the government has done in this mandate. And I must say that in the New Slovenia Group, we are surprised at the views of some who oppose the fact that all 210 municipalities in Slovenia receive several more funding. No one is disadvantaged in this proposal. And at this stage, when the new financial period 2007-2013 is ahead of us, a new financial perspective, if we want the municipalities to make use of European money and, of course, of the locals urgently need to co-finance certain projects, it is at least understandable that some oppose the adoption of this law. Some object to the congregation’s carrying out legally binding duties. The municipality is concerned about preschool education. 100% care for preschool education - and for this is money! The municipality takes care of primary school education, for material costs - and for this is devoted money. The municipality cares for social security, for the insurance of the unemployed and also for the purpose of money. The municipality is co-financed or fully financed by some who are in a nursing home, so the congregation needs money. Not to mention the areas of investment, the so-called much-needed municipal arrangements, especially in the undeveloped areas of Slovenia, where much still needs to be done in this area. And some of you are opposed to it. We have heard about the deprivation of those living in the urban part of Slovenia. The period 2000-2004 was the period when the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of Mr Bohinc, had a policy or policy towards the municipalities. The municipalities were subject to additional legal tasks, but no financial resources. And in that period, it was a disaster for local communities. And we corrected that in this mandate, we fixed that up for all 210 municipalities in Slovenia, unfortunately, in some cases certain matters had to be settled, given that some of them did not fully spend. We know how the mayor of Ljubljana boasted that the cheapest water is in Ljubljana. Why is it the cheapest water? This is because in other municipalities the citizens financed the construction of the water supply. In Ljubljana, however, there was so much money that the municipality could build a set of infrastructure. And someone can brag about it. On the other hand, we criticize [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The new Law on the Financing of Municipalities has established an equal funding system for all municipalities with the aim of providing citizens with more equal opportunities to meet their common needs and interests in municipalities, while ensuring the proportionality of the tasks of municipalities with funding sources and greater financial autonomy of municipalities in the acquisition and use of funds. The municipality of Ljubljana, the municipalities of Trzin, Šempeter-Vrtojba and the municipality of Log-Dragomer have submitted an application for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the financing of municipalities. The Constitutional Court has decided that Articles 8, 11, 14, 23 and 38 of the Law on the financing of municipalities are inconsistent with the Constitution. On the assessment of the non-compliance of Articles 8 and 14 with the Constitution, the Court held that the legislator must, in determining the material basis for the exercise of local self-government, be based on Article 142 of the Constitution and that the scope of the material basis must be consistent with the tasks to be performed by the municipality in accordance with its work cycle. The Court has concluded that the derogations provided for in Article 8 do not correspond to a stricter definition as set out in Article 142 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court therefore stressed that the legislator must first provide the municipalities with sufficient resources of its own to obtain funds to finance its tasks directly and primarily. The congregation’s own resources are to be in a direct relationship with the congregation. While the Court pointed out that the determination or definition of the extent of the appropriate expenditure is the duty and the right of the State, it pointed out that Article 11 is inconsistent with the Constitution because it does not provide sufficient clear and substantive basis for determining the tasks whose costs are taken into account for the calculation of the average and because it does not explicitly ensure the participation of the municipalities in determining the methodology for its calculation. The assessment that Article 23 is inconsistent with the Constitution was substantiated by the Court’s finding that the criteria for the allocation of investment co-financing resources cannot be left to the executive branch without the basis of the law. By its decision, the Constitutional Court of the legislator undertook to carry out an appropriate assessment between the revenue on the one hand and the expenditure on the other and to provide the applicants with a consistent material basis for carrying out the tasks of appropriate spending. The proposed amendments and the completion of the Law on the Financing of Communities are aimed at aligning the provisions of the Law with the Constitution. The Community funding system should ensure that the municipality has as much linkage as possible with funding resources as it has with its own resources, which are proportionate to the tasks of the municipality, which it must provide to its citizens, but also to solidarity between the municipalities, with the aim of equality of citizens regardless of their material situation and their contribution to the state or municipal budget. The main solutions to the proposed law relate to the direct and primary provision of sufficient large-scale own resources by municipalities to obtain funds to finance appropriate spending. The draft law lays down the criteria for the financing of appropriate spending, which are a measure by law to offset the effects of the unequal distribution of income from income in relation to the cost of carrying out the tasks shown in the calculated appropriate amount of the municipality's funds to finance appropriate spending, which is also affected by a number of factors. It is possible that individual municipalities with income from income, taking into account the solidarity adjustment, will not be able to finance adequate spending and therefore the law regulates financial compensation. The bill follows the findings of the Constitutional Court and also follows the policy we have set ourselves in the field of local self-government in this mandate. We can be justifiably proud of it, because it brings good to all Slovenian people, regardless of where the end of Slovenia is. To talk about our municipalities having no conditions for survival, yet another evidence of an increase in development differences in Slovenia, which the country which highlights in all documents is responsible for reducing or mitigating regional development. And this is also one of the purposes of change. We will support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mr Villa Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities which are subject to today's treatment should be necessary in order to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that as many as five articles of the current Law on the Financing of Municipalities adopted two years ago are not in accordance with the Constitution. The decision of the Constitutional Court, in addition to imposing on the National Assembly, within a period of one year to abolish the findings of non-conformity, allows both the proposer and the National Assembly to reconsider and reconsider the concept of the law and the appropriateness of its solutions for the further development of local self-government. Unfortunately, this opportunity has not been adequately exploited by the proposer, it is the Government, and not by the National Assembly, in view of the way in which the law has been dealt with in the National Assembly. The concept of the law remains fully unchanged, including through proposed amendments and additions, and is based on ambition after the allocation of a certain amount of public funds from the State budget rather than on the ambition of creating financial conditions for the quality and autonomy of further development of local self-government. Instead of overcoming the known shortcomings in local community funding and upgrading the system with new quality, in particular in the area of adequate and sufficient financial resources and strengthening autonomy and accountability in the field of local finance, the concept of both applicable law and its amendments or amendments is being restored in the period before 1998 and developing single municipal public finances for the sustainable consumption guaranteed by the term "appropriate consumption" and the rest of local public spending. There is little concern for the proposers about the established designation and even less about compliance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government. In pursuing its objective of reallocation and division, the proposer is so blinded that he is sacrificing the only autonomous financial source - compensation for the use of the building land and thus makes the situation worse in terms of the autonomy of the local community funding system. Amendments to the law do not provide for any new own financial resource; the designation of the assigned income as the own source of the municipalities is unrealistic and irresponsible. In fact, it is a simple way of calculating the amount of the grant or transfer of the state budget on the basis of a basis called realised income in the past year. Equally inappropriate is the use of the term'solidarity balancing' as the proposed solutions do not excuse it. As in the case of income, it is only a way of calculating the volume of the first financial correction from the State budget, by which it is unsuccessfully trying to cover its dependence on the State budget, which is nothing less than the old law. From the point of view of the allocated income as the main financial resource for the operation of the municipalities, the financial dependence of the municipalities on the state nursery is increasing and is the largest since the implementation of local self-government. Well, not just that. The one-year application of the law has shown for the first time in the history of our local government that the share of municipal resources available, measured by GDP share, has decreased from 5.23% in 2006, to 5.01 GDP in 2007, which is the year of application of the law. The second set of problems that should be addressed by the proposed amendments and amendments to the law raises the issue of co-financing investments, which the Constitutional Court has also assessed as inadequate. Inadequate solutions have been pointed out by some to no avail in the procedure for the adoption of the law two years ago. The proposed additions, which are the subject of today's treatment, actually mean the transfer of some sub-legal solutions to the law, are poor and partly illogical. The third set of amendments, to the extent most extensive, relates to the area of indebtedness, although there is no reason for this in the decision of the Constitutional Court. Most of the proposed amendments do not constitute any changes in relation to applicable legislation and good practice and it would be more appropriate if the bulk of this material were resolved in the amended Public Finance Act, as this is a problem that needs to be addressed in a uniform manner throughout the area of public finances. Also in the light of the chosen procedure for adopting amendments to the proposed law, the placement of this issue is questionable. The only two substantive amendments to the law in the field of indebtedness are also questionable or insufficiently justified, a reduction in the scope of the debt, which cannot be found in the data published by the Ministry of Finance. If I can sum it up. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities do not adequately eliminate non-compliance with the Constitution of the existing Law on the Financing of Municipalities, but, rather, the content of the disputed solution re-enacts and preserves the relationship created by the application of the contested law. This is why we cannot or will not support the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law because it is practical to pursue the policy of reallocation, but not to provide the conditions for the maximum financial autonomy of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much, and so do you. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Law on the Financing of Congregations has always worked on ghosts. This will be the case today, and it is projected to be about five hours more or less similar to what has been heard so far, critics or self - praises regarding the financing of municipalities. Let me tell our DeSUS Group that we will support the law, by the way, to preserve all the evidence we have had so far with regard to local self-government and its funding. But we support the law not because it would be so good, but simply because it has to be supported, so that we do not continue to disagree with our own constitution. The previous marriage was also relatively praiseworthy. There was talk of him bringing more money to the congregations. It was mainly praised by those from smaller congregations or from newly formed congregations who really received something and, of course, praised those parts of the coalition Members and Members who had an interest in it. However, there have been numerous criticisms, including those of the kinds of profession, not only of our political kinds, and this is also one of the fundamental features that we refer to as the drafters of the Dessus Group. Even though it is highly desirable to talk about how these laws and the breakdown of congregations have brought about faster development for individual congregations, we find that this is not enough to increase differences and that we are therefore not on the right footing and that we do not have the right leverage to change it. In order to understand why it is actually going, at least as we believe in our parliamentary group, it is necessary to recall the context of the forecast after the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. This context was set before the conclusion of the coalition contract when it was found that at least one third of the funds were missing from the municipalities. And today, we must find that what we have set ourselves as a goal to replace these missing funds is by no means achieved. Even if some small pieces are received here and there, and some of them are, of course, losing them, we have failed to achieve the stated goal, which is also enshrined in the coalition agreement. First, we have broken down congregations, now we are trying to break Slovenia apart from the landscape maps, but we do not pursue the real, essential causes and essential, necessary tools to prevent what is negative from continuing, and to prevent the possibility of not doing what we are doing now. If I simplify the picro a little bit, the present philosophy of community funding is just that - everyone can do what they can, and everyone spends what someone else gives them. And since the mayors themselves do not give anything to the neighbouring municipality in solidarity principles, there is an arbitrator who arbitrates in such a way as to satisfy his or her interests in particular. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we continue to assess that this law is not good. It is, of course, a correction with regard to what used to be reality. We estimate that there is something really about the fact that we can say that it is a ruralisation of Slovenia. We estimate that it is only a matter of redistribution, we have no incentive to develop in these laws, we are just thinking about how "the more equal" we would spend what one, the other or the third create. And we're also assessing that it's in a certain segment of egalitarianization, but life will stop it, probably with great penalties someday. Slovenia will never be the same as some would have wanted it to be the same at all ends, and it would have been bad if it were. Some developmental and other differences are, of course, objectively given, must be taken into account and addressed in a different way, not by stopping them more successfully. I have therefore listed some of our remaining concerns, and they will remain, despite the fact that we will push the buttons and allow the applicant to put an end to the unconstitutional material which he has caused after he has been scolded by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by colleague Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we understand that the reason for amending the law of the findings of the Constitutional Court in certain articles is, of course, perfectly normal, that the National Assembly as - for me still - and I hope that for you too - the first branch of government in this country is aligned with the unconstitutional content. Secondly, it is true, and this must be acknowledged by all, that the purpose of this law is to provide municipalities with a greater financial share, to begin with, I am speaking very realisticly now, from this point of view, to the analysis that we have prepared and drawn up in the Slovenian National Party. We have a law that very precisely lays down the conditions for the establishment of municipalities, and you know for yourself that the Slovenian National Party has always been one that opposed the increase and increase and increase in the number of municipalities and we have a large number of municipalities that do not meet the legal requirements that have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants or less than 2,000 inhabitants. And without distraction, colleagues and colleagues, we must recognize that if we have 150 municipalities or 210, this is a big difference; and we also know that all municipalities in Slovenia are not developed enough to be self-financed. And if we have more, there is a logical consequence that more money is needed by the funding system to increase the number of municipalities. These are facts, which, according to the Slovenian National Party, is not right for us to invent municipalities, and it is not right for us to then prepare the law - and for all the people who have the right to be well-favoured - so that those who are some who invent them can be financed in this way. That, nice or ugly, is not right. We have some concerns in the Slovenian National Party that I will give you. The first point is the question of community autonomy and the autonomy of financial integrity. This is a big question for the Slovenian National Party, which, in our view, does not fully answer and does not confirm that the municipalities are sufficiently autonomous in shaping the integrity of their own finances. Another problem I want to raise on behalf of the Slovenian National Party is coordination with inflation. Of course, but better yet, to coordinate with real inflation or as I have read or as we have understood in the law, with planned pre-planned inflation. Such a method of coordination; therefore, with the envisaged planned inflation, it is not favourable for the Slovenian National Party. The question we're being asked is quite rhetorical. Whether the municipalities have income - that is, the part they receive - or it is not income, but, at least by the way it comes to municipal budgets, it is a donation or transfer from the country. For between these two expressions is not only a difference in words, but also in content. In the Slovenian National Party we also do not agree that the term'solidarity compensation' is appropriate because the concept of solidarity, and if we go after semantics, is something else than the concept of a donation. Of course, a number of other questions are open, including kindergartens, health insurance, etc. - we won't, I think it's very important that we listen to amendments, colleagues and colleagues today. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I draw attention to everything that will continue to happen in the formation of municipalities, and we all know, in our understanding, that it would be good - especially those colleagues who are mayors, as I am - to provide municipalities with a greater financial share. But this is supposed to be because of development and equality, not because we share money with those individuals and individuals who want the congregation, but because of the "magari" that only has 27 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.5. We have about four hours left to discuss the amendments. In this way, I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Zares Group of Ambassadors. Please, if every debater tells which amendment he is discussing. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four panellists. The first one has the word of Ambassador Villa Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I will talk about the second amendment to Article 6 or the deletion of Article 10. Article 10g of the proposed amendment of the law speaks if I make it very easy to exclude or exclude from the local community's debt quota guarantees for public undertakings and public institutions. This proposed measure, for the first time, this commitment clause, to repeat again, would fall under another law, and there is nothing new in general. It is one of the two substantive amendments that is questionable if this can be done by means of a procedure which has been chosen to comply with a decision of the Constitutional Court but which is not justified. The question is why this deletion. First of all, I would like to point out that the indebtedness of local communities, given this controversial law, which has substantially increased the debt quota, is not at all controversial. From the data published by the Ministry of Finance, the debt in 2007 when this law was in force, I think about €32 million, and the net debt was even lower, and this is far from the global legally permissible. Therefore, there is no reason to reduce or delete these contents. This is said to go into the quota for public companies and public institutions. Apparently it's another problem that we're going to decide whether or not it's hidden. This can be written to anyone, on a particular case of a company, or any institution which is in charge for such or other reasons. The law to write to solve individual problems, especially in order to solve them because they have come in conflict with legal standards, is said to be unacceptable at home. Someone can say that my assumption is speculation, I agree. But this "scheme," under the terms, is the result of an unwarranted change. In particular, the continuation of the text of this solution: "in the event that they have a source to repay". What this means is that, in particular, in an institution whose founder is a municipality, that a third source is provided and because of the debt or negative consequences of an obligation, the property of the local community will not be compromised, whether in the institution or in a public undertaking, but not in the performance of public tasks carried out by the institution or by a public undertaking. Let this be a health care home, where it is highly likely that it will be a utility and that drinking water supply will be compromised because someone is in uncontrolled debt. The inclusion in the quota of the municipality's indebtedness, the level of the guarantees has or has had another problem or other positive effect that the procedures for borrowing have been transparent. And on the basis of these procedures, borrowing in the search for guarantees and consent was not in some way in a domestic debt. Not to discuss it, because I believe that this amendment will not be accepted. The aim of the investment was to draw attention to a problem which could have serious consequences for a wide range of environments and to say that, otherwise, it cannot be said to the public that the changes in the area of debt are not justified by any global movement, since the debt has not increased, far from being allowed by the local community, as is the case with the law in force. That is why we have proposed in our parliamentary group, because we are convinced that this solution is not necessary, that at least, but what is at stake, the way in which such a decision or content is taken after a reduced procedure is said to be unsavoury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. But the word has been given by Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good day to all in the hall. In fact, we have reiterated the amendment already tabled by colleague Kontič at the Committee on Local Self-Government, and I have to say very clearly that I do not understand why this amendment was rejected by the Committee. The first thing I have to say is that the amendment was also agreed by the government representatives because it allows only that the municipality involved in the single treasury account system of the country can, like those municipalities which are not, choose the most advantageous option in the banking market to carry out their investments. Here I have something else to say, although we have not tabled an amendment, but it is strange that in the single European market, where the rules on the free movement of goods and services, people, goods and services are to be observed, our country limits the possibility for municipalities to rent loans even outside the borders of our country. I would like to point out that loans can only be drawn from the municipality at home for investments. I think that this article should also be reviewed and verified by the European Community Commission and asked whether this is legal, whether we speak in accordance with European directives or not. However, the fact is that it is impossible because, in fact, if we restrict the municipalities involved in the state's treasury account system to the possibility of lending only at the treasury, then that means that the municipalities are somehow being driven out of this system. Why? Because if the municipality gets better terms and conditions for lending to another banking institution, it will get out of the treasury system and we simply have a reduced option, I will say some joint management of public money. Of course, since the congregations are not forced to enter this system of things, their decision is free. That is why I think it would be wise for this amendment to now support the coalition, because this way of determining the indebtedness of the congregations is actually very, I will say, not only non-democratic, but even protectionist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. However, Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan's colleague basically summarized and added, of course, the contents to the amendment, which was dealt with on the working body. This amendment was tabled on my mother's working body for the reasons stated above. And in view of the support I have heard on the working body also from the Association of Municipalities and Communities of Slovenia, I was certainly convinced that this was an amendment which was in favour of the local communities, which was in favour of municipalities and that the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development would, of course, give strong attention to local communities and support to this amendment. It happened the other way around. The amendment was rejected, as was the custom in the working body and, of course, also at the meeting of the National Assembly. But I think it is time for us to change the matter, so the Social Democrats have also tabled this amendment back into procedure. Today we are talking again about this amendment, which amends the first paragraph of Article 6, which states that the municipality which is included in the single treasury account system of the State can only be indebted to the administrator of the single treasury account system of the State or to the state budget. This means, of course, that despite the fact that more valuable money can be used on the market, it cannot be used because it is in a single treasury account and is also bound by this article of the law to be in debt within this treasury account or the state budget. This means, of course, that the objective we have set ourselves, to include as many local communities as possible in this treasury account, will not be achieved, because the municipalities will only decide according to the offer they will have. The goal is good, however, because sometimes funds are available for the benefit of the congregations. In doing so, it should be ensured that these funds are subject to favourable conditions, provided that they are no longer more favourable conditions than is possible on the market. That's the point. Of course, any association is full of advantages and weaknesses. And if we want to put the system into effect, then that means we have to have more advantages than weaknesses. The aim of the country is to include as many local communities as possible in this treasure system. And if we were to actually change this matter, and if we added this condition, which says that if the debt conditions are at least as favourable as the other financial institutions offer them, we would be satisfied that the comparative advantages are more than the weaknesses embedded in this system. And since the Rules of Procedure allow us this possibility, I would certainly ask the proposer of this law to also define the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. I don't see any logic in this rejection, automatic rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Member Saiovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye to the Minister, to all your colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am surprised in some way and disappointed that at this point, when we are talking about one of the most important laws that still affects Slovenian municipalities, when we are also talking about the integration of municipalities into the provinces, there are four mayors and only 17, 18 members. Since I come from one of the most certainly in charge of Slovenian municipalities, I can say that I do not regard the law as ideal, but I simply cannot oppose it because some municipalities in Slovenia are pushed against the wall and can almost literally close the door without any changes in this law. The Minister looks at me slightly below my forehead; I will be happy if he responds to certain of my claims, but I come from a municipality where I inherited 5.5 million euros in debt as mayor, 3 million directly due, 2 million long-term debt, and before us a cohesion project estimated at a weak 19 million euros in 2004 and the construction market situation and the time that has elapsed has put the congregation ahead of the fact that if we want to carry out the cohesion project, we surely need 6 million additional funds. And who knows what cohesion means - cohesion means primary water, because there is a secondary water supply running along the primary water, which will spill out at the first dig, and that only on those routes the reconstruction of secondary waters means an additional EUR 6 million costs, then I have to tell you that we have been thinking about whether or not the cohesion project should be cancelled or cancelled. In some ways, we will also draw on the cohesion funds of Slovenia and that, at the age of 40, people will not remain thirsty more than they have done so far, we will go to the project and tackle it, to no one, including financial experts in this country, but we have no idea how to close it down and fund it. I therefore support the amendment to Article 6 proposed by my colleagues from Social Democracy, because in no way do I see any political note, no harm - not for the municipalities, not for the budget, on the contrary, any added value. However, I must say that in principle I would be happy to agree with the amendment to Article 6 proposed by the Parliamentary Group Indeed, if the financing of municipalities in Slovenia were better regulated than it was, I would support it. In a situation where I see my congregation in particular, I cannot support it in any way, and I will not open it, because the debt through a municipal company that will be 100% municipal property, of course, gives us the possibility, through long-term lending, that we will have to close in two years' time and that citizens will benefit from it for the next 50 to 80 years, with some kind of delayed lending, in some way we can only get under the roof. These are real problems from many Slovene municipalities. The community I come from isn't the only one, it's not lonely. Even when I speak with mayors in other municipalities, the view has generally prevailed that the European funds, the Regional Development Fund and the calls for proposals are simply no longer to be reported because we do not have our own resources so that 20, 30% of them are simply collected and put together. This is where I see the problem. I think the Ministry should think about it. Just being in charge of a European cohesion project does not solve everything, because simply in two and a half years with bridging credits you cannot close a story that has such significance for the municipality, requires such a large amount of funding and means solving a problem for 50 to 80 years ahead. We are preparing a rebalancing of the municipal budget. I have to tell you that we've confused everything from the budget, I'd say, superstandard or something more, but it's simply not possible to shrink these things anymore. If they have, say, firefighting companies that are the pillar of civil protection, and when storms appear every week, you have to have fire extinguishers well equipped, if you have vehicles over 20 years old, then the fact that they need to be replaced. See what happens to the kindergarten funding law, what caused this article, that kindergartens for another child are free. In Ljubljana, there are thousands of children with whom they do not know where, in Kranj more than 200, and the country has not given us resources and resources to increase kindergartens and upgrade them. If we have adopted this law and I support it, then financial resources must also be obtained for the new construction and upgrading of kindergartens. I must say that the municipal budgets are also severely affected by inflation. You probably know at the Ministry that we got the municipalities to sign a contract, say, for public enlightenment, which is auctioned at 30% to 40%. Inflation is moving between 6% and 7%, and this morning I signed a forest road maintenance contract that gives us more €35,000 this year than it did in 2007! All fuel costs, all inflation costs have been directly transferred, not least public lighting, to the municipal budget. Not to mention the story of state roads. Of course, the municipalities, which have a special - I will not say why - a privileged position, have taken almost growing roads as state roads, which are more or less successfully maintained by the state. I must say, this moment is not enough. Next problem. Many congregations try to move forward in the area of municipal infrastructure. Some would collect waste separately, others would collect biological waste, and others would increase the investment price of water, sewage and wastewater treatment. But some congregations have been waiting more than half a year for these prices to change. Let me tell you an example from my congregation - we all raise 40,000 euros for the canal together, and it just costs 140,000 euros to maintain and clean the canals. Prices have simply not changed since 2002. And now that we're trying to do something, step forward, we're blocked by the state in pre-election time. Yesterday there was also a good news from the Ministry of Agriculture that calls for co-financing of rural projects had been suspended because something was wrong with the agricultural law that we had just adopted. Simply put, there is not enough money in the municipalities for current matters, let alone for the key investments that law forces us to make. This is undoubtedly the provision of drinking water, the construction of sewerage systems subject to European directives and the construction of central cleaning plants. I think that at the Ministry you should think about allowing municipalities exclusively for these projects to be in debt outside this quota - projects that can be closed below at the appropriate price of municipal infrastructure and projects that are not of a populist pre-election nature, but of a long-term nature, as I have already said, that solve problems for the congregation for half a century. However, I recall one of the discussions at the beginning of this parliamentary term when Minister Žagar correctly answered my question and said that the mayors have political responsibility for the task and for all of this. Congregations in charge of buying beer and sausages and going on similar summer and other occasions should not and cannot only answer politically but must answer criminally or with all their belongings. Things are not serious and also need to be regulated and corrected. I won't oppose the law. For the municipality of which I am mayor, there is simply a better sparrow or sparrow in hand than a pigeon on the roof, but additional resources need to be sought to make the municipalities financially more independent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the two amendments to Article 6? Yeah. I'm opening a new procedure. We have an additional three members. And the first one's got the word "minister." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I'd like, under these two amendments, to make some clarifications. I was also directly challenged now. As regards this first amendment, which relates to the terms of the debt and to the single treasury account. I must say, I repeat what we have already said, we do not oppose it, but the basic idea of a single treasury account is to ensure the most favourable conditions. That way we don't see the reason for this amendment. That's how much I can comment on this amendment. Another thing about borrowing. I can agree that this is actually a matter of the law on public finances. We also expected and also ensured that the entire system of borrowing should be managed in a uniform manner. However, it is precisely what has been exposed, including the implementation of projects in the field of European funds drawback, that is, the funds used from cohesion policy, especially since we have been very open-ended [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] from a new financial perspective, it has also led us, on the basis of individual congregations, to include these provisions in this law. [[...]] That is why I think that a step forward has been taken, as far as facilitating the use of European funds or the realisation of these projects is concerned. With regard to this work, which is related to issues related to the withdrawal from the entire quota of municipal debt. I have to say that this, and with all the changes in the law, was actually the initiative of the municipalities through both associations, and even after the analyses made at the finance ministry, we decided to include this. However, the Office has made it very clear that in this case such duties are not considered to be a quota for municipal debt. This does not mean that the congregation loses control of the matter. There is still a need for and mandatory agreement between the municipality as founders of public enterprises and public institutions. As far as the debt itself is concerned, I also agree that this debt does not mean much debt, as far as the municipalities are concerned, almost nothing. There are, however, individual cases where some of the tasks went through certain frameworks and that is why such a system is, of course, still in place. As far as responsibility is concerned, it is political on the one hand. This one, I'm sure, is checked in every election. And it's the other one, the criminal one, and I agree with that. There are procedures, institutions that have to do their part. I don't have any problems with that myself. After all, I was the mayor myself for ten years. There can't even be this dilemma here, but I can't comment on individual municipalities right now, and we don't even know this situation. As far as the funds of the municipalities are concerned. According to the information we have, this mandate has taken a step forward within the scope of the public financial framework. The system has increased the share of finances there by about one third for municipalities at that time. If you also look at the data on gross product, then it has to be said that the first jump was already in 2005 from the previous four, sixty-six, for example in 2004. I'm talking about direct gross product. Then in 2006 to five, twenty-four and then a slight reduction. This needs to be made very clear that this does not mean a reduction in funds for municipalities, because the share of gross growth product has increased very much in Slovenia and it is only reasonable to compare the comparison of funding in municipalities in relation to the budget. This, however, ensures that growth is sustained according to the data of the Ministry of Finance. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Member Martin Mikolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Member Martin Mikolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thanks again for saying that. Comrade Saiovic, I agree with your very good conclusion that there are so few of us here in the National Assembly in this important marriage. I'm saying the only shame is that you weren't on the board the last time, and you said that there were others who wouldn't obstruct the board. This means how important legislation is to someone. Now for the amendment. With regard to the first amendment, I am convinced that the municipalities will be involved in the single treasury account system of the State in lending mainly because there are supposed to be the most favourable conditions. We have been told this several times clearly. And then it's kind of logical that in this article, somehow, the legislation itself should be so defined that you're there. Because then I do not imagine that in some other financial institutions there will be more favourable loans for local communities. It is the task of those responsible in the treasury account to negotiate in this way. But if I'm being perfectly honest that this holds what we have written, there are a lot of concerns here. But I am sure, given that this is now so defined, that in the future, indeed, those responsible for these matters will be carried out in such a way that both mayors and municipal councilors or the municipality will find that there is indeed the most favourable credit. If not, it will be necessary in this part, and I agree with you, to correct the law if it does not. As far as the second amendment is concerned. I will not support it, given that the current additional Article 10g or the new Article 10g brings certain innovations concerning the indebtedness of so-called public institutions and public companies. As we know, this has now gone into the guarantee quota. Given that the law makes it clear that without the consent of the founders or municipalities, these public institutions or economic companies will not be in charge of a specific project that they wish to carry out with a source of funding or credit, the municipality will have to give its consent. I have always had an opinion on lending, and I have it today. We used to throw it all together in the same basket, saying that the source of repayment of the loan could be very different. And at that source for the possibility of repaying the loan that the municipality actually creates without problems, I don't know why we would be doing certain debt problems. Many times I did not agree that in the same basket we were in charge of building infrastructure, roads, for example, or lending or debt in the area of housing. In the area of dwellings, there is no problem that you will be able to repay the loan, given that through rent we receive this source of repayment. And in this case, as far as public economic services are concerned, I must also say that, at the final stage, if a public undertaking dealing with waste, water and so on is, in fact, committed somehow on the basis of the fact that the source is provided by users. And given that the source is provided by the users, it seems to me that it has really not been right so far or that it is considered to be in the range of municipal debt. But I am also sure, given that before me someone has already discussed the level of indebtedness of the congregations in the past period, we see that this is somehow within normal limits. And with regard to the proposal in the new law of 8% in relation to the amount of appropriate spending for the current year and 8% in terms of the annual amount of payment of annuity and principal, this is one of the very good solutions, given that we are in this new financial perspective, where it is very important how we will spend European money. Therefore, it is also wise and reasonable to give the congregation the opportunity to rent credit in this area. However, if the municipality has not been able to include 8% of the loan in the annual budget over a long period of 20, 25 years, then we can indeed have doubts about the functioning of the municipalities. I am firmly convinced that this investment money is in today's financial envelope, and in particular because of what we have done in these four years, this can be feasible. Nor will we abandon any legacy of paying off certain financial obligations that go beyond some normal limits on the functioning of local communities. So I have to say that I don't support the other amendment. I won't support the first one either, because I don't think it's necessary to bring this into the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let's remember. We're at Article 6 and two amendments. First of all, I will try to say a few words about the amendment that really proposes, which is Article 10. I don't actually see the reasons, either, and I don't see it because we're not all the time, all the discussions on the parental committee, not even hearing the real reasons why the congregation's indebtedness is now limited in some way. This feeling is created, there is no basis, no calculations have been presented to us. Whether there has been a breach of this breadth or the extent of the indebtedness previously guaranteed by law, or whether there are other reasons, we do not really know that. Thus, it seems to us that such a determination is pointless or inappropriate. Therefore, it is self-evidently doubtful whether this is some hiding place for which some borrowers may be hiding with the help of a minister who understands and tries to transfer one part of this responsibility or to re-analyze public companies to cover this situation. Maybe. Since there is no clear answer, I expect that Mr Minister will at least say this, or also say why it was actually necessary. The second amendment, however, is an amendment that proposes something that is, in fact, at least in my opinion, in conditions of a competitive economy, as it is supposed to be in Slovenia, completely self-evident and normal. Why not give the opportunity to find a source of debt not only in the treasury account but in the market to see if they can actually get cheaper money on a vessel? This is logical, I would say, in the economy, in this second part of the economy, not in this economy, which is called a conditional public economy. And here someone has to, until now, have been unable to explain why this should be an emergency. In this way, at least in my opinion, we give some silence to people who manage funds from a treasury account so that in their conduct and work they are not the most rational, they are not focused on the most economically justified moves and create, they create some interest rate for these assets, which could be, if they were taken into account and also compared with the interest rates of banks in this market, but perhaps different. Since we do not know this, it seems to me that this comma and the continuation of the sentence, as proposed, would not have done any harm. It would be possible to check and find out, and perhaps from the treasury account, or those who care for the treasury account would find that something needs to be done with them. For this reason, I feel that this must be supported because, in fact, when I listened to the minister, he did not object either. He said he didn't object to the amendment, but he didn't see the reasons for the change. Now understand!? He does not object if he does not see the reasons, but he does not oppose and attach to the amendment, as proposed by Mr Kontic and SD, unless he thinks otherwise. But the fact is that this amendment has taken place, as some speakers in the Chamber said today, that the opposition obstructed the meeting of the mother good. That's right. She obstructed it, and this was not said today because this meeting was held in the hands of the impossible. Authoritatively by the President, with the influence of the Minister on the course of events, on the words that have been spoken and by denying what has been said in many ways well. Under the influence of this coalition force, we then felt that the abundance of rules had been violated, that mistakes had been made, because it was not possible to speak normally under such conditions. And to report today to Mr. Saiovic, it's a pity he wasn't at the board meeting, that's where he could say it. There was no way to say that. Nobody wanted to hear it there. What's this Mr. Saiovic supposed to be there for, he didn't speak in vain? Everything that was done and spoken by the opposition was spoken in vain. This coalition has decided how it will act, this coalition has decided to enact such a law as it is, and has not even allowed a discussion of the need for perhaps otherwise formulated laws as they are before us in this case. And this also proves in a way the situation or chronology of events. We started at 12 o'clock on this parental committee, we interrupted or we left the opposition MPs at half-four, so three and a half hours more than the content, we had to reject procedural complications and base our expectations. When we actually realized that this is not the way to work, we decided to leave, the coalition completed and accepted the story in eight minutes, in eight minutes they found that everything was fine and fine. Opposers or disruptive factor, the opposition, have gone away anyway and so on, and now we can run this roller to the end. And they drove him to the end, and in eight minutes, everything was saved. And that is why I do not believe in the sincerity of thinking and calling, why some have not been on the parental committee or why they do not participate today, because in fact every thought, as proposed, is also condemned to failure. If I go back to both amendments, I think they're appropriate, I think they're good, and they need to be supported. However, if the Minister has anything else to say that he has not told us, I expect him to tell us that we may only know why the amendment to Article 10a would not be appropriate, and why the terms of the debt or the extent of the debt have changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! There are even fewer of us in the hall right now, as was said before, but anyway. As far as debt is concerned, I feel that the story is very different from the congregation to the congregation. On average, it is not a problem, but it is because it is the municipalities and it is the mayors who are engaged with reservations, with some such healthy reasonable fear and do not want to bring their congregations to the brink. But I think that they have always been and, unfortunately, will also be municipalities and mayors, but they are in violation of all the rules that whistle at everything that is going on and bring their municipalities to the brink and beyond the possibility of borrowing. In doing so, it seems to me that the country must be on the side of those who have cautious reservations about this matter, and I must say that I am not always sure that everything is transparent, collected and controlled by these things, because, in my behaviour, this exception and those who are violating it always happens or are present, but usually only when the mayoral candidates or the mayors change and when the successor finds out what he has left behind and left the predecessor. That's when the real trouble comes. And here it seems to me that the country has not yet established sufficient prudential checks. However, as far as the debt is concerned, in addition to the treasury account, this could also be done in the market, but I must say that despite this dictatorship, I have, under the same conditions, quite a lot of reservations, especially because of the behaviour of what happened years ago, when the municipalities were looking for extremely favourable arrangements, as regards interest and the like, of course, which did not have any guardians in other matters. And here it seems to me that it is still necessary to consider whether this is the case because it is a debt, perhaps a little easier if it is where the funds were going, but many congregations have lost a lot of money. However, I would like to say, given that today it has been said that the government here has little interest in this law, that this is also the result of us adopting these, in my opinion, extremely important changes in the law on the financing of municipalities following a reduced procedure, although the content is extremely important and is mainly about adapting to this or following what the Constitutional Court decision imposed on the Ministry when the dispute was triggered by the municipalities. If you remember, these were the four congregations that lost huge amounts with the previous marriage, among them clearly Ljubljana, the most that lost 60 million euros. It seems to me that today we do not have the right opportunity to discuss what I think would be most important. This is what this decision of the Constitutional Court has communicated and what it has instructed the legislator to do. I am convinced that the changes to the law before us do not follow this decision of the Constitutional Court, that you have tried to bypass it at the most important points, this is at the point of defining or providing the so-called own resources of the municipalities, because the problem has been the most exposed and still not solved. And I believe that the predictions that are here, which means that the capital will again sue its own country, such that we should not be too pleased when we accept this change. And I am sure that this will happen, because at no point, what I will say, according to the will of the interpreters of this decision, and the next day, when the decision came to order, we can see that each one has interpreted it in his own way, in his own interests. Today, we have one such interest, that is, in the interests of the government, here before us is a change. It seems sad to me that we have been in a situation where, in fact, the Government has carried out some sort of revenge over the capital throughout the mandate. That's not good, and it's not decent for any country. It is not decent for the capital to sue its own country. It also seems to me that it is easy at that point, where it has also always been promised that the Ministry and Government will try to help and exploit the capital law and prepare certain things for the capital, this has not happened until now. The capital, I would say, is in the midst of these financial deficits caused by the Government, and this is intended for revenge because of certain human resources solutions in Ljubljana. And I believe that the issue of own resources remains open, that you have not resolved it, that another decision of the Constitutional Court will be necessary to begin to regulate it. In doing so, I must say that the same pattern is also used in the financing of municipalities. And if the public doesn't know where the key source is that we've been so opposed to the way we've financed the landscapes, it's right at this point. That the sample and the syntax of the method of financing the landscapes is exactly the same as it should be, and such as the financing of municipalities that promote that they do not have their own resources, and that the country gives only the resources that are withdrawn. There is also solidarity on these derogated sources, which is completely pointless. Let the state give solidarity resources from its own pocket if it considers it necessary to finance certain municipalities or future provinces and to give them a difference between what they themselves do not achieve, but let their own resources from individual municipalities or provinces, if I speak to them in theory, leave them to themselves. And here we are fully violating the European act on local community autonomy because we do not provide our own resources. The source of its own resources is the resources that the congregation itself prescribes, determines, declares its own height and changes it. And these are your own resources! What is in Slovenia, however, are the resources given by the country mercifully to those who do not meet, if I speak a little in the pronunciations, of this. And we build solidarity on these apostate sources, and then the confusion is perfect. And we are constantly building this confusion up with new and new amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which I feel is becoming increasingly involved in some stage of absurdity, which we can also follow with this last amendment. Therefore, I think it is also clear why it is always so manipulated with data, why it does not show concrete financial calculations early enough, does not debate on these exact numbers, and then one always accuses itself that they have no idea, because the saving calculations are only on one side, and these are almost never enough early enough to get, or look, or compare. In this respect, it seems to me that this sample, which is being built by the Local Self-Government Service in connection with the financing of municipalities and the follow-up to the Constitutional Court decision, is completely wrong in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. In view of the desire expressed for further discussion, I am reopening the application circle. Here you go. Once again, we have three reported debaters. The first one has the word of Ambassador Villa Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	Thank you. Two explanations. Colleague Saiovic and some spoke about the indebtedness or non-application of the quota for the indebtedness of institutions or public enterprises to the extent that the municipalities were indebted. That it's the only solution. Yes, I believe that in terms of a particular problem in a specific environment, this can be a solution that is dangerous, but force is dangerous. What Comrade Saiovic has pointed out is just a school case to justify the fact that this force is dangerous. Water supply or the construction of infrastructure through public debt would be indisputable if we had a normal system of European comparable prices for municipal services. This is said when the price of the service would include depreciation and any costs that must be incurred in the service. We have not had this for fourteen years, since 1994, and in 1993, July 1st, since then, but have been monitoring the price of municipal services in contrast to the shorter intervals of the country. As a rule, the cost of depreciation, we understand each other, the depreciation of the network or the municipal infrastructure, has fallen virtually to nothing. Unlike the costs, the recognised costs of depreciation of the operator from cars and some others, even if you want, from computers. It is for the payment of such a resource, it is for the payment, not for the price, not for the budget. And then the question arises, why does the bonds of debt instead of a municipality through a municipal company or some institution if it does not have a source? Everyone will give their consent because at the moment they will seek a solution without seriously considering the consequences. Of course, these funds, which are indirectly for investments later in the second amendment. However, I am taking advantage of the opportunity, President, to replicate in some way to the Minister, who has responded to some of my statements in the presentation of the opinion. When I said that it was in force that new law in 2007 that the share of the revenues of the global municipalities in GDP fell to 5.23, which is the maximum level achieved in 2006 to 5.1. Yeah. One is measured by the share of GDP, the other is absolute growth, nominal, third is real growth and the corresponding shares. I hope we all know that, Mr. Secretary. But the fact is that the Government of which you are a member normally stresses in the field of public finances always measures performance in all these years by showing such or different costs, deficits or surpluses in the proportion of GDP. That is why we can talk on comparable grounds. And one more thing. In order not to confuse the fact that the share of GDP consumption of municipalities or revenues, better said at home, has been growing since the establishment of local self-government, I can only say for ten years, and that the annual growth rates in the past have also been higher than the present. Maybe one of the colleagues who claims otherwise, and now he's not here. This mandate of this government is a matter of three levels of growth. From 2004 to 2005, 0.19% of GDP, from 2005 to 2006 0.19, plus, of course, GDP and from 2006 to 2007, minus 0.13% of GDP. In the previous mandate, from 2000 to 2001 0.25, from 2001 to 2002 0.12, from 2002 to 2003 0.20 and from 2003 to 2004, 0.08% of GDP increased in absolute terms. And of course, the biggest growth - too bad that there is no Mr Puksic - was 0.19 in 1999 and 0.34% of GDP in 1999 and 0.25 in 2000. So we will know what we are talking about, and we will not falsify or misinterpret statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The Minister shall be involved in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. I just need to explain all this. Now, according to the Ministry of Finance, I will state exactly the proportions of GDP in terms of municipal income: in 2000 4,93, 2001 4,92, fall, from 2001 to 2002, 4,86, fall, then on 2003 a slight increase to 4,89, from 2003 to 2004, fall again to 4,86, and then to 2005, growth to 5,05, and then to 2006, 5,24, and it is true that from 2006 to 2007, a slight drop to 5,08, because the share of GDP growth was significantly high and the total share of GDP, public finances, measured on GDP, fell significantly. Not only the municipal work, but the measured one and the other. And relatively speaking, the congregation, according to the state’s work, also grew this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you, too. We continue on the basis of the list of Members and Members declared. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting, Mr. Minister with a co-worker and a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! This growth, this share has been higher than inflation in recent years. But I think that the amendment to Article 6 or Article 6 sets out in detail how municipalities are supposed to owe or seek financial resources, credit resources, to bridge co-financing from European funds or the backlog in investment, municipal investments that need to be made and compensated for the backlog of past decades. In fact, in my opinion, the municipalities are only working intensively in recent years also on environmental projects, and this is serious. This seriousness is necessary already because European money is included in this story. The European money will, of course, come to an end when everything is realized if it is properly made. Unfortunately, there are still many in Slovenia looking for illegal routes or holes or acts unlawfully, as far as this debt is concerned. In my opinion, the detailed wording in this Article, or Article 10a and Article 10b, in particular Article 10a, is written just to alert the municipalities, the mayors and their supervisory authorities, in particular the supervisory committees and the municipal councils, what is actually allowed and where the borders are. I think it's basic and best control. I believe that mayors and municipal councils are responsible for decisions taken or decisions taken outside the legal framework. The law does not speak of NRPs and these periods, but these things are regulated already in other laws, and in this context things need to be seen in these 4-year periods, 2-year budgets and, in particular, in my opinion, the regulation, which is listed here, but it is a regulation on the single methodology and preparation and treatment of investment documentation. This is one regulation, one document which is violated by both investors - municipalities or municipal companies, if we are talking about it - as well as designers and auditors. Unfortunately, due to the seriousness of the framework of these European funds, today, in my opinion, in addition to these provisions, it has been set here, so that municipalities can at all acquire bridging resources so that they can go into such important investments and by lending matters spread out for many years, here is the greatest manoeuvre, and at the end of the day can be a very tragic consequence if things do not go according to this methodology and the rules that they are. And also with the rules that are in here about borrowing - we have been meeting things lately, and in recent times it has not mattered. Now I think it is, and it may come to pass that because of violations of the rules - or revisions and projects as such are waiting for them, they are returning to their beginnings, or that in the end the funds already granted will not be paid due to violations of the rules. I'm mostly afraid of that. However, I think that the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of Government or the Regional Development Service, in such cases mostly the Ministry of Environment and Space and Transport, is the guardians empowered by the European Commission to be careful and that there are no non-professional decisions here. I agree with the law and oppose such amendments, I think the law is necessary, because otherwise the municipality will not be able to close the financial structure and there is a need for a procedure. There is likely to be a need for further improvements and for any additional allowance or relief in the sense that municipalities, or that interstate projects, together with the country, will also have financial coverage for possible fluctuations at the end of costs. Thus I see no problem at all, and such amendments are - at least this amendment to Article 6 is unnecessary. In any case, the treasury credit, if I may call it that, must in any case be more favourable than the most favourable commercial credit, by the logic itself. And treasure credits should never, in their essence, allow commercial banks, of course, to be subject to some of the current large discounts used by commercial banks to attract their clients or to dissuade them from their competitors, is an average. In this way, I will not support this amendment, and I propose that we hurry with the adoption of this law, but the warnings that I have given, above all, to the respected methodology of preparing this documentation, but not only in a formal sense, but also in a professional sense, where there are very important decisions on what type of project an investor chooses here is the greatest responsibility: not only on an investor who is often a rather untapped party, but on behalf of an investor, that is what the designers are saying, and ultimately also on behalf of the investor. I think that here this link of responsibility should be more transparent and obvious, and even if there are problems, there should be clearly defined culprits and probably sanctions. I would like to conclude with this, and I will probably no longer speak to you about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Aloys Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the Government, fellow Members and Members! I will not support these amendments myself, and I imagine that a treasury loan can never be on worse terms than commercial bank credits, that is simply not possible. Even if it sometimes seems that, for example, the interest rate is attractive, then other insurance mechanisms of the bank are used to ensure that they end up with them. I am very sorry that there are no colleagues from the party Really, because they were once part of the government coalition as LDS Members, and I would particularly like to know that they still have enough time to say how they calculated these shares of gross social product after years. Because in fact, the data is exactly what the minister said. These are the data of the Ministry of Finance. Where did they calculate it? For example, my colleague, Mr. Trophynik - I would really like to know. In addition, I would like to say that, in their term of office, they have "burned" so many tasks that they will have mercy on God and, when this government has arrived, in fact, has stopped this eternal imposition of additional tasks. There's only one thing I'll mention. This family assistant - what problems we had in the congregations and how easily they voted in Parliament! I won't touch everyone else because time won't let me. What I'd like to say is this. I am very surprised that this law on the committee was opposed to some obstruction and that we hear here how quickly the amendments were adopted. Of course, they were coalitionly coordinated! We're proposing a good marriage! After all, all congregations receive more. For 26 million! I am very glad that Ormož gets 352,000 more under this law. I'd vote for this law with two fingers if I could. We'll make four kilometers of roads because next year we'll get more money. Who can argue with some arguments if they were some of them - I don't know what you said, technical complications or procedural ones. For if these were procedural complications, then they are usually triggered by the opposition. This law preserves the Solidarity Fund and this eternal guarantee or regret and repetition that Ljubljana has taken something. Yes, I'm asking you nicely, but what took place? The Ljubljanans didn't take anything! I have told you many times, and make a comparison between one rural municipality and one Ljubljana municipality, and calculate how much a kilometer of water costs in the rural area and a kilometer of sewerage and a kilometer of road construction and road maintenance, and how much we pay for school transports that Ljubljana does not have to pay! On the one hand, you claim that the Ljubljana people should give more and on the other hand you are problematic about how low wages are and how low pensions are. Yeah, where are those low wages? There's 400 euros of pay in there! It's right over there. There are many more good wages in Ljubljana, dear lady here on the right. The ones that are tall. But we don't have these jobs. We have something small, I don't know, doctors and professors. Universities, it's all here, please! All state institutions! And Ljubljana feels through this, I don't know, threatened and this is what your Ljubljana mayor always explains, when they took something from me, I won't be able to make stadiums and all that, those 23 projects. We fight for basic things in the countryside, not stadiums. I don't know, Mrs Orzmova said very well earlier how Ljubljana was affected, how we took something from them. Let's just say one piece of data, a payday. On average, kindergarten costs about the same, throughout Slovenia, where teachers pay certain, standards are set. We get from parents there somewhere around 19, 20% - is the share of parents in the price of kindergarten. However, the national average is 33, 34. This means that we have to give these 14% out of the budget more, 1.6 million ladies at the annual kindergarten level. We are associated with the municipality of Secina in Serbia, which is as big as the municipality of Ormož, has so many inhabitants. They have an entire budget of EUR 2 million. And we give 1.6 for kindergarten. You are proposing, I have heard, in the balance of the budget of the amendment, which would provide 4 million euros more for higher standards in kindergartens. Please, are you serious? Do you understand what this country is about? You don't understand that! You don't understand! It really pisses me off. It's okay to be in charge for some real purpose. If we are in charge of water supply resolution, municipal infrastructure, and I agree that it will be possible for us to draw on European funds at this time, so that the municipalities can also develop further. It is wrong if a congregation is in charge of building athletic trails that are not needed or built at all, then no one is using them, or if they are in charge of sports courses and so on. That's wrong. I would never agree to that logic. But I am very pleased that this law maintains the Solidarity Fund. And you speak, fellows on the left, that the congregations must find autonomous resources. Yes, but where do they find those autonomous sources, if you criticize them, and you say that pensioners have low pensions and halon municipalities, Slovene-Horish, our pretzels - where do they get these autonomous resources? Thus, we must establish some principle of solidarity. I understand why these suggestions of yours - in any case you want to destroy these small rural congregations, but you will not succeed. You fought for a long time, people wanted congregations, they got, I was very happy, I was at the opening of a three - mile [three km] road in a congregation called St. Tomaž, which fought for years. They haven't made any roads in 15 years. Now, for a good year of work, they're opening up a new road. And I already said that, which was sad, and it actually surprised me, but it was that there were no journalists who were invited to report on their joy and satisfaction. No, not a word about it, not their success! And the people in their wallets, because they saw that the congregation was involved, provided considerable funds. Only in this way can we reach a higher standard in this area. I very much welcome this law, I am very pleased and thank both Minister Žagar and the Minister of Finance, who has provided financial resources so that we can continue to open this wallet for the development of the municipalities more than ever. And once again, I am very surprised by those who oppose this and even want to obstruct the adoption of this law. That's really sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you very much. In what other congregation did they open a road? Anyone else want to put this in particular? Comrade Drofenik, Comrade Kontic? No, no, no. Good. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendments, but in general, the roads, the pensioners. Thank you very much. So I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 6. We are moving on to Article 15 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Does anyone want to discuss this here? I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. Member Villa Trofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Of course, the area of co-financing of investments is one of those areas which the Constitutional Court has considered inappropriate. It should be pointed out that we have warned of this inadequacy and not only constitutional non-conformity, but also the "indemnity" of the solutions that were in some way forced, two years ago, but that was about the same, bob against the wall as the debates on the committee. I also think that there will be no significant difference here at the plenary session. The proposer announced that he would prescribe a supplement to the law, the solutions he had or had - reportedly - in the sub-laws. By copying, of course, there is one major problem that is that everything is not always a problem when you copy something. This is so if I am a little mean, with a new article 23 or a new article 23 and 24. I apologize. He needs to return to the 23rd because he's closely linked to the 24th, which we're making an amendment to. What's the underlying problem? The fundamental problem is that in the normal system of financing municipalities, in normal or appropriate, most municipalities themselves should be able to finance the basic part of the investments that are required in the area of which they are legally or by way of a constitution. And, exceptionally, where this is not objectively possible or where there are other reasons, assistance from the State is expected. It's the other way around. While we at first glance like the move that the law provides the "global" means of co-financing investments, there is this desire again, how to distribute it, and this distribution should primarily serve - very directly, at least from this branch - some politician or some desire to rule, not to say, by power. The 24th article proposed by the Government should prescribe shares for each investment under a methodology we do not know; this methodology should be adopted again by the Government. But the indicators are prescribed, and the problem is in these indicators. What is the link with the gross value added of the employee in the municipality and the problem of closing the investment, such as the construction of a kindergarten or school, if you want, also a water supply. There is no link between the gross added value to the employee and the financial structure for the specific investment. There is also no link between income per capita, not the number of jobs and not unemployment or employment. Perhaps the ageing index is linked to investment in the nursing home, perhaps something else, but generally it has no logical connection to investments. And it's similar with indicators of developmental possibilities. Communal equipment with infrastructure - is not even described with which infrastructure, although some talk of sewerage. Unaware or aware of the possible speculation that someone will not build this segment of infrastructure, that it will exhibit a defect and thus a priority to investment in a purely third type of investment. Of course, with regard to cultural monuments, there is nothing to be said about the property of cultural monuments, they are spoken of as "accessible to the public". There are very few cultural monuments in Slovenia, perhaps some private ones that are not available to the public. And why would that be a criterion? Yes, if we were to provide funds to co-finance the restoration of cultural monuments, I do not know why it is a criterion in the pipeline or in the school. And it is similar with Natura 2000, which we insert, where it "feeds" us, even though this Natura 2000 is in fact a limiting factor for investment and many times for development, especially because it has been irresponsible, often in different areas, despite warnings. What I mean to say is that this 24th paragraph, or these indicators with an unknown methodology, which will only be determined by my weight for these indicators, has no direct link. None or a little bit. These indicators may have been useful for other areas or for some other definition of order or priority, and in general for the share of State aid in specific investments, this should be a school, whether it be a kindergarten or a cleaning plant, but this is, excuse me, no connection. That's the problem, one is the lack of consistency with the constitution, that's the worst, and the other is the quality of the rule. And now we want to introduce a regulation, by every force, no matter if it has a logical connection to the specific content. And what is essential: there is no article on the financial capacity or financial power of a particular congregation. There is no talk of standard costs, either the surface or the size of the object, if you want, or any other physical indicator, not at the price of the unit of the facility and so on. It is possible to build castles in clouds on a foreign account. And it's becoming a practice. Right to interest, even 100%, and that's the next flower. Co-financing of 100%, except in elementary accidents when it comes to specifics, exposes all the misery of these thoughts and solutions. 100% investment, 100% co-financed. However, if some of the costs, if they were to talk more about standard costs, it would be nice to look at long-standing practices abroad, what it looks like, but not to write that the municipality has the right to purchase land; not knowing that the municipalities have more or less access to a significant amount of land and that, while the fund law is in force, it is possible to arrive and at least the land should be assured because it leads to speculation. Of course, there is one price on the market, or access to land, and there are other ways to get to land. And what do we propose with our amendment? Our amendment first takes into account the financial power or financial capacity of the congregation, since the aid must depend mainly on it. One who has enough money does not need help or needs it to a lesser extent than one who does not have the money objectively. There is no such thing in the bill. He is unhappy in Article 23, I have to go back there, one criterion that tries to introduce this when he speaks of the share of participation in financial compensation, otherwise for the global level of investment - and it is forgotten that there is the same incapacity - either poverty or whatever you want - of the municipalities in a financial sense for those who do not have any financial compensation that can have just as much income as a measure, or that which has some financial compensation because it covers the level of zero in the financial settlement account. Therefore, such hair-attracted indicators and approaches do not solve things, but end up bringing some into a privileged position and others into a deprived position, in particular because no account is taken of financial power. Since this law does not touch on the extraordinary incomes of certain municipalities, such as concession fees for gambling, in good faith or in any way, or on a system of financing. And some others. And some have very important extra incomes, and with these indicators they can be eligible for maximum participation in investments. If this is a just, logical and normal solution - of course, it is a matter of judgment. I don't think it can be for most people, no matter how they imagine it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Of course, it would not be obvious that I am simply explaining that the power of the financial community must take account of all the revenues. Of course, you have to do it in some way. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much. You're running out of time. May I conclude the discussion in connection with Article 15? No, no, no. I'm reopening the application procedure, please. We have an additional five members, and Member Franz Puksic has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with co-workers. The Slovenian Democratic Party of the Amendment of the Group of Ambassadors will not simply support Article 15 because it is completely pointless and such a way of formula would begin to implement what the then LDS, now, really, and the then coalition failed, but today it has been renewed here, in the National Assembly, when the municipalities should begin to unite. I am quite familiar with the work of local self-government, and I can tell you that in areas where municipalities have or share a common interest, they combine for certain tasks, for certain projects and they also successfully run them. Of course, there would no longer be integration in such a way that someone would force it again - of course, but that would be a stalemate in development in the whole area. This amendment of the Zares Group means that, in particular, the municipality of Maribor, Juršinci, the municipality of Ormož, the municipality of Tabor, Tišina, Trnska vas, Turnište, Vipava and so on, if listed, should add up to 53 municipalities, lose 40 % in co-investment; then 33 municipalities would lose 30% in co-investment; 22 municipalities 50%; then the numbers are lower, 8 municipalities 60%, 37 municipalities 10% and 30 municipalities 20%. In short, 91 percent of the municipalities would lose, only 8.5% of the municipalities would benefit from such co-financing. The formula is probably when you study it, but you can't find all the loops in such a short time, it probably has a few anomalies installed again, just like it did at the time - raising the municipalities' income and thus autonomy from 30% to 35% of the income. This was formally true, but this was not the case in the developed municipalities with a factor of 10 times more per capita, and in the undeveloped with the same factor of less - or: the spread increased. The fact that the gap between developed and underdeveloped congregations has increased in the last decade has also been a sign of this law on the financing of municipalities since 1998, yet the congregations and the congregation councils have simply managed to create those basic conditions much better than they were before. I can't imagine what it would look like today in Slovenia, except in central Slovenia, if we hadn't passed a law on local self-government in 1994, and if we hadn't set up an additional number of municipalities every four years, today 210. Or in other words, colleagues and colleagues: not that I can't imagine, yesterday, like the 11th time, the Slovenian Democratic Party was on the ground in Prekmurje as part of its parliamentary group. We were, part of us, Members and Members of the Apache congregation, which we established a year and a half ago here in the National Assembly. Since another congregation celebrated its 14th anniversary in these days of independence and when I compared what they were talking about in that congregation when it was formed 14 years ago, what I heard in Apache yesterday was exactly the same. Or, in other words, in the congregation of Apache, which belonged to the congregation of Radgon, life has, in fact, stopped. You can imagine the mayor said: "In the municipality we have over 80 kilometers of uncharted cities, in the municipality we have only one third coverage with plumbing, and it is in bulk. In the municipality of Apache, from the municipal budget, we pay the water we give to pregnant women, mothers who breast-feed children" - and so on. In short, disaster! And that is what our country would look like outside of central Slovenia if we did not accept local self-government and if we did not have these municipalities. Those who don't believe it, go look at it, even from the Zares Group, because they have four of their saints there, and they will see what misery it can be because of someone blocking their existence in an artificial way - with 3,500 inhabitants. It just can't be true. You're making a big deal out of it. By adopting this amendment, the policy would go this way, not directly, but into this. Today, I have heard in the National Assembly that there must be an end to those who create and to those who do not. Economic operators have been created, formed mainly or rather where there is a more favourable area for this. The more favourable area for economic operators is infrastructure. You know, in this country we first built a promise carousel, only 10 years later we're building a highway to Prekmurje. In this country, despite the fact that MPs and ruling coalitions were just from Prekmur, they did not "pull" a metre in 12 years. For the last four years, this has been being built, and it is now those who have not affected that I will say to my Members, then to ensure the development and conditions of economic operators, today I do not know what kind of hall they are running. And we cannot agree with the amendment, which would also apply to these congregations in this area, even those who have come into existence. If it says somewhere that it is necessary to co-finance up to 100% of the eligible costs, it still means that in that local community there is a whole VAT to cover the local community. In the Apache congregation, we were just discussing how to make an investment with seven million euros. So - about what? The water supply, the basic goods, which, of course, are mostly in other parts where local governments have been saved, has long stopped talking about it. And with the help of European funds, with the help of the State, the municipality will contribute 10% and VAT, which is 30%. However, since there are two such projects and they have to be carried in parallel, this is €14 million of investment, it is also a huge claim for such a municipality, although for three or four years. By adopting this amendment, we say that it is simply impossible to do so and disable them, thus forcing the Apache Valley to move out and other places. It is right that we should not develop this country equally, but that we should make the conditions for approximately the same, roughly equal conditions - both for life and for economic operators. Economic operators will come when we have the infrastructure in place; they will come when people in the countryside - which is now happening, thank God - stay because the quality of life is comparable or more comparable than it was before this local government. As in previous legislation, we have not yet fixed everything, and we still have something to do. Like taking the kids to school. In rural areas or in municipalities outside the centres, this is one of the major costs of the budget. Remember, I've already presented this with numbers, even up to 8% in individual municipalities, by making this in urban areas in hundreds or even thousands - which makes sense. But that is why it is necessary to help people in this area in a different way. In 2003, when the then Prime Minister Tone Rop sent information to the National Assembly that the government had then decided on fourteen provinces, etc. - Of course, from here on out, even in that year until 2004, they did nothing, not a single law itself - it has been written that, in fact, not only because it is a political consensus, but also because of the diversity of our country, such as it is, there is no other option than to make fourteen provinces. And just like we did 210 congregations - and probably what we'll be - it's also because of diversity. And after 12 years or 14 years of local self - government, this proved to be the second best project in the country. Therefore, with the financing law, which we have finally fixed two years ago, we are now upgrading it, we are going to oppose such anomalies as I would really like to bring them and other parliamentary groups that are defending it, because it would mean returning to the system of the one that we had 60 years under the "carbalvin" and, as we know, it did not bring us any good, but it meant essentially evicting from the countryside and neglecting and fertilising. Our country is too small, our country is beautiful and co-workers, and, fellows, we are too few to spend it in this way, in such an unreasonable way. That's why we won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	Member Borut Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I have nothing against the theories that have developed now. Although they have relatively little connection to Article 15, for local self-government they are no doubt important stories. This theory, too, if it will financially sustain, the congregation in every Slovenian village and province in every small town, does not bother me, but we will certainly be dealing with the cost issues in the long run. Like those municipalities that we are among the middle and the smaller, it is because of the funding of the municipalities that we associate in the field of inspection, regulation, even in the field of audit, and I consider this to be positive and this is nothing wrong. However, before concluding the debate, not directly with regard to Article 15, I would ask the Minister a few questions which were not answered. Is it the purpose of this government to go before the elections before the single concept of municipal services prices? For if this is what we have been promised for a long time, then it is also necessary to inform all Slovene municipalities and to approach it for all under roughly uniform criteria and uniform criteria. I agree with previous debaters that the situation in Ljubljana is significantly different from in the countryside, so if prices are, say, in the municipality we have in the countryside, then there are many per kilometer of water supply, water connections, 10 to 15, in the centre, such as Ljubljana, and these connections on one kilometer can be as much as 2 or 3 thousand, so the prices are different. This is the first question: Will the Ministry insist that these prices of municipal services in government and in cooperation with other ministries be properly corrected before the fall, even before the elections, which will allow development? Another thing that seems important to me. In the case of European funds, for cohesion funds, the last train will take us away from 2013; after this year, the funds will acquire others from a new financial perspective. The responsibility for these cohesion, for development funds, should be those five years, as far as we have yet, in particular, to have the maximum quota available, so that we can draw on and close the available funds to the maximum extent possible. And what we hear more than once is a comparison of small and medium - sized congregations. I am convinced that those of the smallest municipalities whose main concern is plumbing and asphalt do not have social problems such as old, industrially degraded municipalities in the working environment, that these small municipalities do not deal with the problems of libraries, schools, public institutions, museums, public universities and simply have fewer problems with health care and pharmacies. Of course, all these matters still need to be taken into account in the financing of the municipalities, because it is people from those smaller municipalities who invest everything in asphalt, come and benefit from infrastructure also from these larger, older administrative municipalities, so watermelons and plumes cannot be compared in size. And there's news from this week that I'd like to report to the minister. If it has answers, why has the Ministry of Agriculture stopped certain rural tenders? If we've done some "kiks" in amending the legislation, I think we're all, both coalition and opposition, still able to fix it before the summer, and it's not the kind of thing to make us laugh. But if the ministry, the government services for local self-government and development, then I think it's also this area, even though without a license, which is still important for this job, and it's only right that, like that, the municipalities would tell us, the most our ministry would help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much. However, Member Milan M. Squeakl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I had to look at the billboard where we are on the agenda and which article. Because the discussions before me were more about questions for ministers, but the Minister will respond. That is why I would like to return to Article 15. Article 15, I believe, with the amendment proposed by colleagues from the Zares Group, specifies much more precisely the extent of co-financing than the current Article 24, which amends Article 24. I think that this is very important to determine in this law, so I support the amendment of the Zares Group. Why is that? This is because the law in other provisions - I will not talk about them now, because they are not the subject of debate - does not provide the municipalities with what they were deprived of in 2007 and 2008. In 2007 and 2008, the municipalities received all the revenue from the expected increase due to the well-known co-financing system that was taken. We can discuss this a lot, but Article 2 is very clear - the basis for what the congregations are supposed to receive is the 2006 income, ahead of the year, and the Minister knows that. Therefore, it seems to me that it is one of the more appropriate or necessary ways to ensure that the municipalities are only able to deal more with the issue of co-financing of investments or to deal with the issues themselves, but the proposal is the one made by the Zares Group. That is why I support this amendment, and I would particularly like to hear what the Government has to say about this amendment. Does the Government support this amendment, and with what arguments does it reject it? I think it is necessary for the Slovenian public to say that the text, as it is now stated in Article 15, will, I will tell the Ministry responsible for finance to determine what the development of the municipality is, and then the Government, and so on, will develop all of this further. Here is proposed an objective criterion approved by the National Assembly, and I do not think there is any other in Slovenia than the National Assembly, which can properly regulate the criteria for this funding, co-financing of municipalities. I find it unacceptable that, in this mandate, in some way, including this proposal for a law, the National Assembly is still trying to reach the extent of the funds. This was done in the so-called previous version of this law on the financing of municipalities, you have now gone back to the relative share of income, 54% is now this, but 54% in 2006, which is the problem. It should be, I don't know, at least 54% of 2007 or 54% of 2008 with corresponding accounts at the end of the year. Do not do this, but of course - in fact, this law is in some way substantially subordinate to what has already been adopted in the 2008 budget, despite the fact that we will begin the consideration of the balance today. I'm concluding. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not fully follow the constitutional assessment of the unconstitutionality of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities and still does not respect local self-government as a fundamental principle. Therefore, any opposition by the Government to the proposed amendment would only confirm that the Government, Minister Žagar, Minister of Finance and everyone else, simply still want to decide what is the criterion for the development of the municipalities. Then of course I do not know why we have a National Assembly in Slovenia, because of course it is very difficult for anyone other than the National Assembly by law to determine the objectivity of the criterion. This will now be determined on the basis of the text of the Government and is not fully known how the Government will do so. Thank you very much. I request the Minister of Finance's response on the Government's position on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I'll try to give you some answers. Now, with regard to the questions addressed by Mr Saiovic, I must say that they go beyond the scope of our work, even though we are monitoring the full adoption of legislation from the point of view of the municipalities. It is also required for the adoption of legislation or all other rules for the participation of both associations, because associations themselves must be in an active position to negotiate with the State. And the solutions that are therefore in this law, even in this amendment, are in particular in the area of the adoption of budgets for the following years, because they are now adopted for this year by the adopted budget or even in the transitional provisions of the law, and this part has not been assessed, I am talking about the level of the average. This is through the two associations in a significantly stronger negotiating position, and I hope that they can and will achieve it. Thus, in fact, the municipality is the power, let's say, to be able to justify what you've been saying - to increase the costs and to adopt certain acts. This has practically not been possible in the past period before this law. It happened that during the preceding period the National Assembly accepted certain burdens and could not do anything from the point of view of the municipalities. These matters are now recorded in the law and must, of course, be duly justified through costs, by comparing the costs for mandatory tasks in the whole of Slovenia for all municipalities, regardless of the type of municipalities, because they are covered by the same acts. As for some questions, at this point I cannot answer why the agricultural ministry has stopped, we can ask questions, and we can transfer them to colleagues. As far as methodology is concerned, I agree here because we have already heard that prices in the municipal area have been practically frozen for 14 years, not at this time, but that one of the measures is also related to rising inflation controlling price growth. That's perfectly clear. In my view, as this is within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Economy, this methodology is also being prepared. But I can't really give a concrete answer to this. As regards the implementation of European projects. As I mentioned earlier, we have also brought debt and these solutions through coordination with both associations and comments and suggestions, so that our assessment of the implementation of these projects is significantly facilitated. However, since we are talking about the communal area, of course, of long-term projects, and one such project, it is also reasonable to think about some long-term debt. Because, to be honest, at least I didn’t think so, such long - term assignments were not used at all. Five years isn't long-term. I'm talking about some substantial longer-term debt. If you make a complex pipeline now, you can get a maximum of 85% of this without VAT from cohesion funds, not only from the Cohesion Fund, but also from the Structural Funds, if these investments are at a lower value, then this long-term debt is also reasonable and the Treasury Account is supposed to provide the optimal conditions for this debt. It would be illogical if you didn't, and then there should be someone there to ask why these conditions aren't provided. With regard to this amendment - first of all, I must say that we do not support this amendment because we have coordinated things and have always had such comments by the municipalities, again through both associations, because in previous solutions to the old law, in some ways this is brought into this law again, in our view, this represents a huge fragmentation of funds, because they can be co-financed, say, 10%, which is less than the scope of VAT can. When we have made a comparative calculation between what our solution brings and what is proposed through this amendment, the level of co-financing for all municipalities is usually reduced if the amendment is adopted, practically through all municipalities. That's why we don't support it. As far as methodology and these things are concerned, we accept these things and it is essential that they be accepted, because the parameters change and cannot be written into the whole law over the years, it is then an annual regulation. This Regulation is now being adopted, they are fully transparent and transparent, as they are also adopted at the final stage by the Government. The calculations, however, are based on the calculations of Umar according to known data. And for the past two years, this development of the congregation has been taken into account, and this data has also been appropriately adapted by interaction. As for comparisons with the amendment itself, I must also point out that this amendment also provides for the adoption of sub-legislative acts at individual ministries. For example, I say: the cost of financing investments is taken into account at the standard level. The methodology for calculating the standard cost shall be laid down by the Ministry responsible for each investment. According to my assessment, this is even a step back because we now have a single methodology that is adopted at government level and prepared for this by an appropriate service such as the UMAR. Thus it is not at all true that these things are not involved in this as well - and it speaks of the fact that it is probably almost impossible for all parameters to be written into the law itself and the meaning of this record is also set.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you very much. However, Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. First, if I look at the comparison of the solution proposed in the amendment and the one proposed by the Government, in fact, only two parameters are actually used by the drafters from the Group of Ambassadors, namely revenue and appropriate consumption. However, they are suitable for use: length of local roads, age of residents under 16 and over 64 years - if I am not mistaken, that is all. In the government proposal, however, more of these parameters, which are more specific, especially the risk indicators of municipalities, or the supply of goods and services to public utilities, define the meaning of what co-financing should be intended for, we are talking mainly about investments in environmental projects and water supply and transport infrastructure and other similar infrastructures between municipal installations. So there's no comparison here at all. The only argument the proponents are using is that they are more specific and that the government will have an open room here. Even as the minister has just said, there is still a lot to be defined in this proposal. The worst part of the proposal, however, is based only on a few parameters, if I sum them up just a few - 6, but at the very least the municipal development of the municipalities, which is covered in this part, how the municipality is provided with goods, services in the environment and water supply. In fact, I also made an argument with the representative of the applicants, who spoke about the fact that the municipalities should be financially independent. How can they be independent after such a backlog in the past decades? That's impossible. This backlog should allow these instruments, which are embedded in these improvements of the Community Financing Act, to make up for this backlog as soon as possible. This is the biggest problem in Slovenia, especially the environmental burdens that need to be addressed as soon as possible, the construction of sewerage, the removal of environmental burdens. Only then will it be possible to have an orderly and safe supply of drinking water. Not to mention other infrastructure failures, where already built infrastructures allow us to see that this is inadequate for at least one generation to two generations, so it is not modern enough or quality enough, especially the road. In fact, the municipalities in the west of Germany and Austria are, in fact, only in a way that they could be in debt, regulate their municipal infrastructure, and that is not in fact a backward starting position in the developed world. Here I then compare the problems of both urban and rural, both developed and less developed congregations. Each has its own problem and its own backlog and its own needs to replace a time that has been wasted. So that this basic restriction in our law, which allows for debt for that part of co-financing from European and state budgets, where there are no practical constraints, but the limits are only in proportion to the share granted through these criteria, is then the fundamental limit of 8% of the revenue in the previous year, for which, in fact, the debt obligations are in fact a small amount. The municipalities would probably also be able to make a larger amount, but I am aware that this is now the first stage of this, I would say that in some way the possibilities of debt are released, which in this case is not debt, but rather the replacement of lost time, the early new investment start-up, the modernisation of this infrastructure. In fact, this debt is not a debt, but it is a search for a way as quickly as possible to finance investments and to enable its people and the economy to do the most good for public economic services. I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that when we amended the Law on the Financing of the Communities a good year ago, a substantial change was made in the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption. Why was there a change? Because we wanted to include in the formula for all 210 municipalities in Slovenia the most important parameters, which mean, at the end of the so-called fair distribution of funds. In addition to the original four most important parameters, these were local roads, municipality areas, people over 65 years of age and under 15 years of age. In fact, this has led to a new quality of law, on the one hand also to a new quality of community activity, in contrast with the fact that so - called financially supported congregations have received more financial resources. This is now followed by a way of co-financing investments, at least that's how I understand it. The proposal by the legislator is to take into account certain indicators when calculating the level of co-financing. I'm sure he didn't make them up. He didn't just make them up. And these are the indicators that will show, at the end of the calculation phase, which municipality is entitled to more investment funding in order to be able to make an investment at all. And I support the government proposal myself. With regard to the amendment, I must say that I do not see any added or new added value, so that this could be a solution that would mean more to those municipalities that are also weak in the field of investment, more to the contrary, so that they will get even less in the future. I am very pleased that the whole law is prepared so that, at the final stage, we can say that it follows the Constitutional Court's decision and provides municipalities with more financial resources. Look, there's been a lot of debate today about what terms are: own resources, decommissioned resources, independent resources, financial alignment. But you know, when I was in my congregation, too, at a number of openings and also in neighboring municipalities, no citizen or final user of drinking water asked me, "Listen to the mayor, tell me from which source you built this - whether it was your own source or if it was a decommissioned source." Whether it is in Kozyanski, Haloz or another part of our beautiful Slovenia, where there will be a lot more to do in the future and we can only be happy and satisfied that we are also trying to contribute more through this law to enable local communities to carry out the statutory tasks on the one hand, and on the other hand certain investments that are still urgently needed in individual local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you very much. We're running out of applications? Anybody else want to discuss this? I see two hands. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you very much. In view of the debate that has been held here in order for the National Assembly to decide on the level of development of municipalities, it is necessary to state that, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has issued a decision establishing the level of development, which is also in relation to the Finance Act. And since the question was then asked how, where from the indicators of development, or the threat, or the development possibilities, it was clearly stated here that the indicators of community development, i.e. the added value of companies per employee, is calculated from a three-year average, say, or per capita income is calculated from a three-year average, that the population risk indicators are calculated on the basis of the age of the population, namely those from zero to 14 and then those over 64 years old, and let's say the indicators of development of Natura 2000, the proportion of people connected to public sewage and so on. In short, that comes out of it. This is all I want. In view of the fact that some Members, who are also in the mayor's office, have taken a very strong stand here or have presented a problem regarding the assignment of individual municipalities, how to take the following projects forward, including Tržič. Such adoption of the amendment would mean 50% less funding for the Municipality of Tržič for co-financing, and then the fellow Member of the Sajovics will have even greater problems. And according to what they texted me, two messages, so someone tells me that they have excellent spruce syrup that should help me deal with the rigors. I'll be happy to take it. However, the second text I received was that he asked me to tell my colleague Sayovic that the budget of the Municipality of Tržič was in charge of 2.4 million when he took over, and for two additional millions, that is now 4.4 million, and that he should also answer with his property. That's what they wrote me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Saiovic, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you very much. My fellow Member has apparently already captured the pre-election fever virus. However, I must say that at this time when I am mayor, the Municipality of Tržič has not even rented the euro of long-term credit, despite the problems in which we are trying to spend as much as we have. Of course, before projects that have been poorly planned in the past, it will be necessary to rent a long-term debt in the future, thus covering the needs of the congregation, for example, in the area of water supply, cleaning appliances and canals, for example, for the next 50 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen! Talking about funding congregations is always an unfinished story. Whenever we discussed this in the National Assembly, Members had one opinion and Members and mayors had another opinion, because they looked at the same problem with completely different criteria, perhaps with greater behaviour on what we discussed. You could say that the current reform of the law, as far as I'm concerned, is not the one. With him, it will be possible to survive, but such a law is certainly not of quality and will not bring us what the position has claimed, but for the duration of its mandate, milk will flow through these places between them. I don't believe it. Look, this co-financing of investments already indicates, in this case, where the optics we set the criteria for the municipality. Should the congregation be such a legal entity that it can survive itself, or should the municipality be such a legal entity that the state will help it to a large extent and then, as before, the mayors of individual municipalities, where they do not have enough resources, ask as in Canoso as the pope did, and they will go to Ljubljana to the Government to get some of the funds and help the congregations to draw from the pliers of indevelopment? I think the system we have here is a little bit fixed, an old system that will not eliminate these inconsistencies. But it's a criterion that should be present. It is clear that if you have a large congregation in which one part is completely underdeveloped and the other part is super-developed, you both live in such a monetary situation to survive without evening. If you eliminate this poorer part, then the richer will really live well. The poor work will be well covered by the state through balancing and this divided congregation gets completely then inappropriately more money. Surely, congregations should be financed so that most of them can survive what is legally binding, alone. Not that the investments of these municipalities are co-financed. If the law is so-but, Minister, it is not now, it has already been imposed so - that most municipalities cannot survive if they are not compensated, most municipalities cannot survive or have no development, if they do not have co-financed investments and some other projects, then there is something wrong with such funding for municipalities in this market system. Think about making up companies and sharing them in a profitable and non-profitable part, increasing the number of people who manage these two, and a viable one could survive, but someone else would take care of or draw the same taxpayer's money from somewhere else that they wouldn't get in the first case. For this reason, another generation or two generations of Members will have to come and try to get such a law that, for example, at least 60% of the municipalities will be able to live on their resources, able to drive these investments, and that these municipalities will then prevail. Not that you now have the whole situation upside down, and it's basically a state apparatus that, through balancings, allows these investments to come in at all, basically create some kind of funding system from the state level. In doing so, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, I have walked a great deal in the field, and I can say that no government is immune to this. In such a funding system, those municipalities that also hold mayors as Members are best cut off. And that's a big, I'd say, loss of this marriage or inconsistencies. Second thing. The municipalities that have someone from the coalition as their MP are easier to break into the government than they are. However, because that was, respected colleagues and colleagues, a real disgrace to the budget, how certain investments on their roads and so on, Members of the position have done, voted here legally for themselves, agreed with the minister, and not a single thing went around in the company. Such a financing system in these areas, not only in the field of roads, but also in the field of education works very well and shows that the system itself is not good, it is not in the spirit of this time, there is still some other time. And in that sense, it's not good for a marriage like this to have one. It's like living with him, but it's not good. The MPs are now in the pre-election period and have been able to tell us how the Iron Age used to be, and now they're pouring honey and milk. Don't drink honey and milk. Look at how many people live, how many are below the threshold of poverty. Look what's going on with the honey. It won't be long either. Look at the bees. What happened to the milk is what we all know. That Slovenia is freed, what you promised, and that these debates here, which I have now listened to freed debates, are good for this country, forgive me, and then I am, if this is really me, 'a dog in rubbers'. That is why we view this with great scepticism in our parliamentary group. We think that this marriage could be done much better than it was designed to contribute much better to it. And if anyone doesn't see and say how bad everything was before, now it's good to look at the public opinion of what it says about the support of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And if that's not enough for him, then speak in the National Assembly, I'll use a very kind word, nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I note that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate on Article 15. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, on Wednesday 28 May 2008, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, it is I, for the second time, to propose a law on amendments and additions to the law on the abolition of the consequences of the asbestos act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Širca. With regard to this bill to the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the disabled, it is proposed that the National Assembly adopt a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs Jeraeva for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! At its 37th meeting, on 6 May 2008, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Asbestos by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed Majdo Shirca. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and commented on Articles 3, 4, 11, 12 and 14. The Committee has also been given an opinion by the Government, which opposes the proposal for a law because it considers that a more meaningful problem would be to resolve within the framework of a comprehensive system of providing state aid to the population. No amendments were tabled to the draft law within the time limit. However, proposals for amendments to the Committee were forwarded to the members of the Committee, which were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Members also received comments from the Clinical Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports, which were mainly limited to medical professional questions. During the second reading, the representative of the motions introduced a complementary explanation of the bill, stressing that they were committed to solutions that would give effect to the constitutional right to a healthy living environment. The proposal for a law enforces the principle that asbestos-affected persons are not separated, namely, the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos is limited to persons who have been employed in companies that have processed or stored asbestos or asbestos products in jobs where they have been exposed to asbestos. This continues the inequality already created by the Act banning the production and transport of asbestos products, between workers exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust and the surrounding population who have been exposed to the harmful effects of the same asbestos dust. The representative of the Government said that the Government disagreed with the proposal of the law and the reasons given were reflected in their written opinion. In the opinion of the Government, the Chairman of the Committee proposed that the Committee should discuss and vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate in which the debaters agreed that the issue in question must undoubtedly be addressed, it was stressed by some debaters that this is primarily the task of the Government. These issues are so difficult and challenging to require an in-depth analysis of the situation in this area and an interdisciplinary approach between ministries is also needed. Not only is it not clear, in their view, what will be the financial consequences and how to secure the necessary financial resources, but the proposal under consideration is also incomplete - what is the environment, professional and professional exposure to asbestos, early retirement and so on. We agreed with the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. Thus, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted, by 9 votes in favour and 7 against, the following decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos Work is not appropriate for further consideration."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much. There is no representative of the candidates, Mrs Majde Shirca. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mrs. Romana Tomc, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos. Some amendments were discussed in the debate on the adoption of the applicable Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Asbestos, as well as a proposal for a new law with a meaningful equivalent content in April 2006 and were rejected in the National Assembly. The government opposed such proposals and considered that it would be more reasonable to address the problem in the context of a comprehensive system of providing state aid to people who are physically affected by environmental pollution due to the impact of industry, transport or other environmental problems. The proposal to extend the range of beneficiaries of disease rights in relation to the exposure of asbestos in an environment where a person works or lives is essentially a new legislative initiative and not amendments and supplements to the applicable law. The purpose and purpose of the current law is to ensure social security and to pay compensation to workers who have received occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos, as well as to assist companies which are liable to compensation to sick workers and who would be at risk of doing business if they had to pay full compensation. The resolution of the consequences of asbestos work is aimed at demonstrating the causal link between exposure to asbestos at work and established occupational disease. In such a system, it was quite possible to clearly determine the financial implications or the extent of the necessary resources, whereas in the proposed law, with a insufficient set of beneficiaries, the scope of the necessary resources could not be defined. The proposal for a law does not provide for a method of determining environmental contamination or the procedure and regulation of such an important and challenging issue on which the extension of the circle of beneficiaries under this law also depends, this is left to the regulation of the sub-legislative act. The number of instruments provided for by the law in force cannot be changed in the manner envisaged by the proposed amendments, including, for example, the right to a disability pension under more favourable conditions, the procedure of communication, the role of an authorised doctor and other institutes. The Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration, given the fact that the applicant has not prepared an assessment of the financial implications of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Majda Shirci, despite a slight delay. On behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	And thank you so much for your kindness. As has already been said, without presenting your views, you will find it more difficult to make decisions. Let me warn you that in Slovenia asbestos production has been banned for 12 years. But the ban on production did not prohibit the disease. And the disease does not choose between those who have come into contact with asbestos at work and those who have come into contact with them outside of it. The law that eliminates the effects of asbestos disease has already been amended three times. We've talked about him a lot. But it hasn't been changed in a satisfactory way. Otherwise, we would not still be hearing that asbestos is killing and that the country is still silent about it. Today is another one, and for this mandate is certainly the last chance to break this silence. In the party, we would really like these pictures you see, pictures of your sick lungs at the time of the vote, to press your rejected votes. This law refers to the fact that asbestos victims do not separate that those who have not only been sick in the workplace but also outside the workplace are included, those who have been permanently living where asbestos has been processed and stored and the environment has been contaminated with asbestos. They say that compensations are justified under special conditions and that they can be justified in a lawful manner by the legal heirs of the deceased. We know that asbestos patients have a very short life span. This is called early mortality, 40 years old, patients with mesothelioma survive between 12 and 17 months. This law also states that the State must cover costs, costs and costs in judicial proceedings, and that one or five members of the Interdepartmental Commission should propose a trade union representing the sick. It also mentions that the sick person has the right to early retirement, which is linked to the disease found, but not to an extended retirement period if he wants to. Procedures may take longer than those of the sick. Mesothelioma, lung cancer, is aggressive. It is usually late and is incurable. Patients, as I mentioned earlier, spend one year to 17 months. Between 1964 and 2002, the mesothelioma affected almost 400 people, in the Soča Valley, the Ljubljana Valley, Isoli, Koper, Maribor and so on. The disease will grow steeply and will live to be higher and will continue after 2025. A silent killer, as they say, will surely threaten. Asbestos is extremely insidious, for it is only after 15, perhaps even 40 years, that it is suppressed in the lungs and causes severe diseases. The warnings of the European Association are louder and more heard every day. In some other countries, for example, in Italy, pensions and health care are provided for the sick. Now, answer the government to our proposal. I think they're full of alibis. You heard them today, too. It is said that it would be better if the problem was solved within a comprehensive system of providing state aid for environmental pollution. That's because of industry, traffic and so on. Lately, you started this on the government - when it can no longer be changed and even if you wanted to, you know that such a law is very, very difficult or even impossible to write. You're also saying that it's unconstitutional if we're spreading a circle of beneficiaries in a law dealing with occupational diseases. Does the law have the same title? No, it's not. And you're saying we don't define ways to detect contamination. But isn't the disease sufficiently clear and measurable? Not to talk about money, because we told you how much the consequences would have been. We know that there are excuses and excuses drawn from short sleeves. If it were their will, they would respond to their shortcomings, be amended, complemented, and cooperated with us. There's no will, and that's your only answer. I expect, at your will.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Asbestos legislation has been following us for the fourth year and some since previous mandates. We expected more information on all these large-scale and long-term discussions in the parliamentary group, given that the content was spreading, on the extent to which the disease had so far occurred in asbestos production facilities themselves, on the extent to which the disease was in the business environment and on the extent to which the companies themselves were not in direct contact with asbestos. We need to ask ourselves about the very definition of an environment threatened by the operation of an asbestos plant. Whether this is a radio of 100, 500 or more or more shall represent the edges of forests, plains or streams. In considering this law, we have been disturbed by the fact that, despite the long-standing validity of the existing law, no scientific institution has provided us with a qualitative analysis of the impact of asbestos on the environment, with an emphasis on the degree of risk in view of the distance from production itself, natural influences such as winds, vegetation, in short, on the impact of meteorological and climate conditions, which we cannot ignore if we want to not cause new injustices. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that this is a basic information that would make it significantly easier for us to decide how to address this issue and how to approach it in the future. I am convinced that in the event of an extension of beneficiaries beyond the scope of occupational diseases, the interdisciplinary commission should have in order to deal fairly with each individual case. Representatives of the Government also pointed out a lack of financial assessment when considering the novel, which is certainly not negligible. At the hearing on the working body, the parent committee, we received the position of the University Clinical Centre, under which Dr. Dodič Fikfakova signed. The above letter confirms the above-mentioned issues of meteorological and environmental conditions and other professional concerns. From the content of that point of view, it was clear that the profession was also not uniform in this question and that it wanted in-depth analyses that would provide a definitive answer that would be acceptable to the majority of the affected. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot understand, however, that in the everyday practice of implementing the applicable asbestos law, problems arise as a result of irregular administrative procedures, which should by no means occur, since everyone should be aware of the specifics of such a disease. For the sake of all of this, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party agree with the proposal for a conclusion that this amendment is not yet suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Excess, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, excuse me, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much for this correction, Mr Vice-President, because I am very firm in my beliefs and I do not intend to change customers, but in particular I do not intend to join the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	I apologize again, and you know I didn't do it hot. And I'm pleased to see your point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the Social Democrats on the draft law tabled by the Group of Members and Members. This is not the first time that a single group of Members and Members is advertised in relation to the law that eliminates the consequences of working with asbestos, which we would like to amend in February 2006 to adopt the Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Working with asbestos prepared by the Government and which we have adopted a month after that. In particular, I would like to mention the appeal of my fellow Member Sam Bevk, who said in the re-vote: "The Social Democrats' parliamentary group will vote against the law while calling on the Government to prepare a new law that will fully regulate the asbestos problem in Slovenia and, besides professionally, implement the environmental aspect of the recognition of asbestos diseases. I also call on colleagues and colleagues from the coalition to reject the law, because the discipline of all the few coalition members who have opposed the law so far is not an honour of Slovenian parliamentary tradition. Thank you very much." I read this because the proposed law wants to introduce precisely this aspect of environmental disease for diseases caused by asbestos exposure. Since this is not the first time, but, as a rule, that laws that touch asbestos in any way, which have suffered a considerable amount of stumbling, I would like to point out that already the first law adopted in 1996 on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products had to skip quite a few obstacles for it to be adopted because there were plenty of ways used to prevent it. The same was true later, so some things need to be clarified. In fact, what does the professional think and what things the professional expresses when we have this marriage before us? Indeed, the law does not produce financial consequences, but predicts the validity of the law only as of 2010, when certain things could also be defined more precisely and more accurately predicted consequences. It is true that the law, which has 16 articles, had comments by the Law-Legal Service, but, if we count precisely, 5 articles, these are also editorial in nature. However, we have examined and adopted laws in this National Assembly which have had comments on each article, and this has not been an obstacle to the adoption of the law. It is true that the University Clinical Centre has drawn up an opinion, but in particular said that the vast majority of the articles refer to the subject, which is outside medical and professional questions, and they have only commented on those words that have such connotation. It is therefore necessary to understand the University Clinical Centre why it had concerns about the elimination or eradication of occupational and non-professional diseases for asbestos exposure. Here is the emphasis on what the problems are when it is possible to identify them or not in the same way as occupational diseases. And now just one last comment. The government also rejects the law because it predicts that the problem should be addressed within the framework of a comprehensive system of providing state aid to people affected by environmental pollution. Too late, revered government, that's an attractive excuse for hair. We will oppose the proposed decision by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u80	Yes, Mrs. Shirca procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Excuse me, I have a procedural proposal that I'd like you to listen to. Today, a large number of members, members of the union, who have been collecting signatures to support and also participated in the drafting of this law, have come to Ljubljana. It is the Union of Asbestos Patients of Slovenia. They came to Ljubljana together with an association and a college from across the border. They wanted to attend the meeting because somehow today the rhythms were still blocked at the entrance, including warnings that they could not get in because of their personal luggage, but their personal luggage are such materials as their personal materials and carry them with them, of course, with no bad intentions. I would ask you to decide to wait so long to do this procedure with the doorman to clear out how much and what they can carry onto the balcony because if they have already missed a piece of this point, then it is only right that they are present at least below. They've been preparing for this meeting for a series of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u82	Would you like Mr. Sok? Do you have a procedural proposal? I'll answer first. Mrs Shirca, according to the Rules of Procedure, this would be really strange, and I really can't say yes. Since we are continuing our meeting, never, as far as I recall, have we, at least in this term, interrupted the meeting or waited for visitors to the National Assembly. Therefore, I cannot agree with you on this proposal. But I understand that, and I understand that, and you believe me, that I understand that you want to be with me. It's just that maybe a little organization is questionable. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'd like to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u84	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u85	Yes, I have a procedural proposal. My proposal is in the opposite direction. To continue this meeting. For I understand, however, both in Novi Slovenija and in Novi Slovenija, that this is a very delicate issue which must be resolved by the Slovenian Parliament. Not that we need cameras here that are recording this, that are carrying it and, of course, an appropriate auditorium. This is the wrong way, Mrs Shirca, if you have prepared this matter for this reason. So we have to solve the problem, but not the others do.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u86	Mr Sok, there is no debate or debate on the procedural proposal. As you know, I've made my own decision as chairman. Here you go, Mrs. Squire. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal, too. You decided not to interrupt the meeting for five minutes. But it is extremely incorrect, allow me to explain, extremely incorrect, that Mr. Sok allows himself to talk about his awareness of how pressing the problem is and important for admission to the National Assembly on the fact that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u88	Mrs. Zginer, I'd like to make a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u89	The Parliamentary Chamber is empty. [[...]] My hand to the heart, however, I propose a procedural proposal, allow, Madam President, to suspend the meeting for so long that the Chamber will be filled, because it is an extremely pressing issue, which is obviously also aware of by the coalition Members, and so perhaps they will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you very much, ma'am. [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u91	in the voting, voted in a different manner than their instructions [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Squiner. I listened this morning to who was justifiably absent from today's session. Therefore, I cannot take a break from the Rules of Procedure in order to fill the Chamber with Members. Here you go, Mr. Friend. Do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u93	Yeah, sure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u94	Not the same [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u95	I would like to ask you a very respectful question: On the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure, honourable Presidents, did you answer as you did, Mrs Majdi Shirca? That's one. And secondly, you know, the time for those who come to the hall today is not acceptable. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you very much. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u97	That's it. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u98	Mr. Friend. [[...]] As I can see, members of the union are coming to the hall, headed by Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u99	I'm happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I continue: Mr Ljubo Germič, presented the views of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues and others present! At the LDS Club, we have always followed with great attention the liberal democracy of Slovenia and tried to find the basic solutions related to asbestos, both with the content that prohibited production and transport, while at the same time talking about how to help those who suffered the consequences of asbestos exposure. We voted against the law, which is now in force for two simple reasons. The first reason was that the law was not in line with the public concerned, so there was no social dialogue that would allow such solutions, which would, of course, respond correctly to the problems that those who have suffered today as a result of working with asbestos or exposure to asbestos have also suffered. The second reason, of course, is that the solutions in this law were not those that might have our support. We could not agree at the very beginning that we have the same cause, so we have asbestos that causes disease, which can also lead to serious illness and even to death. And that when someone worked with asbestos, we separate such people from those people who had the same consequences of exposure to asbestos, suffered the same consequences, and that law excludes them. Here, in the Liberal Democracy, we firmly believe that one of the fundamental values that must be respected is the principle of justice, equality, and, of course, those who have suffered the same consequences because of the same cause must also have the same rights. That is how we have today, in this mandate, I am sure, the last opportunity to correct the content of the law that we have adopted in 2006 and to respect this principle of fairness in order to take account of all those who have been harmed in any way by exposure to asbestos. Of course, we are also reminded of this by various documents of the interested public, and I have before me a petition from the Asbestos Syndicate, which speaks of the fact that the current text of the law in force does not respond adequately to the problems that all those who have been exposed to asbestos and therefore have certain consequences today. They warn us that they want to deal with current claims for the verification of occupational diseases due to the exposure of asbestos to an interdisciplinary group of experts. They warn us that there is no ongoing processing of requests on the content of the communication and design on the Interdepartmental Commission. And they suggest that we take seriously the question of what is the composition of the interdisciplinary group, because they even propose their replacement, because of some conflict in working in this group. When we talk about the problem of the definition of the environment, is it not enough that we have an interdisciplinary group to identify the causal link between asbestos exposure and disease and the disease is then identified within the interdisciplinary group? If this is how we speak or the border will be a forest, a river or a road, of course, in this case we are reluctant to take a substantive professional approach to this issue and such a result of avoiding this serious approach is also the work of the Government in this mandate, which has never wanted to face this issue in a substantive, concrete and in-depth manner. How can we say today that this law is not a suitable basis for further consideration, and we are clearly reminded that there is no representative of the sick in the Interdepartmental Commission who can defend the rights of those who already have certain health problems and that they cannot defend their interests, so they also warn us that this is an ongoing treatment. How can we say that a register is not needed to register those exposed to asbestos and will be able to suffer certain consequences in the future due to the long incubation period. And how can we say that rights under this law are not justified by heirs who, in the very process of communication, would tragically also experience death and would not pass this right on to heirs. Therefore, at the LDS, as before, we will support the content that solves these problems and therefore we will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u103	Dear Presidents, fellow Members and Members, all present!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u104	Mr. Sok, let me interrupt. Dear visitors, ours and strangers who attend the meetings of the National Assembly. You have come to the National Assembly as visitors to listen to the debate of members of the Slovenian National Assembly on asbestos issues. Please, if you do not use posters, not other things, because this is not a custom in the National Assembly. Please, if you will listen to my request and listen calmly to the debate. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I also welcome everyone on the balcony and somehow I also understand that you are also trying to contribute to the debate in this way. However, I would like to say in the introduction that asbestososis and everything related to this problem is so complex in nature that it cannot be resolved by correcting a few articles or the proposed novel. The proposed novel, submitted to Parliament by Mrs Majda Širca, is both considered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as by the professions of the University Clinical Centre, unfit for further consideration. Such a decision was also taken by the home committee. The so-called asbestos problem should be dealt with consistently, not by the amendment of the applicable asbestos law, which regulates the rights of those patients with asbestos who have been exposed to professional exposure, but by a comprehensive system which provides state aid to the population whose health impact is due to the effects of pollution of the environment under the influence of industry, transport or other environmental problems. So there are two completely different approaches. The proposal, as tabled by Majda Shirca, extends the content of the umbrella law by including in the group of beneficiaries of compensation for asbestos sickness also people living in the vicinity of companies that have processed or stored asbestos or asbestos products and who have been diagnosed with asbestos-derived disease. The inadequacy of the novel can be concluded from the very name of the law to which the amendment is submitted. For we are talking about the law on eliminating the consequences of work, to emphasize once again, working with asbestos, this is the title of the current law. Thus, the law does not govern the status or entitlement of compensation to people who have been sick by reason of it could be said to be passive, secondary exposure to asbestos. The law speaks of the consequences of work, so it cannot define nonprofessional diseases. And this was clearly pointed out by her letter to us by the profession, the University Clinical Center; this letter was also received by all of you. It should be noted that occupational diseases are both legally and professionally treated separately from non-professionals, both because of their significantly increased intensity and the actual health consequences, not only in Slovenia, but in all Member States of the European Union. The proposed novel does not also include what is essential for proper financial planning - it does not include an assessment of the financial consequences that the law would have. We also lack more concrete data on the actual impact of asbestos on the population around us, and we also lack data on how many people have ever been affected by the consequences of unprofessional exposure to asbestos. We believe that these numbers are necessary if we are to deal with this area in a realistic, correct and professional way and once and for all to resolve this issue. The new law before us also has many other undefined concepts. Above all, there is an unspecified area, which is the area around the plants where they worked with asbestos or where asbestos was stored. So this is completely unclear and indefinable in this law, and this is also pointed out by the University Clinical Center. The question of heirs is thus dealt with quickly in this novel, and, of course, the legacy to compensation should be more clearly and decisively defined. Finally, I would like to stress once again that in Novi Slovenija, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we will try to resolve this area, but of course attract expertise and by means of the profession to resolve the issue of all those who have not suffered from asbestos professionally, but their disease is the result of contact with asbestos. This time we cannot vote for this novel in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable visitors! Throughout the long years of its presence, asbestos production and use have left many of the extremely sensitive issues that we owe to these people for the sake of their well-being. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find that in recent years there has been quite a lot of progress in this area and that many issues have been resolved more or less effectively for the benefit of people who have been exposed to asbestos. However, there is still considerable work to be done in this area. However, the resolution of these issues is extremely sensitive and the approach to this must be very interdisciplinary, according to the Slovenian People's Party. We are of the opinion that a good analysis of the situation suggested by the implementation of the existing law must first be carried out, in addition to the Government, including those institutions that face as genuine and professionally as possible the various issues raised by asbestos production and use, such as the Institute of Medicine and Sport at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. In any case, there must be at least three ministries, in our opinion: the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Health, which must work together with as much coordination as possible. These ministries must be the ones to prepare proposals for appropriate amendments and to supplement the existing law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, as will be the result of the analysis of the situation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not support the proposal for a law coming from individual Members, with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Širca, because these sensitive issues are all too partial and also unconceptual, given the very design of the existing law, but it does not offer solutions to address these issues in a different systemic way. In addition, we reject the approach to solving such difficult and sensitive issues right before the elections. The Slovenian People's Party's Group opposes the bill, but we expect the future government to prepare an appropriate proposal for amendments at the beginning of the mandate and to complete the law now in force and to send it to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u109	Mr President, I think that the 20 Members and Members, as far as we are in the National Assembly at this time, are not hindered if those who are finally able to arrive at the Chamber express their concern in a non-verbal manner. They have 5,000 signatures behind them, and I don't mind if they warn me that asbestos is killing and that the state is silent about it. At the same time, at the outset, if I continue my previous presentation that it is no longer the same law, but that the law that we have brought into the National Assembly has a conceptual shift. We are talking about the law on remedying the consequences of exposure to asbestos, not in the workplace. That's why all the alibis that you represent here are in place when you're looking for excuses, why would they, for my unreasonable reasons, reject it? Your heart is closed, your mind is conductive, and maybe these are the reasons you're looking for alibis. The union did not get a word on the parental committee itself, but she received the word of a representative of the government or of the Clinical Institute for Medicine, which, at the last minute, brought the last second very, very, very much, to my mind, inconclusively explain why the law is not good. And that. Signed under the opinion of the Medical Institute, which everyone likes to quote today is indicative, Mrs Fikfak says that it is not possible to adopt such solutions as to cure diseases due to pollution of the environment in such a way as to talk about those who have become ill outside the working environment, or those who have become ill in the working environment. One, it says, has to be measured like this, the other has to be measured differently. But let's see what he says, say, February 2008 this same lady in an interview explaining 'the silent killers who are still threatening. That's the title of the article. He says: "At least 80% of patients with mesothelioma were exposed to asbestos in our country and in the world once in their lives, and it was not necessarily a high dose. That's enough, even once. Usually these people remember that they helped either replace the roof in the family circle, they could have had husbands who worked in the factory and brought the fibers home." That wasn't on the job. Or they're in some other way that I don't mention others, but in a five-minute performance, I'm not going to point out any other quotes. At the same time, the Clinical Institute also says that early retirement of patients who do not, in principle, reject it, but do not advise, and do not support the possibility of early retirement, because then people who go to peace get drunk and have problems in life. No one forces them to retire prematurely, but they may be able to cope with such severe illness. Moreover, they say that employees should be protected so that they cannot be forgiven at all. Such and other interpretations within this, as I say, are not acceptable for the last second without a discussion of the text which is now serving as an apology. Not even the government's arguments. For if we wait for a law that will, in its entirety, solve the consequences of environmental pollution, then we will never come to an end. The same was true of the law that cured the consequences in the valley of Mežíží, presented and filed by Paul Gantar. Of course, you rejected it, even in waiting for a law that will fully address the consequences of transport pollution and other problems. We believe that it is right for this law to come into force so that it does not separate people from those who have been sick here and those who have been sick elsewhere. This silent killer, as they all say, is not a choice or a working environment, not a different environment, not people. As elsewhere in the world, the country should listen to this [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The last option is today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Government Representative, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished visitors! In working with asbestos or, rather, eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos, the duplicity of the government is very great. Time is not on the side of those who are sick of asbestos, better said, time, we know that those who need to remain today in the only way they have left are legal judicial protection, and that time is running out for these people. I ask all those who today claim that this is not necessary to confirm after the re-examination, as the proposer proposes. What is the fault of the children who were near the kindergartens of a factory? I come alone from Primorska, where Salonite has also polluted this environment for years and years. What are these kids guilty of being in this kindergarten? Or the kids at school? Or the inhabitants who had a parallel, close proximity to this fearsome factory, their habitat? It is the country's fault and, in fact, the country should assume this responsibility and respectfully also address these consequences, which for those who seek justice will never be fully eliminated, because money cannot restore health. And to compare to all those who say that you want to solve an integral similar or problem in another marriage, why you have not already done so. It is abominable that the money from this budget can be found for Brussels, which demanded a change in the administrative building of the new Parliament, new business premises, because the old building contained asbestos. That's what you found the money for. He also went from Slovenia to Brussels to build a new building. For our citizens who have become sick and will then, tragically, pay for it because they have become ill at the expense of the state, but there is no hearing and no money. It is also quite incomprehensible that money can be found for others simply by means of a quick procedure. For example, for some bereaved patriots or church institutions, we can quickly adopt law and open up a budget small. And what do the proponents propose? They are proposing a more honest inter-departmental commission, in which we would also have members, and we do not allow them to do so, or by a majority vote for a decision such as this, the mother's working body has decided as it is, and you will also prevent it. They also require the replacement of members of interdisciplinary groups who act as they do. On this market, it is already a constant practice to essentially work for money and bribes. And the government says it would make more sense to solve the problem within a comprehensive system. Then why didn't she propose it? Why doesn't he do it now? Probably because they got sick in most cases out there from the "red" municipalities and the government is in a stepmotherly mood against this environment and everyone can die there, because the benefits of them are not, or voices come to the other side. It's sad, you know. For the government, there has been no amendment to this law, which the opposition has proposed so far, is good. That's what we have to say. There were attempts, there was great effort from different parties, but government parties always found an excuse. In comparison, state-owned companies, whose majority ownership is a country, are still working with asbestos today. These are Slovenian railways. And it's a shame that we sold the locomotives to Italians, and on these locomotives we got rid of them, or cleaned up the asbestoss, and handed them over to the Italians who drive these locomotives today, and our locomotives still contain tons of asbestos. It's a shame for a country that doesn't respect this law. The speakers in front of me referred to the law on remedying the consequences of the marriage. Then why don't these consequences come to an end? Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the applicant is right and we will not support this negative decision. We will support the law, and I hope that there will be a sufficient number of votes in this Chamber because of great interest. I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor, on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear guests and guests, distinguished colleagues and, last but not least, the distinguished Madam Secretary at the Ministry! To talk about duality, my colleague spoke before me about duality - I still remember in February or April 2006, when the "noble" fellow Member of the language on the scale was to legislate injustices in our society. Because we have divided people into first-class and second-class people, although I do not like to talk about it, because the people who are sick for asbestos, are all first-class citizens and citizens who deserve to be heard and cared for by our country. But the injustices have become legal. And if the "noble" Member allowed it, the law we are discussing today would be in the parliamentary procedure one year earlier. So once again, talking about duality, in other words, means how cheap words sometimes are. Asbestos, people are dying. I'll tell you one story, and it's a real story. A true story about the government's minimum, forced by the Government in 2006 with the support of one opposition member. A person with a name and last name, unfortunately already deceased, gets an official medical notice that only a few months of life lie ahead of him. With the help of the Association of asbestos Patients of Slovenia, they initiate a procedure for the production of medical expertise, which is a condition for the exercise of the right to compensation. Because a person’s medical condition has deteriorated greatly, it is not possible to have a medical examination. They ask their relatives to be examined at the home of the patient, but the health care home, the doctor refuses to check at the home of the patient. I'm afraid the patient's already retired today. He hasn't received a checkup. He didn't see the rights he was entitled to under the law. He didn't even see any compensation. But what is more or less tragic is that, despite the fact that the procedures for the exercise of rights began at the end of 2005, at the beginning of 2006, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is responsible for the resolution of applications and the validation of rights for individuals under the law, there is no response to a specific case in 2008. And you know what they're referring to at the Ministry because they haven't released their applications today? That, in the meantime, it was not for the President of the committee responsible that the people who decided on these matters were in the hospital, that they were in the middle of annual leave and so on. For more than two years, one role at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is being resolved. And these people have only a few months to live. Also because, or this is one of the reasons why legislative changes are necessary. The law, which, as has already been said, has reduced rights to a minimum, does not take place in practice in such a form. The fact is, asbestos has been killing for decades. Not just the workers. He also kills other people who have come into contact with asbestos. It works cancerously in the human body. Latentna's home is long, up to 40 years old. In Slovenia about one third of buildings are still covered with asbestos. Between 1946 and 1996, 670,000 tons of asbestos were imported into Slovenia. We still have the "wild" asbestos dumps today. And neither the Ministry of Environment nor Space nor the competent inspectorates control this. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When some refer to unspecified financial consequences or a system law that may eventually come into some uncertain future, you know, today, we are also talking about health today. Health is our wealth. It is immoral for a man who has been deprived of this wealth to be further deprived of his dignity. We'll support the law in the Lip Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-27-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow, on Wednesday 28.5.2008, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you.
