ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On September 2, 2008, Mag died. Mr Marjan Šifrer, Member of the National Assembly for the period 1996-2000. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Janez Janša and Mag. Stefan Tisley. I invited the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by Dr. Erik Kerševan, and Mr. Borut Pahor, the candidate for the President of the Government of Slovenia, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Election Commission, the representative of the Council of Justice, the Ombudsman of Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik and the candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman, Mr. Tonet Dolčič and Mr Jernej Rovšk, to the 3rd item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda, so we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal for an extension of the agenda. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by reading the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, the reduced procedure, and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Members, the reduced procedure. You received the proposal by letter of 6.11.2008. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check their voting devices. The orange light must burn on the right side of the card inserted. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, a reduced procedure. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 Members and Members voted against 2. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as the 6th item of the agenda on Tuesday 11 November 2008. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending the Law on Members, a reduced procedure. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 53 Members and Members voted against 25. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 7 of the agenda on Tuesday 11 November 2008. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference, with the additions adopted. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the agenda for the first extraordinary meeting has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the President of the Government. On 3 November 2008, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed that Mr Borut Pahor be elected Prime Minister. Does the representative of the Bureau want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore give the floor to the Prime Minister's candidate, Mr Borut Pahor, to present the Government's programming designs, in accordance with paragraph 226 of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I ask this high house to trust me with a mandate to form and run a new government. I am fully aware of all the responsibilities entrusted to me by this difficult task. I am determined to justify your trust and the expectation of our people you represent here. Now it is nothing more important for me than for all of us to be able to overcome the coming obstacles and to speedily continue the journey of Slovenia to the circle of the most developed and solidarity countries in the world. I am aware that this is a very great ambition in the face of the current situation. But this is a way of thinking about how to make problems an opportunity. Last but not least, this ambition has brought Slovenia from the country in the last two decades in a deep economic, political and social crisis into a single country that has successfully concluded its presidency of the European Union. This experience gives us all the necessary self - confidence to look to the future with due concern, but certainly not with fear, but with courage and optimism. The high house, therefore, the magnificence, not the trifle, is possible only under two conditions! Firstly, we have clear objectives for the future. And secondly, we can create the necessary political and social unity to achieve them. I consider it my job to contribute to this as best I can. Slovenia needs a development agreement, it needs some development consensus on our long-term ambitions and, of course, the necessary strategies to achieve them gradually. Any different conduct in the current situation would lead to a lack of clear priorities and would lead us to completely infertile debates and disputes about things that are not essential for our future. There's one thing that seems essential to me. The economic uncertainty we face is not the responsibility of the previous Government. Before her, we got together with the world we belong to. Thus, there is a danger of wasting time and energy to accuse one another of what is behind this developmental consensus and who is not. That seems very important to me. It is quite clear that all our thoughts must now be focused on Slovenia's strategic actions to solve the problems that are the result of the financial and economic situation in the developed world that we belong to. To be very honest with you, dear colleagues and colleagues, I personally have many more questions than answers. Well, I guess I'll say two. First time. That the situation could not be addressed by a passive social policy, but by an active development policy alone. Another time. That the answers to questions that concern us and the whole world cannot be expected from others, but we must look for them ourselves. We also think of Slovenia as a society of originality in this respect. Now is the time to show all our ingenuity. We have enough knowledge, we have enough talent, we have enough creativity to work together on this project. The task of the Government is, as I see it, to create the necessary social and political atmosphere to somehow connect all this creative energy into a creative whole. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! While the current situation and the increased concern of our people have reduced to some extent their expectations of a rapid improvement in living standards, they expect it to be better. That's an understandable expectation. Together, we must understand that it is not possible to divide, more than we create, and that Slovenia can only create more if it is better than competition. I consider the competitiveness and good condition of the Slovenian economy to be the backbone of our development and social security. The task of the future government is to create conditions in the present situation without interfering with the business decisions of individual economic operators, it is imperative to strongly support the healthy part of the economy, in particular the export, to consider measures for the part that is in difficulty and to strengthen the active employment policy. Creating the conditions for opening up new jobs, as far as possible for those with higher added value, is probably the only long-term response to the increase in the dismissal of employees, which we expect in particular next year. This is only one reason that, if you trust me with a mandate today, I have set out to start a broad social dialogue immediately after the government has been established, in which the government, together with its partners, will seek and formulate the necessary arrangements to ensure the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy so that the burden of this will be socially proportionate and sustainable. This dialogue, which, at least as I think, will go beyond the economic and social world and within which social and intergenerational solidarity is to be strengthened, will, at least as far as I am concerned, if you trust me today, last until we all rightly conclude that we have overcome the main problems we are looking forward to in particular in the coming year, otherwise the social dialogue will be a permanent part of the government's work. For the development and modernisation of Slovenia, it is crucial to ensure a dynamic balance between economic, employment, social and environmental policies. And this balance must be based on the principle of balance and coherence between key policies. In order to increase the competitiveness of the economy, as you can see, I am focusing on the importance of promoting scientific and technological development, as this will allow us not only to overcome financial and economic uncertainty but also to achieve developmental balance at a higher level. The fundamental objective of the development and progress of individuals and society, as well as the source of wealth and economic power, is to build a knowledge society. Knowledge and creativity are essential in preparing people for a better and richer life and for the challenges of globalisation. Although the government's plans in the various areas of the National Assembly are usually presented after the election of the President of the Government and the presentation of his team in the National Assembly, allow me to present, despite the fact that he has invited the President of the National Assembly to speak, the Council is concentrated, and, of course, on a superficial basis, to present the main directions of our thinking, and only in those areas which I think are the most important at this moment, which I consider to be central. And please accept this without underestimating others that I will not specifically mention. Public finances first. For sustainable public finances, not only in good economic circumstances, but also when walking occurs in economic growth, we must follow public financial rules. This means that we are predicting a stable growth in government expenditure, which does not depend on fluctuations in fiscal revenues. Thus, at a time when revenues are spent, we can save the surpluses in public finances that are needed for the time when incomes are growing slower without, therefore, having to increase the tax burden, which is also our direction. In order to apply these two fiscal rules, for example, we need such a policy of public spending, which gives a significant emphasis to the quality of the money spent, because it is our common money, the money of taxpayers, which must be spent in quality. This means that, for the money we have spent on individual programmes, we also ensure the quality results of these programmes. With a view to a fairer and more robust distribution of the tax burden, we plan to amend the income legislation, to improve the situation of the minimum income groups of the taxpayers and to better classify the taxpayers by tax grade. To improve the income situation of the most vulnerable groups, we will explore the possibility of correcting the general tax relief. We will do so by slowly bringing it closer to the annual amount of the minimum net salary and in the situation ahead of us, exploring the possibility of a faster and more favourable regulation of the housing problem by re-establishing a special housing facility. In order to attract additional capital, in particular good and promising production programmes, we will introduce additional incentive tax measures to reinvest capital gains. They will aim to invest directly in new investments and the programme in particular in the field of high technologies. In order to promote the stability of the financial markets, we will examine the taxation of the annual interest received on bank deposits for the time being of financial uncertainty, as defined by the criteria of the Bank of Slovenia. We commit ourselves to the gradual and transparent withdrawal of the state from enterprises that have remained socially owned in the process of reshaping social property, particularly where this is considered appropriate in terms of their long-term development. In view of the financial situation, the economic uncertainty of the government will act as a good host as a good master and will examine all alternatives and measures in this regard. We will work to strengthen the power and position of independent institutions, which are essential for the functioning of the rule of law in the field of state administration, the economy and in the field of ensuring the rights and interests of citizens. The transfer of certain supervisory functions of the State to independent supervisory institutions will take place. It is our idea to establish a single agency for the supervision and regulation of the financial system within the Bank of Slovenia in the area of the financial system. The economy. We plan to promote economic growth by co-financing investments in technology parks, incubators, scientific and advisory work and, of course, education. This will also guide economic development policy, with a focus on the development of the regions. In doing so, we will combine public and private investment and, at certain times, we will withdraw from these projects by privatisation or we will take full responsibility to private capital. In order to ensure the high productivity and efficiency of enterprises, the state will invest budgetary and other resources in development and high technology in enterprises, in the creation of enterprise skills technology, that is in research and development organisations, technology parks and incubators. In doing so, it will encourage individuals with tax incentives and the promotion of public-private partnerships. We will put in place measures to increase the effectiveness of the financial system in financing mainly for emerging and rapidly growing technologically advanced enterprises. The basic principle of policy action will be the subsidiarity under which the co-financing country will support venture capital funds. At the same time, it will promote the development of more risky financial instruments adapted to such undertakings and provide favourable and institutional conditions for their development. Entrepreneurship. We will pay great attention to the establishment and growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in accordance with the principles of the European Charters, which encourage small businesses. This will facilitate access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthen the legal and business environment to ensure timely payment of business and introduce measures to address financial non-discipline. In particular, we will encourage and open up small businesses in exploiting the opportunities offered by the Single Market. Among the more than 100,000 such in Slovenia, there is a lot of developmental and highly innovative potential that we intend to promote with appropriate financial incentives, tax policy and education. We are committed to this High Council if it entrusts me today with a mandate to develop the financial mechanisms of the state financial institution of the Slovenian and development banks, which will act as a specialised financial institution, but under the full supervision of the bank supervisor. The concentration of capital, financial resources, expertise will allow for expected synergies in the areas of preparation and implementation of important programmes and projects to be adopted by the Government and the ministries of the field, and operational implementation has been carried out through this institution. It is a matter of uniting the financial incentives of the country for SMEs, co-financing of rapidly growing technological advanced enterprises for large economic infrastructure projects, financial cooperation and mediation between Slovenia and the European Investment Bank and international development cooperation. However, I am well aware that economic growth in itself does not exclude the objective of economic policy. For us, such a development is important, enabling a better life for all. Growth must therefore come from higher productivity, it must come from greater efficiency, which, on the one hand, allows the Slovenian economy to be more competitive and, on the other hand, must lead to the emergence of a richer and more solidarity society. That is why, at least so far as I intend, all employees will benefit more from economic development, which is why we will accelerate the development of fundamental forms of economic democracy, such as the participation of employees in management, the internal ownership of employees and the participation of workers in profits. Come in. As far as science and technological development is concerned. With a view to strengthening economic development, we will work for the excellence of knowledge as a condition for skipping and releasing a business initiative. We will strengthen the processes in which Slovenia becomes the intersection of knowledge, ideas, creativity, innovation and economic flows. That is why we have set ourselves the goal of creating a knowledge society based on quality education, excellence in knowledge, technology and innovation. This is how we want to ensure the sovereign involvement of Slovenia in the global division of labour, with economic growth, in my view, based on high and knowledge of demanding and environmentally friendly, and less on increasing the intensity of work. We will strengthen the fast and nourished scientific and innovative and developmental charge. We will try to increase its effectiveness, create conditions for excellence in higher education and scientific activities. We will choose some interdisciplinary research programmes that will be able to work equally with new infrastructures, with their centres in the European Union or to compete for this status themselves. I think that we are all working together in this high house to strengthen and develop excellent universities and other higher education institutions. In higher education, international integration, the design of centres of excellence, the integration of research with the study process and independent national and external checks and quality assurance will need to be promoted in order to improve efficiency and quality through appropriate measures. It is necessary to build on quality programmes, academic staff and universities and higher education institutions. Knowledge, information and communication technologies and financial incentives will need to be fully linked. We plan to introduce systematic support for the comprehensive functioning of research infrastructure centres into research and development organisations. We will promote interinstitutional pooling of research and development in centres of excellence, where smaller companies should also be involved. About the environment. We are aware that sustainable environmental policy and, of course, economic management of nature and our environment are key to long-term development. We will raise the quality of life and Slovenia's competitive advantages and fulfil its responsibilities in the global world with respect for borders, environmental burdens of space and the transition to low [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the company. [[...]] We will promote the efficient use of our own renewable energy sources, priority wooden biomass, solar, wind energy, waste use, but in naturally undisputed areas, in a rational, environmentally friendly way. It is therefore necessary to actively involve research institutions and to encourage industry to invest more in alternative energy sources and to reduce public energy consumption. The public sector will try to be an example of sustainable behaviour through green procurement and through mandatory annual programmes and energy reduction targets. It's about social policy. Broadly speaking, we want to create an inclusive society that will not leave anyone behind, in which they will primarily count their knowledge and abilities. A successful welfare society is only possible with an effective country that allows individuals to take independent care of their own social security and the social security of their family and to ensure greater social cohesion and inclusion of the most vulnerable groups. We are aware that safe employment and reliable income are the best factors in social security. We will advocate that quality education, public health, social protection, the provision of older people, culture and housing, sport and other public services will be more accessible to all. Raising the quality of employment requires improving working conditions, greater health and safety at work, good wages for good work that enable people to live decent lives, minimum wages that go beyond the poverty threshold, lower pensions that provide decent lives for full-time pensioners. We will strive for greater competitiveness and employment of young people in the labour market. Finally, but not least about security and foreign policy. Both at the strategic level are determined by the National Assembly and the Government will strive to achieve its objectives. In this sense, if you give me a mandate for its composition today, the Government will have the continuity of Slovenian security and foreign policy. I think it is right to touch only one topic in this area, which I believe would be asked after it in the discussion below. This is, of course, a relationship with neighbouring and friendly Croatia. The current Prime Minister, who is unfortunately absent today, rightly, has been consulted several times after the elections on the situation of financial uncertainty and on the Slovenian position on opening and closing the negotiating chapters of Croatia with the European Union. Let me be clear. I support the decisions of the current Government on this issue because the Government has had a government and the Government has legitimate reasons for this. As far as the open issues of establishing a border between neighbours on land and sea are concerned, I would like the Mixed Diplomatic Commission to complete its work as soon as possible and present to the governments of both countries an alternative to the final regulation of the border between the countries and also other open issues. At least for me, but I think that there was also a consensus between the presidents or the presidents of the parties at the last meeting of the President of the Government, it is crucial that between the principles to be adopted by both governments and, of course, at the end of both parliaments, for a possible arbitrator, Slovenia insists on the principle of fairness. Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The fact that I have not touched all areas of the work of the new government in the introduction does not mean that any of the tasks that await us would be underestimated. If, for example, I have not touched on rural development, the role of agriculture, not only as an economic sector, but in particular as one of the holders of Slovenian national identity, I have not done so for underestimation. You will be able to find out about this in the hirings and then in the debate in the National Assembly. If, for example, I have not touched the culture in particular, then it should be sufficient for this introduction to know that it is the foundation of our national sovereignty and that we must also see through its perspective the opportunity for Slovenia to strengthen its national character under the conditions of an open society. The tasks of the State in ensuring the conditions for the universal development of our national communities are specifically enshrined in the coalition agreement. In the previous term, the National Assembly ordered the new government to appoint a minister without a licence for Slovenians around the world. Of course, it seems to any possible mandate-holder to increase the cabinet is uncomfortable, but I would like to emphasise two. First time. There is a large part of our national body living abroad, and the fact that the competent minister will work particularly hard to strengthen multilateral cooperation is the right decision. It's the right decision. And a second time. If you trust me with a mandate, I intend to propose to this position a person who, in my view, may at least provoke universal approval not only between Slovenians at home but also among Slovenians around the world. I will endeavour to strengthen public confidence in the rule of law institutions and to carry out their work in the framework of their competences without political interference. It is the duty of the State to ensure the conditions for this, and of course their independence as well. In this framework, the question of human rights is also, in some ways, a fundamental one of them is the right to our personal, human dignity. The government will do everything in its power to create the necessary social atmosphere in Slovenia, where solidarity, tolerance and co-existence will prevail. Personally, I think, in addition to coordinating key policies, including the reform of the health system, in particular with the presidents or senior representatives of all parliamentary parties and the National Assembly, that we should consult on three important things and also try to work them out with you. First time. Complete the harmonisation and adoption of two laws that deal with half-time history so that we do not bury our dead by voting. Let this be our contribution to the national reconciliation. I don't understand this reconciliation as changing history, but changing the future. If we want to raise one modern patriotism, especially in the youth generation, this is probably almost a condition for it. Another time. I want to continue my work in drafting legislation to create regions, so that 2/3 of the majority will be reached in this high house and thus the establishment of landscapes as an instrument for eliminating developmental imbalances. And the third time. What I have already said about security and foreign policy will not be made any important decisions without prior consultation with the relevant representatives of all parliamentary parties, and in particular not without a thorough consultation of the Government in the committee responsible and in the National Assembly. Finally, let me say again what I stressed before the President of the country when he entrusted me with this candidacy: we are ultimately the most important people. Our knowledge, our talent, our creativity. The role of the state is to create conditions for all of us to have equal opportunities to develop these talents and creativity. As I said to the President of the country, I will also say to you - although I may later be given certain indications that this is not the case - but I am a policy of consensus. And as I told the President of the State, I am out of patience here and there only when anyone talks about ours and yours over and over again. Especially in the times ahead, I don't think we can afford this destructive division. I think we need each other. And in the end, the honourable Mr President, the high house, each of us as an individual, especially in the situations that await us, can hardly do anything, and we all together can do almost anything! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u3	I thank the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, for presenting the Government's programming designs. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Voters and voters decided to support the changes in the autumn national elections. We take responsibility for the changes over the next four years consciously and seriously because the expectations of voters and voters are high. We will try to justify this confidence because we are aware that victory in elections is only the beginning of hard work in a mandate that will not depend solely on the internal political situation in our country, but on the composition of our common mosaic of the future will also be affected by the global situation. As a party that has adopted the highest percentage of votes in the elections, we have the honour and responsibility in Slovenian history for the first time that the President of the Government, the President of the Party, represents the values and ideas of the family of European Social Democrats, assumes. Borut Pahor is a long-standing politician who has performed many functions at national and international level. For example, he presided over the National Assembly and achieved that the Institute enjoyed a great reputation in public. His personal and political leadership can be summed up in the word of cooperation and the search for the best solutions, even when those who are called upon to engage in a joint dialogue reject or even personally insult him. This has been demonstrated in the previous mandate in the call for the Partnership for Development and in many other calls for unifying views or seeking better solutions on important national issues where a high level of social consensus is needed. This has also been demonstrated in the current negotiations on the coalition agreement and on the staffing composition of the new government, where it has proved that it is willing to talk to everyone more than once, because it did not want the quality of the decisions to suffer from rush decisions. The proposed mandate-holder, Borut Pahor, is coherent and constructive. Politics understands and behaves in it as a statesman who always and above all puts the interests of the State and its inhabitants and residents first. In addition to its rich experience in Slovenian politics, it is also characterized by daily monitoring of the situation in European policy, which is an integral part of successful governance in many areas. We believe that the right person to assume the responsibility of managing the government is at a time when we monitor daily information on the growing financial crisis in the world as we monitor forecasts of the drought of economic growth and numerous forecasts of the increase in unemployment and the threat of poverty to more and more people. All of this is a situation that requires a leader who is prepared for a thorough discussion to find common solutions to the difficult issues in our development, a leader who understands the social partnership and the importance of dialogue as a way to achieve the high motivation and involvement of people in solving the serious situations in which we are in. It points out many times that this crisis is also an opportunity to find better solutions, and in addition to serious problems for many, which the country needs to tackle in solidarity also the opportunities to improve the situation of Slovenia and the new development initiatives and challenges. Social Democrats and President Borut Pahor prepared and offered the electorate a programme to manage the country on the principle of a good and caring master. This programme, which has also been supported by voters and voters by the majority, has been upgraded by the ideas of coalition partners and certainly constitutes a good basis for the work of the future government. I believe that, on the basis of the programme cooperation achieved by future coalition parties, the mandate-holder will form a high-quality government. The advantage of the future government is therefore the programmatic relationship of the political parties of the coalition, which at the same time enriches the diversity of these partners. Borut Pahor enjoys high public support among people and is respected by political competitors. That is why I am sure he can be trusted to lead our government, and I wish him a successful mandate, in line with people's expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all fellow Members and colleagues! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are having a re-session of the National Assembly, including an important meeting, on the day on which the current President of the Government and Ambassador Janez Janša cannot attend. I wonder if that's the case, whether it's intention or whether it's a process of something that we're so excited to talk about. Let's say we continue to exclude. The procedure for appointing a mandate-holder shall be extremely slow. The reason for this is not a favorable situation or a complication in the National Assembly. Even less so, the opposition, which was not involved in the formation of the government, almost did not comment on them, except that it was warning of slowness. The media are also very tolerant and benevolent. It is noted, however, that there was no time for adequate dynamics in the Presidential Courts and that it was intended to allow the candidate for a mandate, probably in agreement with him, aesthetically to enter into executive policy as beautifully and effectively as possible. The electoral process was entirely dependent on the decisions of the President of the Republic, Dr. Türk. The President set the date of the election, the date of the first constitutional meeting of the National Assembly, set the time and scope of his international activities, set the date and hour of the meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups, and it was the choice and date of the proposed mandate. After the formation of the parliamentary groups on 22 October, the President of the Republic took a week to consult with the parliamentary groups or the leaders of the groups on the same day, in addition to certain other obligations. That day we only received confirmation that Mr Pahor will be proposed as a mandate holder. And it was almost another week before President Türk's decision was formalised and entered the National Assembly. The President's most important decision, the proposal by the Government's mandate holder, who will carry out Slovenia's next mandate, was largely subordinated to other protocol and other obligations, indicating the worst planning and prioritisation in the President's cabinet. In part, it was also a matter of buying time for the candidate for the term of office, since the time-table he had announced was not fulfilled. Not yet. The coalition contract required the adoption of an unexpected number of nuts, more than one and more in the design of a future ministerial form. Following a statement by the President, the Republic has repeatedly heard from the candidate, underlining that these decisions have been taken jointly and in agreement and that this slowness has also been planned together. However, it would be necessary to speed up, as it is necessary to act quickly and effectively, to draw up effective preventive legislation and other rules to secure citizens' deposits and to unblock the lending of the economy, because we no longer have a Government with full powers. This vacuum after the elections would have to be reduced to a minimum due to the situation. Let me remind you, in 2004, we voted the previous term of office 37 days after the elections, this time it will be 48 days after the elections. Before the elections, Mr Pahor wrote to his members, inter alia, "in order for us to succeed this feat, in the notes, 'win', we will need the general mobilisation of all available forces. Therefore, without any hesitation, we must do everything we can to turn the opportunity into our best interests and, in particular, the success of our country's development." That's right then. Mobilisation has succeeded, according to the final figures of the State Election Commission. You won. But now what? Why is it necessary to hesitate, to wait for the victory to be won in its best way, and not to start turning to the benefit of a more successful development of the country, as if you were at some crossroads? However, swift decisions by both the President of the Republic and the candidate for a mandate would be necessary, as complex situations require decisive and fast but appropriate measures to maintain stability and confidence in the Slovenian financial system and to enable companies, large and small, to operate. Despite the threat that the global financial crisis may strike even within Slovenia, it was obvious that the President of the Republic, not the future mandate-holder, was not in a hurry. More than a year ago, inflation struck across our borders, caused by a high rise in food and energy prices in global markets. Our merchants used this further, exploited their monopoly position, calculated the costs of introducing the euro, also maintained the level of margins abroad, reduced them abroad, and the consequences of inflation have been hit mainly by layers with lower income. Janša's government has taken a number of decisions in due time to alleviate the situation of the weaker categories of the population. Then we listened to how Janša’s government reacted too slowly and inappropriately. Now those who have had so many comments on the speed and response and quality of the Janša government proposals are stalling. But now that the new government is gone and gone, Janša's government, although with limited powers, is acting responsibly and professionally. It has drawn up solutions, including a candidate for a mandate, Mr Pahor, and his co-workers, as well as political companions. She didn't rule them out. The Banking Act and the Public Finance Act have already assessed these measures as appropriate in the National Assembly and the team of the most likely future mandate-holder. Yesterday, the government adopted a new package of incentive measures with amendments to the Income Act and the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. General investment incentives are being introduced, tax rates are falling and incentives for research and development are being increased. Of course, I would expect that in his next speech, the mandate-holder would also be defined for these measures, which were adopted yesterday. This is, in our view, an urgent and effective response to the situation that is also coming to our country. The preventive measures proposed by the government of Janša in response to the crisis are therefore very different from those considered by the future coalition. Janša's government has prepared measures to boost economic growth, which is the basis of prosperity, and the future coalition is engaged in and even arguing how to distribute the stock created in this mandate as soon as possible. And that's probably going to happen in almost the entire term. This certainly is not an approach that allows relaxation in the long term, even less optimistic that we are not even talking about development. More important than effective measures by the state, effective measures by the new government are probably the political expectations of the most likely coalition. Above all, the personal positioning of candidates for ministerial posts. Although substantive issues of the coalition treaty are being put at the forefront, most of the talks are of a human nature. Tones give client quotas, sexual representation, ministerial positions of party presidents, number of ministerial posts, the current becoming a key with six hundred names to be replaced, one of which will already be at this meeting. But there are other things that stand out. One of these is that, so far, the kind, kind and indecisive Mr Pahor is portrayed as a firm and insidious negotiator who, with the DeSUS Members, effectively matches the appetites of President DeSUS, his demands for a proportionate number of seats or ministerial seats for his party. The role of the Defence Minister, which is required in these political moments and conditions and Slovenia's involvement in the Euro-Atlantic connection, is not problematic at all, unless there is something more important in the back of the scenes, which has also been missed by the media, such as Euro-Mediterranean. If something like the discipline of President DeSUS had been served by Janša and the Slovenian Democratic Party, they would have been accused of the least dictatorship, disciplining the parties, interfering with the independence of the parties, reviving the stories about cutting the salami, about the umbrella of the SDS, about the pressures of breaking the deadlines, about the fact that the countries and the customers of Janša are hostage to take ownership and possession of the country. If this is happening under the auspices of the Social Democrats and Mr Pahor, this is purely natural and normal. I would also like to point out that we have also witnessed a number of corrections to the statements made by Mr Pahor, the candidate for Commissioner. For example, the candidate spoke of the opposition's agreement on amendments to the media legislation of the Radio Television Act. His fellow Member, Potrč, stated that this was the greatest nonsense. The most likely victim of these changes will probably be the parliamentary channel and direct transfers from the National Assembly. The President of the Social Democrats, Mr Pahor's candidate, recently said that the privileges of Members should be upheld. Its coalition is today putting into the legislative process a amendment to the Law on Members, which extends the range of beneficiaries of these privileges. The expertise and representation of women in legislative and executive positions were important political slogans for both Mr Pahor's candidate and the parties to the so-called left troika. But they're both deep down at the bottom of the client drawers. It is very difficult to plan cooperation with the opposition if statements, if actions change so quickly. There is no stability between words and actions and there is no logical co-existence. We have heard many times this year that Slovenia is better able to lead, that changes are needed, and when you vote on the confidentiality on 19 November you said that you will take responsibility after the elections and not during the term of office. So you have won the elections, and we expect you to take responsibility for that too. The content of the coalition contract has been the most protected secret for a month now, equipped with codes for the detection of the traitor. Here too, the trainee could not avoid methods from past times and shows that there is little trust among future partners. The document, which will be the basis for the work of the new government, thus arises in secret, as if political competition or the opposition had stolen something or abused something. The lack of confidence is strongly present, and the timing of the presentation of the coalition treaty has already moved several times. Change of the calendar is not the first time. This has happened before, for example, in the setting up of a shadow government, in the presentation of the Social Democrats' programme, in the presentation of a potential ministerial team, etc. As far as the coalition contract is concerned, there is also a statement made by Mr Lahovnik. He said that the coalition treaty is concrete where it is not necessary, not where it should be. So one of the members of the future coalition also said. You also brokered a coalition agreement with one of the opposition parties, two of them not. This suggests political segregation, systematic division, separation to yours and ours, even highly emphasized and emerging. May Mr Pahor's candidate communicate what he wants, exactly what is happening in the audience play is the most angry, the separation between ours and yours. He also stated a few days ago that we need each other, but the reality is something completely different. At the beginning of this year you announced that you and your party are excluding the Slovenian Democratic Party from cooperation, including in the coalition, programme cooperation, because we are too different. This sample is repeated after the elections. It's probably gonna be so long before it's all yours. Four years ago, the Slovenian Democratic Party, when it had the opportunity to form a government and propose a mandate holder, invited the government to form a coalition for all parties who came to the National Assembly. And the parties themselves have decided whether or not to accept the invitation. This time it happened different. Only those whom you have defined as yours have been invited to participate, our Slovenian Democratic Party has not been invited. And I don't know what would make Mr. Pahor so angry. The first moves of the new coalition predict that the words are one thing, the actions of something completely different. The appointment of leadership functions in the National Assembly has also undermined both the principle of professionalism and the principle of sexual representation, equal representation. It is likely that the expertise will also be undermined by the appointment of the new Secretary-General of the National Assembly, perhaps elsewhere. And sexual quotas will also be trampled, as it is unlikely that half of the candidates or half of the ministers of the women's sex will be candidates. We will not support the parliamentary group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. This does not mean that we will not support the appropriate actions of the most likely government team to propose a way out of difficult situations, such as development incentives, tax incentives, income reliefs and other measures that will require complex situations. Of course, I am also telling you, Mr candidate for a term of office, that we will also be very careful in our parliamentary group about what is going to happen in the ultra-infra area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Wigel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members. Perhaps my colleague and colleagues in the parliamentary group have appointed me to support the mandate holder in this first performance here because of the maximum amount of gray hair on my head and I understand this as a recognition and it is a great pleasure. The programme presented by the candidate for a mandate reflects the key consensus reached in the not always easy and always very substantive discussions on the new, future government programme. This is a reasonable reason and perhaps the most reasonable reason for such thorough work to be done at the appropriate time. There is no conspiracy to do this long enough and, of course, it is not wrong if we have talked for a long time. Nor is it wrong if we have not reached 100% agreement on each detail of the coalition contract. We are entering this project as customers with our distinctive profile, with the hope that all those who have given us confidence in the elections will be able to achieve as much content as possible in the mandate ahead of us. The mandate will be difficult, the mandate will be burdened with all the global problems facing Slovenia, which are not made at home, which are new to the whole world. When we express our trust in the new Prime Minister, I believe that a large part of this trust is built on the most frequently mentioned characteristics of Mr Pahor, that he is looking for consensus, persistently, patiently, even at a price of sometimes unpleasant doubt, seeking consensus. Allow me to say, as a long-standing observer of parliamentary practices around the world, that, apart from the broad consensus that each Prime Minister is trying to find and secure, he plays an essential role in the effectiveness of cohesion, the substantive linkage and the loyalty of the coalition. This confirms the continued dialectibility of cooperation on such complicated projects as governance of the country. Let me say it impresses me with the candidate's assurance that he will respect this house. Probably impresses all of us. We will do everything we can to ensure that Parliament's opinion is in fact taken into account that Parliament will not be a transmission of executive power. There's been a lot of this in the past. We believe, Mr candidate, that you will form an effective, professional, well-substantiated government of blue people who will be able to communicate with those who agree and with those who are yet to be acquired. I also believe that the opposition will be more optimistic than Mr Tanko was today. I think we're committed to giving her a chance to do that. Mr. Pahor, the Zares Group will support your candidacy and we look forward to working with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Mr. Borut Pahor! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will unitedly support your candidacy. In doing so, we do not want to repeat everything that has been said about the qualities and abilities of the candidate, because he has you undisputedly. Social democracy won the autumn elections and therefore belongs to the mandate holder, who is proposed. Social democracy has drawn up a draft coalition agreement, which has also covered our expectations in many ways, our part of the content of our programme and is in line with its programme and our programme also socially oriented. I must say that it is important in this programme, as well as in the implementation of the candidate, that he is willing to take responsibility and do everything possible to bring this train forward together in the unfortunate times ahead for the benefit of everyone in this country. And that's what's more important than how some of us are trying to evaluate our group as someone who was in the way of continuing efforts to form a government as soon as possible. Everything that our Group has done in this regard has only been intended to speed up this process. I am pleased to say that in our party, in the Executive Committee, a common agreement has been reached within the Group of Members to present our candidates for the three ministries offered as soon as possible, which is what belongs to us, and we believe that this matter will happen in time and there will be no special preconditions. It must be said that all those who have criticized us in this regard have had poor arguments and different floods, and we reject that. A good consensus has been reached and we think that together in this government we can help manage the country in a way that will please all our voters and citizens whose expectations are high. We are very aware that these expectations are justified, but that they will be realized to the extent of objective conditions and opportunities in view of the evolution of the situation in which the economy forces the financial system, and that it is perfectly normal for us to expect voters and citizens to understand if expectations and perhaps pre-election promises are to be made to a limited extent, if times are severe for the country, because we are not alone, not just pensioners, are not just one and the other, but we need to think about what is going to happen and what we will decide, and that is our common goal. Once again: we will support all seven, united and happy candidates and hope for creative and coherent cooperation, as well as successful cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the candidate for a term of office, because work needs to be started; let it begin with work to form a government to introduce ministers; then the next chapter will be discussed again on the composition of the government. Surely the work will not be easy, because it must be done enormously, and I hope that what has already begun with the government will continue. The tycoons are exhausting Slovenia, stealing long and fast, and I hope that this will not end this race against the tycoons, who I hope will eventually end up with convictions, because I would not want anyone to be fired, released and looked at through his fingers because of political preferences. The judiciary is weak, corrupt, and incompetent to a large extent, so it needs to be put in place and arranged. We had expected this before, and somehow it was not possible to achieve this. Socially, lazy people and lazy people are still preferred, and I think this should end once. Those who work get paid for their work, those who don't work get kicked in the road. I hope that co-operation with the opposition will be, despite the fact that the LDS and really decided that they do not want anything with the Slovenian National Party. Perhaps this will change with the Prime Minister, who, I hope, will put the right ministers in the right places. This also depends on the government's functioning, the opposition's participation and everything else. I don't think we should just leave the government to the coalition. It should be said that the previous government had a good move, which was also accepted by the candidate for prime minister, namely the Partnership for Development. A good move, a good thought and in big things this thing has also brought some positive results, we cannot deny it, and it must be welcomed, but by no means forgotten or rejected by one formulation, if we know what is good and what is right: only what is within the coalition, everything else that is outside is bad. That's not true. That's not true. For if you do so, Mr candidate, in this case you will also deny your own work in previous mandates. I hope that no political-police structures against certain Members, such as those of your kind, Mr Prime Minister, will start again from 1992 on. For 15 years, your gentlemen have dragged me through the courts until it turns out what it is, and now I have been dragged back from your ranks by the courts for four years by some accusations about some bills, and now again the chase has begun from certain of your kinds, because some say we are now strong again and now we will continue what we have put in short, getting Jelinčič out of Parliament. I'm sure, Mr. Candidate, you don't know about this. Maybe I'll explain them to you in more detail sometime, but if you look around you, you'll see where these things come from. Well, in short, I hope that there will be no such strange variants that have ended fatally in other countries, in the country of Slovenia, thank God, at least in my case they are not. In some cases, certain special forces have died in strange traffic accidents, etc. I'm not gonna tell you what logs it came from, and it doesn't matter here today, but let's just think about it. You will certainly have a lot of work to do in the field of media and, above all, in the field of television. The media in Slovenia are biased, they are weak and TV is not worth the money. I'm talking about national television, where we could quietly exclude 40, 50 people, and send the rest home. But it's those who are supposed to send them home that are already bowing down to you. They're doing selective programs again. Again, it's not important conscience, it's not important content, but it's important who says something or who can't say it - and I'm not going to say it's coming from your logs, but I think some editors and journalists already have self-censorship, I'd say a chip that doesn't allow them to publish something that maybe future authorities wouldn't be after a year. I'm saying maybe because they're already scared in advance, and they're already ready to bow to the new government to maybe hold positions, or get better positions, or even get some positions. It's a terrible thing, actually. And I think we really need to amend the Media Act, but perhaps not the kind of political parties that have called on television in previous mandates, at least some of their high representatives, and ask for what will be published, who will be published and who will participate in the contribution. I hope this is over. You must be aware that the opposition will look at you very closely. We'll look for mistakes and we'll be very critical of mistakes. But it is true that we will support any good move that will benefit the state and the citizens. We are also prepared to cooperate with our own ideas, and I hope that you will take these ideas into account, but in such a way that the idea will get the right addressee or subscriber, not that it will happen as it has already happened, that the idea is accepted, accepted, used and copied as a decoration on its own. I hope that we will work well together to benefit from the development of our common country. It is important to be aware that we are on the same boat, that we are sailing in the same direction and that I am not in favour of - I already do not like this to row in an eight without a rudder, it would be even worse if four rowed in one direction and four in the other direction. Therefore, you will need a lot of wisdom, a lot of your own reflections, and many times you will have to take away suggestions from your immediate or a little longer circles. If you give in to suggestions, your rule will not be good. I think it makes sense for you to do whatever you want to do, occasionally, as the previous government did at least in the beginning, it worked out, and we'll be happy to participate there. I wish you every success on my behalf, on behalf of the parliamentary group and the parties in forming a future government. Once we know the names of the ministers, then, as I said, the next chapter will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected candidate for a new government term, a respected colleague and colleague! Slovenian voters and voters decided on the elections and the SD party with President Borut Pahor received the biggest support. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, has also sent a proposal to the National Assembly to elect Mr Borut Pahor here as our ambassador. This situation is clear from the very conclusion of the electoral results, a good month and a half ago. The Slovenian People's Party will support this proposal. As the president of our party has already said, "Time is for state-owned parties", and I add "state-owned government, not for state-owned ministries." The key reason for our support is the desire for the government to be formed as soon as possible, since any further delay in the formation of the government would be to the detriment of Slovenia and its citizens in the context of the current global financial and economic crisis, which is already in effect in Slovenia. Unresponsible to the country at this point is that in such a clear situation it takes so long. In the SLS, we get the feeling that the winning party and the emerging coalitions do not hope to take responsibility for running the country. The global financial crisis, which has taken over the Western world, unfortunately, is already showing teeth in Slovenia. In the SLS, we point out that, in such circumstances, there is no time for ideological political divisions, but that Slovenian policy must accept the challenge of overcoming divisions in the internal political space and taking an extremely responsible attitude towards the state and citizens. In order to take action actively and to respond quickly to the changing macroeconomic environment, we must have a government acting with full powers as soon as possible. After all, in the SLS, we have consciously decided that in this mandate we will be the opposition party; if we want to work as an opposition party, we must first have a position on the other hand, the government. Of course, support to the mandate-holder does not mean weak support below. Members of the SLS will already take a much more critical attitude towards all questionable guidelines when proposing a ministerial team and support all proposals that will go in the direction of the development of the state of Slovenia and for the benefit of the Slovenes and Slovenes. Many of the solutions we have seen in the currently available draft coalition treaties deserve critical judgment. At this point, we would like to draw attention to solutions in the field of local self-government, from which the spirit follows the re-centralisation and predominance of large municipalities in particular. In our view, regionalisation and decentralisation are the only guarantees for equitable regional development. There is little emphasis, according to available data, on agriculture and rural development. In SLS as a traditional representative of the interests of rural and Slovenian agriculture and agriculture, we will also actively deal with the most pressing problems of Slovenian agriculture, which, unfortunately, has not been touched by the known coalition treaty so far. Already in the introduction, there was a great deal of emphasis on the day of the economy and finance. The SLS will maintain the same attitude towards the sale of state property as it has been until now. The majority or control shares of important Slovenian companies, banks, insurance companies, infrastructure companies should remain in state hands. Let us not forget, of course, our commitment to a just border on land and sea. The SLS remains a firm and unforgivable fighter for the Slovenian land to remain within Slovenian borders. More precisely, some of the areas of the so far known coalition programme will be touched by Members in individual performances below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u15	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u16	Mr President of the National Assembly, Dr Paula Gantar, the distinguished candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, dear colleague and colleague. Some things and some thoughts I wrote down, what to say, because I came to this house with good will, optimistic mood. It seems to me that today is an important day for Slovenians and Slovenians, especially a happy and optimistic day. I am pleased and convinced that the majority of us who have crossed this threshold today, this view, of course, is a new opportunity for new work, for new success. Slovenia is certainly in a difficult, but certainly resolution situation, in a period of time when we need a competent government to take the responsibility to take urgent action as soon as possible. Voters have chosen changes in the elections, and they are always right. He also made a good decision by a trusted president, Dr. Danilo Türk, and the electorates no doubt chose changes in the elections. Borut Pahor is the president of the party which has received relatively the highest votes in the last parliamentary elections, so it is expected, fair and normal that, in accordance with the tradition of our Slovenian parliamentary democracy, to which we are and must be proud - and that is also the case with all the established democracies around the world - the first to be given a mandate for the composition of the new government. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will fully, happily and confidently support it. With the Social Democrats, we are basically a related party to the country's leadership, which means that before the elections our common goal was clear, a goal that connected us both with the SD and Really, that there must be fundamental changes in the way the country leads. We need an unburdened, open social dialogue in implementing concrete projects to make life easier and better together. We need transparent, professional and realistic performance criteria in the implementation of political projects. Only an effective government with a vision can provide changes in the way it works and decision-making. And I can say that this government, this group that has formed, has four clear views ahead; the goals, the visions and the assurance of how to do so. Yesterday there was a paraphrasing of the coalition treaty, the one we have already read, we can say, pleased with it, is a document in which everything that exists cannot be written down, but the key areas are processed, everyone is given attention. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are pleased with what was happening in the formation of this treaty; all four partners were equal, respectable, and if we say human, if we know each other after the morning, then we can rejoice that day. We've got a lot of work ahead of us, we're gonna have to roll up our sleeves, but success and results won't be missed. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are confident that Borut Pahor will successfully form a government and lead Slovenia towards a successful and solidarity country for the next four years. And in our party, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are prepared to help him do his best. Now, if this is how we set our day and organize our work, then it will be good for the Slovenes and Slovenians, and that's what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Lázsló Göncz has the floor on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u18	[[...]] [[He speaks Hungarian.]] Dear Members and Members, Mr President, Mr Pahor. [[...]] I expressed my greeting in my mother tongue, as this symbolism also confirms the European orientation and democracy of the temple of Slovenian legislation. Allow me to present my views before the vote on the proposed mandate-holder, which is based on coordination within the Hungarian national community and agreement with the proposed mandate-holder. They are also coordinated with the Member of the Italian National Community and, indirectly, also with the Italian Community. It is the fact that the Republic of Slovenia implements a policy towards indigenous national communities at a high level, in certain solutions and issues. As a result of positive discrimination against the national community, special mention should be made of the results in the field of culture, information and education in the last two decades, which undoubtedly affect the existence of a community and the development of national identity and mother tongue. A positive attitude in the past applies more or less to every Slovenian government after independence. However, I am sure that the responsibility of the Slovenian political elite and the most important national authorities is also great today. I would be very general if, on this occasion, I did not also draw attention to the greatest problems and problems that, despite the previous position, are present in the everyday life of our community. The rate of reduction in the number of members of the Hungarian community in Slovenia according to the latest population count is well above 20%, which is an extremely high percentage. We also note that the prestige of Hungarian cultural values and language, despite the elimination of some of the important causes of the imprisonment of the national mixed area, is still at a stage of a somewhat calmer but despite this significant decline. We must be aware of the fact that a small number of the national community, whether it is Hungarian, Slovenian in place, Italian or other, especially the need for constant legal protection, which is always complementary and adapted to the situation and of course to stable material aid. The constant problem is, in particular, the inconsistent implementation of formally well-defined legal provisions. Undoubtedly, however, it is important to note the significant economic and social problems of the entire Prekmurje or Pomurje, with particular emphasis on direct border settlements and certain parts of Gorička, where the strongest lag behind the Slovenian average is most pronounced in the field of the most basic living conditions. We are pleased that the coalition partners are united in wanting national law to be progressively complemented and upgraded in this mandate on the basis of professional arguments. Together with the Italian National Community and with the help of the Government, state institutions and other professional factors, we would like to propose a general law on the indigenous national community, which will be of a combined and complementary nature in this mandate. We would also like to see a concretely defined competent institution at state level, which can also be formed within the existing institution of the Ombudsman, over violations and inconsistencies in the field of the exercise of the rights already guaranteed. It is also essential to ensure that national organisations and institutions operate in a stable manner in a way that allows for permanent development other than continuity. In the context of the more balanced development of the regions, I reiterate the need for a positive approach by the new Slovenian Government to all development programmes, which will contribute to more effective coordination of the pomur area with other parts of the country. The projected economic recession, which we too are taking with maximum seriousness, must certainly not push even deeper the demographic and socially threatened areas. This, of course, can only be prevented through planned interventions and well-prepared programmes that can be developed somewhere along with the new government. Because we see these elements in the contract, that is why, and also my fellow Member, we will support the proposed mandate-holder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect Mr Borut Pahor from the National Assembly for President of the Government, I am opening a debate on Members and Members. Mr President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, France Tsukati, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! It is kind of awkward to talk about the candidate in front of the candidate, but Mr Pahor is an experienced Member and he will not be put down by any criticism, nor will he be discouraged, nor will he be commended for tearing him from the ground and lifting him up into the sky. I must say, as a man, my colleague Borut is a kind, correct, well-groomed gentleman and his appearances, his views have always aroused sympathy and people have always listened to him. But now we have before us not only a colleague of Borut, but a candidate for the Prime Minister, that is to say a candidate who will be the first man of the new policy of the executive branch of power. So those who are expected to be very clear, concrete answers and concrete moves. The honeymoon of general and pleasant talk is over. The specific issue of knocking on doors and not only do I think of threatening predictions of workers' forgiveness - the economic crisis, the financial crisis and so on - but all the problems that await resolution, both the problems of the whole country and the specific citizens. All of this calls for clear and concrete answers, but they are not, even though we have expected them. Not here in this Chamber at the time of the performance, but at least in the coalition contract, which is extensive and apparently has 70 pages. While it is written on each side many times "we will study", "we will fight", there is great concern for the quality of life, the competitiveness of the economy, for the poor, for the poor and for many other things. However, we do not find the answers to this concern. We will find some concrete answers, very few, and very concrete ones, such as the commitment of partners to change the tolling law, to remove the wines, to re-establish the tolling, and, of course, to raise it if necessary. Similarly, I would say that it is very pleasant to say that the future government, the future policy, will not carry out political staffing, there will be no human resources tsunami. We also listened to this and we liked it very much, but see, today at this meeting, we have a agenda item when we replace the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and appoint another person. I do not know where this secretary-general has not met the professional criteria for the management of this service. I don't know! I also don't know that in four years, I'd make decisions, political or party bias. I haven't seen this one in four years. Well, I know, you'll say, the law allows it. It does allow and I am sure that some practice is already being suggested, which will take full advantage of all the legal options of the Kadrovski - "Qadrovski", in the narration - verifications or personnel replacements. Mr. Candidate! Nice promises, and very kind words, were yours. We have then assessed you, but also the new policies will in some way be yours, and the public will also assess you by them, because you will be the first man of the new policy of the executive branch in this country. I don't think dreams are enough today. Today is a new day. I'm afraid this day predicts worse than it was in pre-election time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Member of the Parliament, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I'm a candidate for a terminator myself, and I think I met for the first time, like, 20 years ago, when I was in high school, I think, and we had a round table on the current social situation. At that time, I think that the current candidate for the term of office also somehow finished his university and was a young politician who was eloquently talking about the necessary democratic changes in Slovenia. He talked about Slovenia being a small country, but it has a great creative potential, that we are too few to share ours and yours. He was talking about the urgent changes that are ahead of us. And even today, 20 years after listening to him, I can see that he remained as he was then: consistent in his political beliefs, loyal to himself and the values he represents. Today we will elect a candidate for a term of office, and I think it is very important for politicians to remain faithful to themselves, to abide by the principles they define as the most important. I think that the times ahead are actually very difficult. They will need a leader who will be able to connect, and also connect with the opposition. And tell me, honourable Members, whether there is someone here today who is more capable of connecting than Mr Borut Pahor. This will be very important in the coming weeks, the months. Borut Pahor has always sought common ground with other thinkers, and I have no doubt that he will look for the best possible solutions even in dialogue with the opposition. What needs to be highlighted is that his work so far in Slovenian politics over the past 20 years actually shows that he is loyal to the public interest. That is why I also believe that the future government will not be a prisoner of either individual lobbying or individual interest groups. The time ahead is actually very difficult, so I am very pleased that today the candidate for a mandate has put ahead the economic and social priorities ahead of us. I also think that the Slovenian public is aware that the situation is not simple. Slovenia is a small, open economy that exports more than 70% of gross domestic product, and we are fatally dependent on the situation in foreign markets. It is therefore quite clear that this wave, the tsunami that is now expanding from the financial sector to the real sector, will also be a tsunami of recession. That is why I think it will actually be necessary to link all the creative potential that this country is over to overcome this crisis as effectively as possible. And as I said, there is a policy in this Chamber that has been doing this for 20 years, trying to connect in Slovenia, not to divide us into left and right, into "our" and "your". He is also, in some ways, a generation representative who is not burdened by the past, who has a respectful attitude towards the past, but also looks boldly into the future. That is why I will be pleased to support Mr Pahor's candidate and, of course, I wish him good luck in leading the future government. At the end of the day, there's only one thing I'd like to say. I think it's also a message for the National Assembly when we actually see what the procedures for appointing a government are: that we love the mandate holder first, then the ministers again. I think we're all aware that these procedures are too long. We see that the Americans had an election on Tuesday, today, two days later it's gonna be a cabinet and next week it's probably going to be operational. That is why, of course, it is also the task of this National Assembly to consider the urgent changes to the Constitution. This is not the fault of this mandate-holder, not of the previous mandate-holder. In both cases, it took two months for the government to form after the elections. That is why I think that we all see today that the constitutional changes that will simplify these procedures are urgent and that this is in some way also in the public interest, that every time a new government begins its work as soon as possible. In view of the fact that the former Prime Minister will also sit in the National Assembly, I think he will understand the need for constitutional changes in this area and that we will also be able to reach enough votes here to make meaningful changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll say a few short sentences myself about what I've heard so far. I have heard the invitation of the future mandate holder to participate; I have heard some thoughts about his programming orientations and I have heard a number of answers to this offer to participate in the programme, which I am pleased to sign. This is a good sign for the beginning of our work. Of course, it must be said that I also heard a very lonely performance, which talked mainly about divisions and talked mainly about divisions, which, therefore, spoke somehow differently and which in fact gave more thought to the aesthetic form of performance as the programme content that was presented. I hope that it will be so in the future, in the next four years, that those not interested in cooperation will perform less frequently and in particular that they will not press the stick between the spikes in the wheels that we will try to run. Among other things, I heard what I was very pleased to hear when the mandate-holder presented the programming guidelines, a comment from the opposition species, which said, "Yes, but this one is ours." And if this programming direction is ours and if it represents this programming direction, Mr Boris Pahor is indeed ours, that is, ours also from those species that are considered to be opposition, then there is likely to be good cooperation. I want it all the way. Since, while we are already doing this, we must express our support for the programme, which we have also tried to create from our kind, I express my support for the one who represents this agreement, and I wish that the work in this mandate would be slightly different from the previous one, that the culture of communication would be different, that the level of discussion would be different, and that indeed everyone would have thought that something must be done to ensure that the difficult situation that we are looking forward to and which is already present will be resolved as best possible by our collective engagement. Since the mandate-holder, the future mandate-holder has committed himself to proper cooperation, he has committed himself to equal cooperation - I can say from his own experience that in the process of forming the coalition agreement he could also prove it - I am sure that he will also do so in the future, that he has made a great obligation to continue with such a proper work, that he has imposed a great responsibility which must be the responsibility of all of us, so I think it would be right that, if not all of us, but at least in the vast majority, after we have the opportunity to do so, we would also support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Borut Pahor, we both come from Primorska. It is true that these procedures are too long; perhaps the system of appointment of a government is too tight, so in this financial and economic state of Slovenia we would expect to be faster in doing so. The coastline also got the last freeway. The University of the Sea has major problems. The railroad's got about a year and a half already had a huge amount of money, and we haven't started any projects. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And maritime workers, of course, expect to have European wages when they are better than the Germans. [[...]] I expect from you, if we are already paying such high taxes and we have the highest wage burdens, I also expect from you that we will have European salaries in Slovenia once. This would be the fact that Primorska, your party in Primorska, has the highest number of Members, including the obligation to give the Primorska the development opportunities and opportunities outlined in the projects. I'll expect that from you. But as you said, you have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u28	Dear President, distinguished presidential candidate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is a great and responsible task for us to elect a future Prime Minister today. In 14 days, we will also elect a new government to lead our beautiful country in a rather difficult and responsible time. We have a primary responsibility, less than an opportunity, and I think that our procedures need to be very rapid. Our citizens and citizens also have high expectations of all of us for their standard of living at the expense of the pre-election time and the promises made. And I fear that many of the promises that have been made will be difficult to fulfill, because at the time of the start of the electoral campaign, to date, much has changed mainly in the economic field, in the economic field, in many ways. That is why I think it will be very difficult to maintain jobs, to find capital for new investments, which is the basis for creating new added value as well. So once again, I share an opinion with those who feel that every day we lose - and we have a government that is leaving - is a day that is bad. That is why I urge you to hurry these procedures and come as soon as possible with a proposal before us and that the government is fully operational. You are forming a programme related government coalition, as SD Group leader Mr Kontic said. I think it is also that such a coalition, a coalition of parties that are related, and at the same time a coalition of parties that have been given a mandate in elections by voters and voters, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The coalition contract, which has so far been available and carefully reviewed, can first be said that, unfortunately, this coalition contract is also very inconclusive, loose, and therefore it is difficult to understand from it where it is going and what the real direction of this government is, so we certainly expect more in hearings and even in 14 days when the Slovenian government presents itself. Unfortunately, we have already seen in the drafts of the coalition treaty that on the one hand there is a great deal of emphasis on social policy, the rights of pensioners, the unemployed, which is right. It is also true that you have given great emphasis to the culture of governance, the withdrawal of policies from the economy, media freedom and the values we must cultivate in this country. Unfortunately, according to our observations in the spirit of the coalition treaty, we also sensed the spirit of centralisation. This is where we focus mainly on the area of local self-government. I think we're going to have to think carefully about how we're going to start with the primary level, say, with the municipalities, what we're going to do with the second level, decide responsibly and do it. And we regret what has been available to us so far has shown us mainly in the direction of centralisation, in some way of grading the work, including small municipalities, rural municipalities that carry out the left hand share in the development of this Slovenia and because we have such good municipalities, we also have such a beautiful Slovenia. That's why I think a thorough thought is needed here. I also think there is no definition of what will happen to the basic substance of the Slovenian economy, what will happen to Slovenian banks, what will happen to insurance. For a time, many politicians, journalists, economists laughed at those who spoke of national interest and it was right for the state to determine what would continue to be state-owned. I think that the events of recent weeks have shown us strongly that even in those countries where they have sworn to a saving market for half a century, they must interfere with certain regulatory measures. I am sure that, even in our country, the government will not be able to avoid this and that it is right to pay great attention to this area, to decisions in broad consensus and to define ourselves. I miss the area of agriculture, the countryside that's connected to it. I think it's fundamentally underwritten in this contract, and I hope that on this half-page, which unfortunately I didn't notice any content to produce any more of it. As the representative of Posavje, a region that has certainly been marked in the last decade by energy interventions, by energy development, by the establishment of the Faculty of Energy, by the establishment and quality start of the second energy pillar, I certainly do not like the chapter where your coalition contract allows you to continue building energy facilities in Posavje to build remote and business functions as usual, back to headquarters. We will certainly not agree on such matters, and in this part expect and consider whether you are doing the right thing for the development of Slovenia and a region that has largely decided to be one of the basic components of its economic development. Don't say anything about saving, dear fellow. Savings will have to be made in this country; savings will have to be made in public administration. Consider whether standards are correct in all areas of the public sphere. When people come from abroad, they find that ours, I don't know, are also nursing homes, schools, hotels. I don't know, I'm very much in favour of this as a citizen, and we invest a lot. The question is whether we can handle it. Let's all think about it together! But in spite of all this, Mr Pahor, I highly appreciate you, so we have also decided in the People's Party to support you unitedly, to give you a chance. As you said, as you have shown many times in the past, we want good cooperation. Expect our support when we find that your decisions are in line with our client's programming services, when we find that this is good for Slovenians and Slovenians, expect constructive suggestions from our side, and expect strong criticism when we assess that the government's decisions are against the interests of citizens and citizens, Slovenes and Slovenians and against the programme of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarina Kresal has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected candidate for Prime Minister Borut Pahor! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy, we firmly believe that the new mandate-holder will be able to face all the difficult problems that await our government ahead of us. We have made this very clear before the elections, and also the confidence of the voters and voters has shown that they can take responsibility for change. And that responsibility is now ahead of us. We can work on it by putting together a good team to have a competent government, and above all, to work very carefully. I believe that the coalition agreement we initialled yesterday is a good basis for such work. Why? Because the result is a reasoned and professional debate. And where there is no unity, finding consensus takes longer, and then that consensus is so much more solid. And when the President of the Republic announced his decision on who he trusted with the mandate, I was happy with his words. I must say, instead of the hidden plots behind his statements, I prefer to listen to the very clear messages he always tells us. And not only he, but also a candidate for a mandate, Mr Borut Pahor, talked about originality at the time. I'm sure it can save us in these very difficult times. We must not forget the audacity of original solutions, of originality. Slovenia has already paid this many times: when it can think in its own way, when it can go in its own direction, when it can go in its own direction, but above all originality means that you know and trust your own abilities. And that is why Slovenia will also be able to cope with the situation it is in. Only the fact that there will be more of us in the coalition, that we are different, that we are different, that we are different, is an important promise for me that reflection will be more substantial, that decisions will be more prudent and that action will be effective. We, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, will always be concerned in this story that human rights will be untouchable, that the rule of law will be the key to trust in the community and that equality will be just all conditions for the realization of personal opportunities and common successes and, of course, that we will be truly original at home and abroad, between sex, between countries, culture, information technology, education, science. In short, in all areas that are still important for our development. And because we believe in such a Slovenia and democratically open and original, we will gladly support the mandate of Mr Borut Pahor and, of course, we will help him and contribute to the continuing victory of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In 2006, we adopted a programme document in Nova Gorica, which has a spoken title for Slovenia at the top of the world. We have upgraded this document for the purposes of this year's national elections with an alternative government programme of Social Democrats and, together with the substantive proposals from the coalition partners and partners' programmes, together with Zares, DeSUS and LDS, we have specified it in a coalition agreement on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the 2008-2012 mandate. The agreement was initialled yesterday, even before today's performance by future Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The outgoing Prime Minister of the Government and the future leader of the opposition, Janez Janša, was critical until the slow establishment of the new government, especially during the global financial crisis and economic recession. Of course, by the way, I miss his presence at the first two meetings of the National Assembly. However, when I examined how the formation of the government took place four years ago, I can say that in both cases, there will be an equally long period between the elections and the oath of ministers and ministers. Finally, at this meeting, we will also consider two substantive laws, namely the amendment of the Banking Act and public finances, with the aim of preventing difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State due to possible disruptions to the functioning of the financial system. In addition, the future Prime Minister has already announced that he does not need 100 days of peace before the opposition, as we say, unwritten rule, but only for a few weeks, that new ministers and ministers will take over from their predecessors and form a team of the closest co-workers. Therefore, the time for Christmas holidays will certainly be sufficient. After all, a similar transition procedure for changing government suits is also followed by presidential elections in the United States. The future President of the United States will only swear in the second half of January next year, in a country where the global financial crisis has erupted and is unseemly worse than ours. I mean, elections cannot and must not affect the normal functioning of state institutions. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow us to respond adequately to all the problems facing us. Today, we will also form all the working bodies, so that the National Assembly will be fully constituted. Respected, the coalition agreement is a response to the challenge of the time we enter into and at the same time represents a vision of development in which everyone will have the opportunity and opportunity to create a decent life. The Agreement has invited and co-operated with all those who want a better Slovenia. This, of course, is also an invitation to the opposition and there is no separation between us and yours, as we have clearly heard in the last days and even today's debate. After us are the elections of the National Assembly. Pete in Slovenia alone. In many ways, they have been a turning point, thus marking our future destiny and direction of development. Social Democrats see Slovenia as a socially balanced and economically pervasive and secure society with an ambition to be included in the most developed countries of the European Union in the coming period. This objective can only be achieved through responsible work and changes that will contribute to a better life for everyone and, in the first place, through a successful response to the global financial and economic crisis already reflected in the Slovenian economy. I am sure that with a good team of ministers and ministers led by Prime Minister Borut Pahor we will succeed. The first opportunity to face the future government team in concrete terms will be at the ministerial presentations of the Committees of the National Assembly. It is understandable that today I will also support the candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Pahor, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Fellow Members, Honourable candidate for Prime Minister of the Government! It was nice to hear today in this House that the voters had decided. Allow me, however, to touch, in this presentation of the programme, on the attitude of the electorate to the coalition agreement, as is now the case from the coalition treaty, on one, perhaps a very specific, and also an illustrative case. As I understand the coalition treaty itself, this represents a political commitment to the achievement of pre-election promises, commitments to the electorate and to the electorate. In any other case, I think you'd be incredibly reputable to your electorate right from the very beginning. I therefore hope that yesterday the initial coalition agreement or agreement is clear, understandable, measurable and concrete. As concrete as your candidate for a member of the constituency, where I have run for office, was, for example, my competitor, who, in his electoral message in the local newspapers, made it very clear: "I am also delighted that in the event of a election victory, the state will, among other things, give a laptop computer to each student." I'm sure it's a very tempting promise to the electorate. I'm sure she must have brought a lot of extra votes. Imagine, for example, that the Social Democrats would promise before the elections and undertake to end the blames on Slovenian highways. However, once again, I would like to stress that it is extremely important that what is promised before the elections is also realized. Dear candidate for the Prime Minister, I wish you great success!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There is a Member of Parliament, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u36	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister of the Government! Although the move by the President of the Slovenian State, Mr Danil Türk, which proposes a new mandate holder, has somehow translated the enthusiasm and joy, optimism and hope and confidence in our assembly. Something because we know the candidate by his good deeds, by his good deeds, something because we know that he is an experienced politician with a lot of political wisdom. However, something about the fact that a contract or coalition agreement was signed yesterday, which has largely incorporated the content that our party, DeSUS, stands for. And this content, which is of fundamental importance to us, is also of fundamental importance to those we represent, is the reason and condition, as well as the marriage, that somehow during this term of office we will be able to implement what we have promised, and what our electorates and voters want. I think that this is all that somehow translates us with enthusiasm and expectation that the President of the Government and today's candidate will also implement this idea of change. We know that the economy is the one that will change in the future. And I am sure that, both our candidate and everyone else, we do not think that changes would be radical in all areas, but that changes would be where they are needed. So, change what's bad, keep what's good, keep it going and keep it going. I am sure that these are the wisdom that our candidate or new President of the Government will confidently be able to do. In this hall there are many dark thoughts and dark clues regarding the performance of this very responsible function. I don't know. I'm an optimist by nature. I was optimistic when Mr Janez Janša was appointed as a mandate-holder, and there is no reason for him not to be optimistic again today when Mr Borut Pahor's proposed candidate is. I am convinced that all the candidates who are proposed have so much moral conscience and so much responsibility that they will be involved in their work all they can and perhaps more. That is why I am sure that candidate Borut Pahor will be able to form the government responsible, to lead it. But of course, as has already been said, we will offer all possible support on the part of our parliamentary group and wish that this government is not only responsible for the success of this government. I wish you a successful lead. Congratulations in advance, and because I'm kind of optimistic, and I know this time it's going to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u37	Thank you very much. There is a Member of Parliament, Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, distinguished candidates and others in attendance! With regard to the support for Mr Pahor's election as a mandate-holder, I have no reservations, as voters and voters have shown and decided in this year's elections, and it has also been seen that the majority has been defined among the mandate-holders, while the parties have been slightly pushed aside. And now, if I come from this fact and from the expectation of exacerbation of the economic situation, Mr Pahor should already have a government team. This story is taking too long, I think. So, Mr Pahor's support, and I expect us to cooperate and listen to each other also on topics that are close to me as a small entrepreneur. The gentleman has already mentioned something, micro-enterprises, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and the creation of an effective payment discipline, which is a big bar for our economy. In addition, I would like to mention that it would be good to play with employment legislation a little bit. You could be more flexible. The so-called temporary employment, which could benefit both partners, both the employer and the employee, could be eliminated. Because I think that if this matter were to be slightly softened and placed within the right framework now, there would also be an incentive for employment, and also people, workers, would, I am sure, adapt and participate significantly more flexibly. As a patriot, I am pleased in your debate about the national reconciliation mentioned. I also support the care of Slovenians around the world. I hope that this isn't going to transfer the division to yours and ours, but it's going to be one such connecting factor. Perhaps my dream will be realized, too, that perhaps there will be people sitting here with our colleagues representing national communities who will represent our diaspora, which has evolved over the past few decades. I must say, my ancestors are the first wave to move out in 1890 and we still have connections and acquaintances with these people today. I have hosted them many times here in Slovenia and have visited them myself. As a constructive opposition, however, I promise you that we will closely monitor your actions, because we want these moves to be good because of the citizens and citizens who gave us this mandate. The first performance indicator for the mandate holder will certainly be the composition of the government and we will examine the qualifications of candidates for ministers well before we support them or reject them. Mr. Pahor! I wish you and all of us a happy and successful work.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u39	Thank you very much. There's an MP's word. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Today I will have a kind of extended term of election and voter support for the Social Democrats, and I will say and round up the vote for the term of office of Borut Pahor. That fact doesn't surprise anyone because we're from the same party. But I would like to tell you some of my personal reasons why I will support Mr. Borut Pahor. During the pre-election period and in the past four years, it was often heard that Slovenia should grow into a free country. But relaxation does not grow out of cruelty and oppression, and in Borut Pahor, I see a man who will be able to find different foundations for the citizens and citizens of Slovenia and other people in this country to live well, to achieve that goal or at least to get close to that goal, which is also enshrined in the coalition agreement as a basic orientation, but to ensure that the state provides a good life for all who live in it. Let her be solidarity, in addition to ensuring that the developed country is also developed. Borut Pahor convinced me in particular with some basic thought which was before the content and which some said was a form, just a substitute for content, and in this case I think the content is inherent in itself or inherent in content. This is a way of managing public affairs and Borut Pahor has always provided and advocated dialogue, communication and consideration of the interlocutor as a basis for decisions that would lead to responsible management of public affairs. And here I can say with certainty that the space for dialogue will be both with civil society and with other thinkers, and we will not be witnessing exclusion just like that and at all costs. I'm sure it'll be possible to explain its different position to everyone. And now, Commissioner, allow me to express some of my expectations. During the previous term of office, the National Assembly was often placed in a position where it did not feel sufficiently respectful towards the constitution of a certain separation between individual branches of government. One thing is the relationship between the National Assembly as a whole and between the Government as a whole, but I expect every Member and every Member to be dealt with with with with with an appropriate attitude towards integrity and will also be given due respect to the Government as a whole and to each minister. In particular, I am thinking about how the mandate holder and later the President of the Government will achieve with their ministers and ministers that they will treat us with respect when we turn to the government and to individual ministers with questions. This is the task that each Member has, whether from the coalition or from the opposition, that he is the messenger of the expectations of the electoral base from which he comes. The other thing I expect from you is that you will finally regulate the relationship between NGOs and civil society and the executive branch of power. In my previous mandate, I called for free of charge, however, to reach an agreement whereby the role of civil society would be taken more into account. And just for the end of the coalition agreement, which some have given him a lack of concreteness, let me draw up a little thought that is extremely important to me because I see a great deal of content for it. This is a sermon that says that we will promote and finance research and promotion of the Slovenian language. Behind this sentence, the whole world of research into the modern and historical Slovenian language hides concern for lecturers at foreign universities, worries about institutes and can still be spoken. I am therefore confident that Borut Pahor will form a good government, which we will also be able to call for responsibility in our parliamentary mandate when we think is not achieving the objectives set. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Everyone in this hall has a nice greeting! I would like to congratulate my colleagues on the other hand, and, of course, Mr Borut Pahor, first of all, on the success of the elections. This is important for all Slovenes, because after this day, after this night in Slovenia there is no more poverty, in Slovenia there is no more affair of Patria and in Slovenia, of course, there is no more affair of Sova. However, I have some concerns about the appointment of Mr Borut Pahor. If we look at his political path, there's a lot going on against his will. He was elected as a European Member against his will. He took his last place, but the people decided that Borut Pahor had gone to Brussels. His will was to participate in the presidential elections, but his client said no, Borut Pahor would take the SD to the national elections, and Borut Pahor then gave up his own will and renounced the will of his constituents or the will of the party. And, of course, after all this, I am asked whether Mr Borut Pahor will, of his own free will, form this government, or who will not make up this government from behind. We know who. I am sorry, however, that Mr Borut Pahor did not have the will to deal with lies in his own kind. The lie thus became a political companion to the option that leads it, and this is not a good journey for the composition of this government. Of course, I am referring to Owl’s affair, an unspoken lie, but a consciously false lie is, of course, a lie and a lie that we cannot otherwise mark. But it is true that it would be good, as has been said here many times before, to finally get a new government. Colleagues from Social Democracy have also repeatedly predicted a shadow government. Soon after John Janša assembled the government, there was nothing from this government, or it is still in a shadow somewhere today, in a similar shade. I certainly don't envy Borut Pahori. He's got a hard job ahead of him. Socrates had only one wife, Ksantipo, Borut Pahor, a few women in the government, and I don't think he's going to be able to do that, and of course he's going to have a few more ministers, all of whom are going to be very uncomfortable. But I must predict that we will also be petty and unfavourable in the opposition. I think Borut Pahor would be better off here between us, but good luck with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. A respected choir! Clearly, I have no qualms and will vote for Borut Pahor. For me, who belong to the majority coalition, this is some kind of duty, but I will vote for it because in this programme, which is more or less summed up by the coalition contract, I also recognize myself to a large extent. But since my voice has never been, has never been, and will never be a blank currency, I will try to justify it with some fundamental expectations that are mine and are the expectations of that part of the public who has also entrusted me with the voice. In the district where I was elected these days, 160 workers and workers of Mehana remain on the road. This is a very concrete example of something that has now begun to happen rapidly in our country in this intergovernmental, between one government and another, and in particular with an alibi coming or already present in the recession. This kind of chain reaction is likely to be experienced even more during this period. And it's actually suspicious that there's not as much recession in the background as what the non-economic masters have been basically announcing for a few years now, so they're going to put companies in bankruptcy and they're going to earn in a different way. Speculatively, and that's what's going on. I like the fact that in this programme this government will ensure a new position, which means, above all, changing the system, allowing the bad owner to send 160 or 200 or 100 or 300 workers and workers to the road and that nothing happens to it. So he can even profit from it. There are several mechanisms to be implemented as soon as possible. So to prevent speculation, to support those companies that are socially responsible, who will also be able to respond to the challenges that are taking place during this transition period, and I have no doubt that the Government and Borut Pahor will be part of this. Since I come from Slovenia, I would like to highlight another very important question. This is a question of support for public education and also for the public university. The University of Primorsk is in serious trouble. In particular, due to the failure to implement some of the assurances of the previous government and because we expect the Primors and the people of Slovenia of Istria to prevent this issue, in particular the auction of an important facility owned by the public university, I hope and expect that this will be one of the priorities already at the first government meeting. There's another concern coming from that area. Taking care of your relationships with your neighbors. For 17 years, the yoke of disputes, misunderstandings, disagreements over the pressing issue of the state border has been on the table. I hope, and I expect that after these seventeen years, there will be a visible movement or even a solution that will relieve our environment of all these poisons that have emerged in these years. That is why and, of course, also for the concern that this government will give to all minorities in our country and in our place, I vote today for the mandate of Mr Borut Pahor, convinced that he will be able to speak wisely, in his own style, in dialogue and, if necessary, and when necessary, also to act decisively and effectively in the interest of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Joško Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar! Dear Mr Borut Pahor, candidate for the term of office and candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! As you have all heard, at the DeSUS Group of Members, we have decided to jointly support this candidacy. It is my great pleasure to confirm this once again in person, this decision, in particular assuming that there are many common interests in this coalition agreement for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. I personally believe that the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Slovenia will be satisfied with this election. I would like to congratulate you on this election! But personally, you will become the guardian of content by choice, and I am sure that this coalition agreement can be well and qualitatively implemented under your leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u48	Good afternoon, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, welcome. Slovenia urgently needs a Government with full powers. There are many serious problems in society, visible and hidden, and even those who are yet to come. Many conditions are painful and difficult to save. The fact that in a painfully high percentage of poor people, redundancies are a daily phenomenon should be seen as an alarm. The situation in the economy and in the ethical system should be seen as a disgrace to politics. This must begin to solve problems in the full and long term, but not in the way that future government parties do when forming a coalition. Everything looks as if their sole purpose is to take power, so it is relaxed, promised, enforced and nothing shows that they are aware of their responsibilities to all citizens and citizens. That's what I'm worried about! But in the Slovenian People's Party we are aware of how important it is that the new government starts its work as soon as possible, so I am voting for the candidate for the mandate, Mr Borut Pahor. I respect the will of the people and the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, I tell the new mandate-holder that I will continue to be a well-intentioned and rigorous observer of government action. The starting point for my definitions will be the synthesis of the real needs of my environment and of the Slovenian people as a whole. Five minutes is not enough to touch all areas, so at least one thing: I will closely monitor the attitude of the new government towards coherent regional development, towards decentralisation, because I think it is my fault that we do not have the provinces on the side of those who make up the emerging coalition. In my coalition contract, I saw direction on community funding, which is going in the direction that the richer congregations will be richer and the poor will be even poorer. If the municipalities do not have sufficient resources of their own, they do not have the means to be effective. They need to provide adequate resources, which they have after the current mandate, when they have the resources provided, we can assess their performance and also their effectiveness. The construction of the coalition contract also states that local self-government should also be implemented through the realisation of the people's financial resources. I am confident that the municipalities will already be able to withstand the maximum amount of looting that is available to the population. I note that coalition parties have overlooked that, thanks to the successful operation of the municipalities, Slovenia has also experienced a boom in the countryside. The quality of life in rural areas has improved significantly by investing in municipal infrastructure and infrastructure for the implementation of education, education, basic health care, culture, sports, which reflect the successful and effective work of municipalities. We must by no means allow this development to stop. National policy must be aligned with policies at local level, and do not let God overlook the achievements achieved at local political levels. When I study the coalition contract and the conduct of forming a government team, I'm worried. I am concerned about how the new government will understand Maribor as Europe's cultural metropolis, how it will understand the Maribor University, how many ministries will move to different parts of Slovenia, how it will evaluate the professional and political competences of individuals from this area. These are my expectations, and they're Styria's expectations. Will Styria's coalition and future government always be interested only in pre-election time? These questions, at first glance, are truly Styria questions and are also Slovenian questions. For more than one reason, I will be very careful about these issues and about the conduct of the government in general. How the new government will deal with the problems of students, young people, workers, farmers after it has already given in the coalition contract to a party representing a party to the pensioners. This does not indicate the ability to manage long-term vision and complete justice for all. In the Slovenian People's Party, therefore, the candidate for the mandate is my voice and the need for rigour.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for the term of office! It is perfectly legitimate that the opposition or parties that are not an integral part of the coalition government already show their opposition attitude in the election of the mandate holder, which we will witness at this temple, for the next four years. To tell and announce today what areas of government policy presented by the candidate for a mandate, you will not agree and will try to set alternative solutions in the future. But in doing so, even in today’s interpretation, you must also be credible and credible. And today's debates, in particular of the largest opposition party of the SDS, did not have this sermon, at least not in my opinion, and neither did they have this basic purpose. Already in advance, through this debate, you have felt completely and you have expressed complete distrust of the government policy presented over the next four years. In interpreting this mistrust, however, there is also an excessive amount of misdirection and sometimes untruth. Perhaps it would be wise for such interpreters to stop for a moment, just as I am today at the end of the Celovska road, in front of a large jumbo poster that says he's lying, but if you're lying, he's lying. And then we would talk and evaluate, as has been said today, some joint planned slowness between the President of the State and the future mandate-holder in the formation of the government or in cases related to the Sova, Patrio and so on. And such interpretations, not least the views that we have within the SD, are true for the parties to communicate. Finally, let me tell you what I expect as a positionary Member of the future government and also of the Prime Minister, today the candidate for a term of office. That the future government would know and manage the recession and the financial crisis, which would be the cause of this recession, especially with the eyes of citizens and citizens and their position, and not only of capital and capital owners. For I believe it is the crisis of the system, the crisis of values, the crisis of greed, which has no borders, and which has put into great question the system of the market and free economy that we are enjoying today. As a transition state, however, this crisis is even more vividly presented to us through the daily stories we are experiencing. From tycoon stories, acquisitions, greed, including those who have had confidence in managing this country over the past four years. That is why, of course, I have high hopes that the future government will act differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Member of the Parliament, Borut Pahor, colleagues and colleagues! However, it is necessary to say that the confidence gained by the SD in these elections, by one vote or by one parliamentary term, is greater than that of the Slovenian Democratic Party, given territorially in only three constituencies, Primorska and two Ljubljana units. What about the other five constituencies in which the Slovenian Democratic Party gained confidence? Mr. Commissioner, you resent the words, your words and ours. I've always resented it myself, and of course I've never accepted it. This is also evidence of the leadership of the congregation, which I am already in charge of four mandates. We don't know that there. Even more. Not only are we putting candidates from the Slovenian Democratic Party on the list of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we are putting them on the list of candidates. Because this is exactly what we want, without yours and ours to take things forward. And the way we're taking them have been evaluated several times by voters and four times by voters and voters in the 8th constituency of the 9th constituency. Many times, though, it is very difficult, not fair and principled, but it comes out in the long run. Mr. Pahor, if you try to do at least a part of this, then you'll be successful. Unless you do, of course you won't. You didn't have to make a commitment in the middle of an election campaign to someone who says today that they're successful, that they're winners. They're not. Figo. You have only 14 members of the LDS together four years ago, 24 of them. They're successful at your expense. So, they stick to you, but I resent you so much that you ordered or decided, "We're a three-way." And here it turned out, sorry, "yours and ours." At that time, you made it clear that you will not be making a coalition with the Slovenian Democratic Party and this is a huge mistake. Some politicians who are, or I will say so, who are still on this political map with a little spoon on their milk sin, are already writing books and sharing the lions, which I think is childish. And some of the politicians in this troika are back. Back up. I don't know why. That they were so successful before? No, no, no. Because the election took place four years ago. Those who have returned are also partly responsible for today's crisis, and today and, of course, they have been sharing the lions around the takeovers, around the tycoons, and so on. Who has prepared such legislation? It is true that a lot of this happened at that time, however, colleagues and colleagues, for four years I led one of the investigative commissions of damage to social property, the biggest pigs that could have happened, at the very time that those of your current three, who are also considered victorious, but some of them of course came to you, were the most responsible for it. Unfortunately, of course, this is not a good trip, and at this time I think we would need a slightly better, wider coalition especially for the good, as you yourself have said today, for the benefit of this country, citizens and citizens. Where are you, of course? And it's airtight and hydromontage and so on. You can remember what you've done with this, especially in this area where I come from. The stories around DeSUS, which have been happening so theatrically lately, are probably due to the fact that DeSUS is the first time, I will say, it has progressed from four to seven Members. This is clearly due to the involvement of their President in the previous government. For the first time, DeSUS had a minister in the previous government, never before. Neither had their secretary of state, but of course they supported the government in one way or another. That, in the previous term, the legislation that the then President of the Government of Rop changed to worse for the pensioners, of course, is not only because of DeSUS, far from that, this is due to the entire government coalition because the government coalition has decided to do so. And on these results, or on this field, are the current results. I, Commissioner, agree with you in this case when you want DeSUS to take over the Committee or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Regional legislation will change, employment issues and so on are of course very large and it is right that we do have the right pension legislation, so that it is not necessarily the only ministry or that this is just what you give them, but the most important thing is that they prepare pension legislation so that it will be better for citizens and citizens, and in this case I agree with you. I'm worried about what I started. You've gained confidence in three constituencies, in five no, Commissioner. You did not get it in those constituencies where the highest unemployment rate, the highest rate of poverty, etc. You did not get it because the political option lost it four years ago and mainly because it did not ensure coherent regional development. You didn't get it in these constituencies either. Nor is it because you are guilty that it has not been adopted or that you are guilty that the provincial legislation has not been adopted. Your Members, some of them in general, have played a double game. But I'm curious, and I hope I get that answer, not today, but when you introduce the ministerial team. You yourself, Mr Pahor, wrote down or said at the press conference on 28 January: "As he said, it takes more time to prepare quality legislation. In this regard, he stressed in particular the Law on the Financing of the Regions and the Law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the provinces. He also mentioned a discussion on the number of provinces." Mr. Pahor, discussion on the number of provinces, 14, 12, 8, 6 etc., you discussed this in 2003 when you were in coalition with the LDS. That's when that government decided there would be 14 provinces. One of the reasons there will be 14 landscapes was that we must not ignore the fact that Slovenia is a very diverse country with great geomorphic variability, which naturally makes it difficult to create large gravitational regions. It's eight years from this, and we don't have any. Over the past four years, this coalition has drawn up all this legislation, and, Commissioner, believe that you will not have a problem in the opposition if you come with this legislation, which it has already drafted, and add something else to it, add some of the powers you wish to bring from the country to the province. I'm sure we'll turn it around. Add additional resources. We'll be sure of it. However, believe me, we will not let you remove a single branch from this legislation, from what is already ready, because it is good for this country, for citizens, because it is good for better coherent regional development. This is what everyone in this Europe knows, only our good, the best SDs didn't know, and, of course, that part of the LDS that's left behind. And that's not a good message. By what time, then, will you prepare? Until this legislation is ready. I'm afraid you'll take the money back to the congregations. I hope you don't hope for that. Trust me, then we'll do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. Just as Ambassador Kumer earlier said that it is right to point out what we do not agree with. Why? Because we do not want to do such things because we want to do what is best for this country. Of course, I also find it very difficult for him to believe, because if he speaks here in the National Assembly to lie in such a way that it will be fair, then of course it can only happen in this left troika. I don't know, and I can't lie in a way that's fair. It is true, Sir Kumer, that some in court have lied in such a way that it was fair for the court to condemn those who said they were lying, which was, of course, unfair. And this stain of injustice remains. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, because Milan Kučan supported this left troika and was also present at the celebration of the accession of Primorska to the home country of September in Primorska, when Prime Minister Janez Janša spoke. At that time, the entire universal Slovenia with him, probably those who were at home, stood and applauded his speech, but it was evident that the entire audience there also applauded his address when he spoke about relations with Croatia. And when he said we didn't owe anything to pay the price with Italy, and then someone who was the moral authority of this left troika, so Milan Kučan, when Mrs. Štefka Kučan applauded her, pushed her under her chest so that her hands fell down. Colleagues and colleagues! I wish such a relaxed state that we should not even clap at celebrations when our heart beats. Mr President, I wish you every success in running this government. I am pleased that you have introduced the amendment of the Government Act, as has been imposed here in the National Assembly, the Slovenians Act or the Slovenian Ministry in the world, where we have much work to do. And at this point it is really necessary to engage very much, because the pigs that Italy is currently doing are incomprehensible and will have long-term consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u52	Thank you. There's a MEP with a word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President-in-Charge! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, Members are faced with one of the key issues, a very important question, the question of the mandate-holder. I will personally support your candidacy, Mr. Borut Pahor. I will support it because I respect you because I think you are a constructive, patient and, above all, a positive politician. But I would still like to put a few things on your heart right now. First of all, it bothers me, too, that the government is forming slowly. What bothers me is that, at least in public, the biggest talk was about pensions. I think there are many such social issues that need to be discussed. More importantly, today is the question of how to save the Slovenian economy in these crucial or very difficult times that are ahead of us. In your coalition agreement, you also wrote a lot about state property. My opinion, of course the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, is that the Republic of Slovenia must certainly remain the majority owner in certain key financial institutions, as well as infrastructure companies and certain other companies. However, I am afraid that some of the presidents of the parties in the pre-election period have announced the sale of state property. I ask you, of course, when you take over the leadership of the new government, not to do so. I do not want the same thing to happen in the Republic of Slovenia as it did in our neighbouring country. Now we see what problems the Republic of Hungary actually has. I also regret that this coalition agreement does not mention the field of oil and gas. In my opinion, this is an area around which the whole world is actually spinning. But with us, it's like it doesn't matter. I have important questions for me: what will happen to Petrol, what will happen to Geoplin, and not least what will happen to Nafta Lendava, and I ask you that when you decide on this part of energy policy, I hope that it will not be the same as always that they decide about this work, but do not misunderstand me, I do not mean anything bad, electricians, but that it is also very, very serious talking about this area, but especially with a shaking hand. Finally, I regret that I will obviously remain the only prime minister in this independent Slovenia. I hope it's still time and that that changes. In fact, sometimes we hear people coming from a distance to Ljubljana that we are simply because we are coming from a distance, but priors are less capable. I believe that the capable people are also out of Ljubljana, and I hope that you will also take this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate for the term of office, Mr Pahor. I would like to tell this High Council that, of course, there are a number of reasons why I will support the candidate for the term of office of Mr Borut Pahor. Most of these reasons stem from the Social Democrats programme that we went to these last state-level elections. There are some reasons, of course, also in the coalition agreement, which I see primarily as a constructive possible compromise between the parties that will form a future coalition. Because, despite the fact that we are in many respects of very similar thinking, there are still minor differences between individual parties and their programmes, and therefore I would count to a large extent in favour of the candidate for a mandate holder, that he took so much time to try, at the outset, now to clear up all possible issues of dispute, but not to go into the formation of a new government with some unresolved programming points, not to say, perhaps even with what figure in his pocket, which would later prove to be a very disruptive for a successful path and a successful work of the future ruling coalition. And let me just add here one more reason that might get stuck in the air if we didn't say it exactly, and people, because they're watching the transmission of the National Assembly, can also accept it wrong. The reason why the current process of forming a future coalition and government is a little longer than the one after the last elections, lies in the amended electoral law in the National Assembly, where we are, and many of us here were then Members, has extended the deadline for obtaining votes from abroad. And of course, part of this reason has caused the time to move back for at least one week to that final proposal for a new government, with which the candidate will now be, then I believe, of course, also the elected President of the Government, to come up with a concrete proposal. However, there is one thing that I would like to stress in particular and which convinces me in particular that I will support the candidate for a term of office, for the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. Even in today's opening act, he has made a very clear point of the importance of the rule of law. This is something that we have had a lot of problems with in the past term. And this is also something in the area where a lot of damage has been done in the previous term. You know, respect for the rule of law, rule of law, respect for the division of power, all of these are not legal futility, this is "condity sone qua non", which is the most urgent condition without which there is no democracy and not a democratic state. And it is the very hope that the future government will, to a greater extent and consistently respect the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, instructs me to decide today as I will to support Mr Borut Pahor. Let me just mention something that I'll probably never forget. About two years ago, as a member on behalf of the Group of Members, I asked Janša how he viewed the fact that the rule of law is walking with us, that we are facing the erosion of the rule of law, that we have many problems in this area, and what measures the Government is planning to prevent and halt further erosion of the rule of law. At that time, Mr Janša, President of the Government, answered me very briefly and very arrogantly: "There is no problem of the rule of law, so there will be no action." But we knew at that time and today we know even better that the problems of the rule of law are and that these are very serious problems of the rule of law. Indeed, just a few years ago, we were able to present ourselves proudly in the international public, how Slovenia, in a short period of 14, 15 years, has actually managed to substantially raise standards in the field of human rights, how it has managed to establish a truly democratic state, democracy in that country, and how it has always been before the eyes of all of us under the rule of law. Today we can no longer claim this; today we can no longer be proud; it is an irrefutable fact. Another thing for which I will support the candidate for a term of office, and I also look forward and expect much from the new government, is that the new government would make a significant contribution to raising the reputation of the National Assembly. And that it should no longer be repeated that the National Assembly will be merely a voting machine and an extension of the term of the executive branch of power. And that it should no longer be repeated that the good or even excellent proposals of the opposition will be heard and rejected. So that what comes from the opposition species will be heard when, of course, it is positive and well - intentioned. I also have the hope, which is very personal in nature, that I will also be allowed as a coalition Member to ever object to my own government when I am convinced that the proposals coming from its kind are not good, useful or even harmful. And I am sure that this will work, especially because of the personal characteristics of the candidate for the mandate, Mr Borut Pahor, I know that he does not swear by the principles of command and command, but that he can also listen to other thoughts and other proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable candidate for a term of office, honourable Members, honourable Members! Today must be a very happy day, as my colleague Sayovic said at the beginning of the presentation of the LDS Group's position, a happy day for the media, a happy day for the entire left, even if we know what is ugly, terrible, terrible was written about this government that is leaving today, and especially about Prime Minister Janez Janša. Of course, most of the comments, the most frequently expressed name Janez Janša was by a party that had significantly more posters than it had won in the elections. But it is if you have a good capital back. Dear future coalition, today you can rest, you can rest, for today there will be no Janez Janša. We finally got rid of this ugly, authoritarian and undemocratic leader. Today is a new day, as I would say, former President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, who, by the way, has also been on the road to Mr Borut Pahor's policy. So today is the time for responsibility for change. There have been elections to the National Assembly, which have shown that, obviously, with an extremely negligible difference, however, people support the new government or the Social Democrats to be more precise, and, of course, the will expressed by the people in the elections needs to be respected. Voters are always right and we are also aware of this with all responsibility in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But we can't, and I can't agree to the records on my own, probably pitiful, but we're already used to it, in the media, to act insulted because we haven't been reconfirmed. That certainly doesn't hold. Unlike you, who will once again be in coalition, in government, we are used to working in the opposition and also fighting out of opposition. And, at least today, I can say this with certainty, precisely because of the values that the Slovenian Democratic Party has, it cannot happen that, after the elections, because we are no longer in power, we have broken into the Prafectors, as has happened to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which, at various times today, operates under the government in the form of Zares, some of them of the Social Democrats and so on. However, I would like to remind you today of how difficult and unrelenting times have been during the government of Janez Janša, as reported to us by the Slovenian media daily, those media which, before the elections, I think, have been very biased in favour of the left political option, which, by the way, also openly cheered for the future mandate of Mr Borut Pahor, who, last but not least, directly agitated and called on voters through their columns and articles, how to determine who they should choose to join us in a new period of milk and honey. Let me remind you, the government of Janez Janša has been in its four-year period, but I can say that it has actually had only three quality years to operate, we have been chairing the European Union for six months, it has also been reviewing the situation around the back, it has had high economic growth and it has achieved the lowest unemployment rate. This government, which has been so evident, has simplified bureaucratic procedures, reduced notary tariffs, introduced free textbooks for all, regardless of the social environment of the student. She introduced a free kindergarten for another and all other children. She introduced a subsidized hot meal for high school students. It has increased social benefits and child allowances. She began to work, not least in the field of road lobbying, and thus accelerated the construction of highways. It introduced vignettes and thus faster traffic flows. It also began by persecuting economic crime and so-called tycoons, who, in fact, at the expense of taxpayers and small people, most of whom you like to talk about in the social democracy, have acquired state property overnight and have also become rich. This government also completed the construction of a paediatric hospital and an oncology institute, for years and years without any real will. Even the secretary had to come over there and see that it wasn't working. And then it started. Finally, the Štuvian tunnel was opened. There was an open bridge highway. This government has introduced anti-smoking law, and as a result, research has been shown today to help reduce the proportion of smokers. It is also said for the collective good of Slovenian health, the health of the Slovenes. Last but not least, this government, which you have most often seen as undemocratic on the left, has begun to regulate this area by enforcing Romani law. And not just that. It has also begun to regulate or regulate the field of same - sex partnerships. There was always a lot of talk on the left about it. There's been a lot of attention, but in eight years, there was no regret on your part of any realisation. That's what this government has done, and you're reading it as undemocratic. I am confident, Mr Borut Pahor, that you will do your work properly and well. I believe you are also very well aware of your slogan or your leadership for change. But if you don't do well, I'm sure you'll have some good whisperers anywhere near you just in case, just like at one of the last pre-election meetings; but it's not that important. I am also convinced that Slovenian political space needs a prime minister to meet the challenges; I believe that you will be able to prove it. And the Prime Minister, who will be in good physical condition; we believe this, you have proved this many times. Besides, I missed you on the Ljubljana marathon, but I understand you had important things to do. It is right that you complete these negotiations on the composition of the new government as soon as possible. I wish you a lot of success, of course. Above all, I would like or think that Slovenia needs a prime minister who will not rule out. I know we're both coming from the same parts, but I must say, despite all this, that these commitments, which you've once repeated so much about not excluding "ours" and "yours", are unfortunately not yet being fulfilled. Unfortunately, you have excluded the Slovenian Democratic Party from all matters, which I do not think is very good, even if we know that the Slovenian Democratic Party has actually received only one parliamentary seat less than your social democracy. We must not ignore the fact that you have an extraordinary sense of beauty and aesthetics. Last but not least, you have been chosen several times to be the most well-dressed politician, which is certainly a recognition. Also, the fact that you are indifferent already knows every Slovenian, but in case we do not remember, remind us kindly again; of course, there is nothing wrong with it. In the interviews, you also said that you like the light - I hope that we will not have problems because I am black and that we will be able to work together well. I will vote myself in accordance with the announcement of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. But I can assure you that I will support those projects that are good for this country. Until those projects, which will be exclusive to another policy option, I will be sharp and I will say it out loud. Dear Mr. Pahor! Since I have no doubt that you will be elected today, I want you to do well and that you will work successfully for the welfare of all Slovenians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Today, of course, there was a lot to hear about disfellowshipping, but I didn't hear anyone rule anyone out. Some in their deep traumas rule out themselves. I hope there's very few. And I would go back, more than form, to content. Whoever wanted and had a desire is, of course, the draft coalition treaty, which is and will be the basis for our work, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we see this many times. And I am very glad that even those who saw her have told me that they saw her not having a substantive discussion about her. Apparently, it's a good, high-quality basis for the work of four parties. I've read it myself several times, and I have to say that I judge it well. The figures were a fundamental emphasis on the economy. If we all create together successfully and much, then we can share. Everywhere where division is discussed before creation, they make a mistake. However, I must say that in the past term we have been in a record debt to Slovenia and Slovenia, and above all to our country, which we love. We also want a competitive tax environment for the inhabitants and residents of our country, and surely, in the coalition contract, there are content that is stimulating for people to stimulate, on the one hand, to save, and on the other hand that those who work more will also have more. It was about agriculture. The aim of agriculture is three pages with broad and important content. Agriculture and rural areas are also subject to the approach of an important environmental regulator, not just the food producer. But of course, we want to stop building on the best fields and surfaces, to increase the proportion of self-sustainment by the Slovenians, especially not to sell our rurals, and to deal with all such things as, say, a hit in the world, a genetically modified food that means, for one moment, a huge gain, and on the other, a danger or even a collapse, we can not open the door too much to the track. Even such little things are subject to a coalition contract of concern, such as the care of our gray, cranberry bee. And whoever reads this with their eyes open, with their heart wide, will see that there is room for all the content. An important area in which the Slovenians have been overslept is also space, and above all the environment. On 15 July 2009, moments of truth will come. What we don't have in the area of waste management, for example, we're going to start paying. And in this country, the principle that is in line with the European doctrine that the originator pays must be definitively enforced. If you consume water, electricity and other goods, you cause waste, and you pay for it. People simply need to be stimulated in this direction in order to behave sensitized and cost-saving. I was happy, and I read the sports chapter several times. We were Slovenians, we are and we remain a proud and broken sports nation, we have a narrow peak, top of the top, outstanding athletes. Look at some of the statistics they put us in Beijing. However, it is also necessary to provide for a number of societies that play an important role in the upbringing of children and non-competitive recreational sports. It states that this coalition will seek solutions where the economy will be stimulated and tax rewarded if it invests in this sphere. It is also detailed in the field of social affairs. For everyone, but also for individual treatment and separation carefully on those who are unable to work and need help, and also under the lookout, take those who do not want to work. We've got a lot of them. I was glad to see that on November 1st, we finally passed that time and fought for a state when no one lights a candle with a sense of victory, no one else with a sense of fear or, God forbid, no one with a sense of shame. As far as postwar history is concerned, I am sure that we will resolve this mandate and place on all sides a worthy monument with a name and a surname for all those who die. Public health is an important topic. Health homes have been and must remain the foundation of every system and we will therefore fight. We did not say in the coalition contract, nor concessions, yes, but in those areas where things cannot be settled differently or better. The level of Slovenians is also the judiciary. Certain people have been waiting for more than a decade to come. The judiciary is also an important area, desire, ambition, as well as clear content on how to regulate them. And so it is simply, as I said, today is not the day to look for hair in the egg, but to look ahead, to guide the mandate-holder on the road with goodwill and optimism. We can read several times that every thought is also energy and that it is somehow realized. The good ones and the good ones I wish you, it'll be good for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs. Melita Zupevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. With all that we are listening to today, it is vital that we answer three questions: Where are we? Where are we going? How are we gonna get there? In recent months, we have heard much about the various percentages, the envious economic growth we have witnessed, the percentages expected and expected from the new government by the opposition, and the percentages we would like to see will not be. Let us be honest with citizens and citizens. Every good master knows that in golden times it is necessary to make supplies for a bad time. The master, who is leaving the government palace today, has left no stock. Even the opposite. In good times, his team "was spending on supplies". It's right to know and to tell the public where our starting point is. Not only do we have a global crisis, but we have serious problems behind our domestic walls and a new government will have to face them. Where are we going? Let's go in uncertain times. And at the threshold of these uncertain times, citizens and citizens have decided to change. Change for the better. One is the economic and social change that has already taken place today, and I believe there will be a lot of talk. And I would have touched one of the other changes myself. Changes in governance, changes in accountability, changes in the way the new government thinks and understands that this country is being administered and not owned. And that is the quality that in these times may be the most important of all. And how are we gonna get there? The only answer is: with consent. Together. I don't know a man who'd be willing to offer his hand as many times as the future Prime Minister has. And in these times, it is a virtue that deserves all respect. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the opposition! The election's over. Put down your weapons and ammunition and think of all citizens and citizens once for a change and not yourself and for your own benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! Because of the coincidence of time, we are now witnessing a comparison of our and the American elections in the media. These comparisons are more or less serious. A serious comparison is mainly about Obama bringing hope to America. Then there's a whole bunch of economic analyses of what happens after the U.S. elections to the people of the United States. Unfortunately, after the elections in Slovenia, there may also be some fear that the years of prosperity and steep growth will be slowed if they do not even go back. A less serious analysis also suggests that Obama was never a member of the ZSMS. The candidate had a nice presentation, maybe some point was missing, maybe he deliberately pawned some of his papers from his presentation. However, doubts arise on the basis of past events, i.e. doubts about the background people who influence them. One such event occurred when he took over the client. When he began some measures, the "old boys" soon showed him who could be sweeping around the house. They then sent him partly against their will to Brussels, where he proved to be a good public figure in the international community, leading him as a promising young policy in Brussels. However, there was no more visible role among Slovenian Members in Brussels, as some of them were more visible. The biggest damage is when it was not given last year to run for President of the State. After one year of the work of the current president of the country, we have already heard some remarks that it is not what they expected in the world. I will not give that support to the candidate because he did not ask our client for it either. He won't have my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u64	Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u65	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Borut Pahor! If we look around the hall, it will be difficult to find many people who have the breadth, connectivity and self-restraint of politics, as is the case with today's candidate, Mr Borut Pahor. As a man, he always preferred dialogue over conflicts, against misunderstandings, always sought common paths, and these, dear colleagues and colleagues, were also clearly expressed by voters and voters, as he received the largest number of votes from all of us who are sitting here today. We need to know that on 21 September, voters and voters decided on social democracy and on Borut Pahor for several reasons. One of these reasons is certainly that I am sure that they have had enough and were tired of dividing into ours and yours, of which we speak so much today. They were also tired of various affairs, from various conspiracy theories. I don't understand how we've been listening to some of the plots by our Slovenian Democratic Party colleagues all day today that haven't even been overtaken by the President of the Republic. I'm very surprised! I understand you're hurt because you lost the election. You didn't lose them in shame. Every time someone wins, someone loses. But I assume you're more offended by the fact that our client or candidate for a term of office has not invited you to the coalition. I'll tell you for a minute what my vision is, why you're not invited to the coalition. Let's face it, we have very different values, not quite, but quite. We look at things differently. You heard the commissioner today. He's already calling again for government, not in his own country, as colleague Melita said before me, civil society, social partners, people experts. But we have been in recent years, my dears, witnessing that they have been in government and in public administration, I have been employed for the last ten years, replacing thousands of people just because they were not ours. Among them were experts, and among them were people who were loyal to all authorities, including secretaries. And this every such person who has experienced this has a family at home, this has spread all over Slovenia and the dissatisfaction with your government has been great. However, these values are so important that I am confident that the current mandate-holder will take them into account, that ministers will also take them into account. There's something else I'd like to say. I have a feeling you're trying to frame him for some indecisiveness over the duration of this government's preparation. Let me remind you that if the candidate for the term of office takes advantage of his legal option and presents the government on the last possible day allowed by the marriage, he will do so on the 63rd day, the president of your party, Mr Janez Janša, has spent 66 days to do so. So there's no tragedy. But it would be a tragedy if the coalition agreement and the formation of the government were done just for fun overnight. You yourself have warned that we have a very serious time ahead of us, and for these serious times we also need real and sometimes a little longer preparation. And that is why I will support the candidate for the term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u67	Thank you. Welcome to my first performance in this high choir. Allow me to congratulate the future mandate-holder and the current candidate for the extraordinary opening act. In this event, he explained the strategy and measures for the action of the economic and development policy of Slovenia, which I expect to achieve the third rise of our economy after the end of the deep crisis in the face of the collapse of socialism. The first rise was linked to the transition, linked to the introduction of the market economy, as well as the independence of Slovenia, by getting the right levers to lead our own economic policy because Yugoslavia was in this specific aspect ineffective. The second rise followed the adoption of European standards by our entry into the European Union and then by freeing up all trade flows and flows of production factors when we join the European Union and take over the euro. Growth over the last four years has been the result, started in 2004, as a result of this successful developmental venture, which Slovenia as a whole and the Slovenian economy, in particular, carried out at our entry into the European Union with "acquis communautaire" and so on. We are now faced with the possibility that, as a small open economy with sufficient human capital, we will make a third turn with enough prepared people and follow the footsteps of those who have managed to reach the most developed Member States of the European Union. The big market allows us to do that, the flow of information and the production factor allows us to do that. These were, for example, Finland and Austria. We can say that if we look across the Austrian border that this great happiness does not bring to people, they are no happier than we are, but the standard, after such a good developmental transformation or after one such long-term led development policy, still rises much higher than what we now have. Then I would like to stress that what the mandate holder brings is also a culture of cooperation. On my skin as a candidate for one of his team members, I felt that this culture had begun to improve in relation to the current government or with members of the current government. I must say that the measures that we will have at this meeting on Tuesday, according to the following meeting, have been prepared together, that I had an extremely fair relationship, that I had the opportunity, not only me, but also my fellow workers, to participate in those that were preparing to supplement both laws. Thus, these two laws will then be presented in a coordinated manner to the National Assembly and, earlier, to the Committee on Finance. These are laws that are modern, which are timely, and it is also essential that we adopt them at the time of transition from one government to another. And here this culture of cooperation, which the President has shown, I hope that the future president and current candidate for the mandate, with its achievements, has also managed to establish in some way in this society with a courageous attitude. I hope that such cooperation will continue. Finally, I have to say, there's been some minor embarrassment. Because the coalition contract is changing all the time, I was afraid that they'd "jumped in" or return to the tolls. I don't think so. I went to check. This awkwardness, which my colleague Tsukati said, has not happened, and I don't think that's how we predict the toll for passenger cars. We believe that the blames have been introduced without adequate study bases, quickly, and that the financial problems brought about by this introduction will have to be addressed with a specific project. They have also been introduced in a way that was probably, or unlikely, reliable for the rest of our neighbours and members of the European Union, namely friendly countries, and will achieve that this will have to be slightly changed, which will further increase financial problems. This is where we're gonna do the rehabilitation project. A few things remained open, as I discovered at the time of preparation for possible work in the future. And I wouldn't politicize it. Each of these open-ended problems will be addressed by a specific project, as will that developmental transformation to address the financial crisis. We will already present the project plan here and we hope that such cooperation will continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u69	Respectable. Good-bye to all of you. Today is no doubt a happier day for Mr Borut Pahor. And he's been smiling a lot, and I have no doubt he will. And yet it seems to me that there is a shadow playing all the time in this smile. That behind this smile is something that is not entirely honest, that he himself would have wanted it to be different. And let me tell you what the point of this story is. This fact is also responsible for the fact that the formation of this coalition treaty and this new government take so long. Why such slowness? For a simple reason. Mr Borut Pahor is now embodying the transition troika, the pre-election coalition that was created solely as a coalition against, as a coalition, united in ideological exclusion, prejudices and non-truths. More. Since Mr Borut Pahor is an extremely smart man, he knows very well how sad it is that only the valuable starting point of the new coalition, and thus the new governments, represents the malignment of Slovenia with non-truths abroad and how firmly I believe that he would have wanted it to be different. That for the first time they sat together, a development programme would be presented to the public. But you know when they first sat together? When they fought for the further centralisation of Slovenia and opposed the introduction of provinces in Slovenia, although this is almost unanimously confirmed constitutional category. And since it was a coalition against, based solely on prejudice and hatred, without any specific common agenda, without a common development vision, it is so difficult to write a coalition treaty and also then find people who would then be able to implement it. That's why it's all been going on for so long. But that, in fact, the foundation is as I said, but in some ways it is very sincere, but perhaps reluctant, as the former SD Secretary-General, the current SD MP, has confirmed when he told their guide: When you lie, you lie honestly. So it's a big deal. Why did he say it so honestly, I don't know. But I appreciate that. Perhaps it is also one of the reasons that there is no longer a large role model for which, in his time, the SD textbook was created, which, for the ideal performance of SD officials, placed our neighbour, now the deceased policy of Mr Haider. Those who do not know where the examples on which this authority is based are to look at this textbook. It has already been shown in this House. If necessary, we also have a copy of your copy, and we can bring it in if someone would deny it. Or, you know, amnesia in Slovenia is a very serious disease in this transition part of Slovenian politics, which is spreading enormously. In view of Mr Kumro's starting point, who said, "When you lie, lie honestly," let's see what happened to pre-election promises as well as some predictions and how, at the moment that the government has not yet been formed, there is a huge gap between words and actions. Because that's what counts. The actions count. Look. Before the elections, Mr Pahor said: "We will seek agreement on changing media legislation." Mr. Potts and Mr. Golobič immediately ran and said, "That's a lot of nonsense." Whose do you think she was in charge of? Theirs. Mr Ptræ and Mr Golobič were in line with the word. Not a word from a future mandate-holder. Who, then, will lead the new government in the situations you described? Another case like that. It was pre-eminently said, specifically on television, you can all check, "we won't interfere with the introduction of the vignette system, we won't eliminate them." The new coalition contract already says there's going to be a review, the vines will go as soon as possible, we all know that. It's just that some people get that money back in their hands that was taken from them. It's about lobbying inside Darsa and somewhere else that benefits from it. This is the part of the Slovenian tycoon, which may not have been so exposed before the elections, but it certainly creaked with teeth when a system of vignettes was introduced, which is in favour of the Slovenes and Slovenes, which is for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and citizens and which has proved to be excellent in only a few months. Then the promise was made, "we will seek full agreement on the definition of postwar tragic events." How I would like to believe that! But look, it's only been a few months since, on Human Rights Day, the first national celebration was to commemorate all victims of post-war violence and post-war totalitarian regime, there from 1945 to 1990. And just from the party that made this announcement today, there was no one. They even said publicly that they boycott it because they remember too well. And that we don't look back so much, because it's just a matter of great debate and even tolerance, let's just look a little closer. How should we believe big words about patriotism and about a positive attitude towards the country if they come from that party that had an MP who sent abroad day after day, week after week, even by their own statements, piles of letters and actually spread the untruth, hints, hints, slanders, non-truths. This is the sad foundation on which your authority is actually based. With this, you were reluctant to tell yourself where the real difference is. And you said yourself earlier, "games for very different values." Yeah, well, I agree with that -- it's about power. And if in this respect Slovenia is a collateral victim abroad, because you are littering the filth of the untruths about Slovenia abroad and then use this in various ways to convince the naive people at home, it is only in accordance with your values. But it is different for us, because we value the development of Slovenia, the strengthening of its reputation at home and abroad. And in fact, this attitude towards the country's attitude, defined by the value of patriotism, is that of the fact that it is the fundamental part of Slovenian politics. Not in words, words convey everything, but in deeds, for acts count, ladies and gentlemen! And for this I will tell you honestly, because I appreciate Mr Borut Pahor very much, we have talked to him about many things, I would love to vote for him, but today my voice will be against the profanity of Slovenia abroad. Against allowing anyone to take such a step and then to justify his authority, for it is a matter of values. You obviously have the only value of power, and you have succeeded, and I sincerely congratulate you on this, I wish you would be successful. But to us, we are talking about the fundamental common human values and values of Slovenian independence. And for that reason, I'm glad to be a member of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u70	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, candidate for Prime Minister, Ambassador and Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! In principle, politics works on the principle that there are so many changes every now and then. These changes need to be accepted without resentment and respect the will of the electorate and the electorate. We have a new period ahead of us, which I see as a period of great opportunity mainly for two things. First time. Slovenia has a difficult time ahead, a difficult time in the future, not just Slovenia, but the whole world. Therefore, we need to take full advantage of all the knowledge and potential that we have to work together to resolve the situation, and we can show that we are acting as a team where the colour of the jersey, when it comes to saving our country, is no longer important. Another time. An opportunity is also offered to a politician as one who, in the past, has dealt too much with herself and has, unfortunately, forgotten the needs of people. We can show that we are able to go beyond the differences between us, and instead we shrink species. Throwing pollen under your feet is not the right recipe. On the contrary. The recipe is to restore people's confidence in politics and politics. We all have a great responsibility to the electorate and electorate. And if it goes to anyone for us to sit in the Assembly today, it goes to those who have entrusted us with their voice. You forget that a lot of times, and that's not right. Some of you will probably say that we young and new are too idealistic about these things. Maybe it's true, but it's only because some people really believe it. None of us sitting here today believe that there is no interest in things going backwards or even worse, that we are getting worse, that we have more and more people living under or near the poverty threshold, that minimum wages and minimum pensions are no longer enough to meet basic living conditions, that young people are uneducated or educated people do not have adequate employment, if they get it, and that a good time is working for a salary that cannot be earned and that they can create their own family, that access to knowledge and health becomes a privilege when they should be the right for everyone. In the environment from which I come, namely Ptuj and his surroundings, we feel these consequences more than in the centres, so it is on all of us a great responsibility to develop Slovenia in a coherent manner and to put the interests of citizens and citizens at the forefront. These are my expectations, and I could still list them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, hand in hand, we need a new way. I'm willing to invest a lot of energy in the conversation and the agreement between us. Or as Roy Gore wrote in the past: Where there is will, there is a way. I can only add to this if there is a will between us, there will be room for a new path. That's why I see today as a historic opportunity. The candidate for Prime Minister Borut Pahor is a man I personally appreciate and respect. In my interest in politics, he has in particular aroused the feeling that we can also change young people a lot and that we can be part of the success story in all areas. If, of course, we assume part of our responsibility and reach the desired results with our knowledge. He never divided the people into yours and ours, and he always included those who were once his greatest opponents. He never took power as a prey, which must be torn apart immediately after the elections and collected the largest portion of it. With cooperation, discussion and agreement, and above all with sincerity, he has proved to be a great leader and politician of the new era. It is therefore a great honour for me today to be able to vote in favour of the election of Borut Pahor as the new Prime Minister of the Government, and I hope that you will do the same. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Before continuing, I would ask the visitors on the balcony to be able to monitor and listen, but do not express their consent or non-conclusion by clapping. The word is "ma'am mag." Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished candidate for the term of office of Mr Borut Pahor! I find such words here behind me as a young incentive, and they give me the energy for maturity in an older period, and I must say that it is also worth fighting and exposing because of this generation. Four years go by very quickly and promises are made. When I was preparing for this meeting, I read the Magnography of November 9, 2004. Perhaps it would be good for some to look at it for themselves and see what was given, given, and done in these promises. Even today we have listened to the promises made by our candidate and, of course, written. Those who know the coalition treaty very well also know what these promises are made on and how they will be carried out. Very, I will say, with a deep look and an easy heart to look at everyone here today in this Chamber, because in 2004 I was still part of the executive power and I surrendered power. And then I was very aware of what I had promised and did in the beginning of 2000. And because of this, the promise that was made here today is one of those that is called cooperation with local communities, which some mayors, after all, are worried about, my accompanying content and activity, which will take place in the next four-year period. Culture is above politics and is an integral part of all our lives and is a link. And because of this, it is also a large component of the local community. And it is my great pleasure to say that there was no exclusion during that period. On the contrary. We have worked very well with all local communities, mayors, regardless of which political options you were or were from. Because culture is above that. And if I find that the year after 2004, the first year was as soon as I believed some promises myself, I will say, bitter first year and even next year, because I have experienced some exclusionary words and actions myself. That is why I am thinking so much more today, and the promises made by Borut Pahor, I am deciding that these promises are made from responsibility to change. It is also a responsibility because I have known Borut Pahor and have worked with him for many years, and I also know how difficult it is to make a promise. For before this it is necessary to think carefully, to make a decision, and to have behind you men who will deliver these promises. And that is why I think that everyone here, who we are, and behind us is quite a few thousand voters, has been very responsible in the elections and on September 21st we wish success. And for that reason, we will all together be in this responsibility for change behind these contents, which were also given here today. Borut Pahor is a man who makes a sober and judgmental decision. That's not exactly everyone's class. And because of this, the days of the promises that were made here, what some of us will follow and after four years, when we will probably meet again or not, we will rediscover what they were and what all of them were not finally saved. Of course, there is one thing that will accompany me in these four years especially, so I am worried or not worried. Happiness is not health. Health is the content that's been following you through your whole life, through all generations. And the promises four years ago and the promises that are still in the field of health today are essential for all generations and, of course, for all those generations that are now mature and are accompanied or surrounded by people who need or cannot afford health. Finally, on 9 November 2004, the date was the date when you confirmed Mr Janez Janša's new mandate here. It's November 7th. On 9 November, Mr Janša also said that the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall was. Let me say that on November 9th, 1456, the date of the last Urlich of the Celei prince, when he died in Belgrade. The 7th of November, however, is likely to remain the same as the promises made, which have not finally come true after four years. Because of ourselves, who here very much believe in Borut Pahor and his work, and because of us all who added a drop in the coalition contract and in particular the responsibility to implement these contents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear candidate, Mr Borut Pahor, colleagues and colleagues! Today, journalists in the hallway asked me what was the difference between today and the day four years ago. And I said that there is no significant difference, except that the people of the government are tired after four years, and that the previous governments, which you are so demeaning, are tired after 12 years. And that is why it is also necessary to ask, distinguished gentlemen and ladies of the opposition. The fact is that this year's elections have been won by Social Democracy led by Mr Borut Pahor. The fact is that voters and voters have expressed their desire, their desire for change and their desire for a different rule. But I am aware that with such support responsibilities also come responsibilities. Borut Pahor has been a policy with many years of experience in several areas, policies that he has performed in his functions mainly fairly and firmly, policies that are capable, working, consensual, policies that he can listen to, policies that I believe he has walked several times, unlike other party presidents of Slovenia, so that he knows the essential problems of the people who live here with us. And I believe that he will also transfer all these virtues into the new government, into the functioning of the new government. In today's debates, respected primarily by the opposition, the most obvious is how slowly the government is operating, how slow the response to the difficult times ahead is to the coalition contract and team assembly, and I don't know what else, I could mention. Just for thought. The government still has time to form a government faster than the previous government, and not least Dr. Drnovšek made up governments in about 100 days, even though the times were different. Also interesting are the appearances of some opposition MPs, who list and read the latest performances before the elections, what this government has done, what it has done. It is interesting, however, that people in Slovenia have not noticed this. During the last four-year period in Slovenia, this government has not taken advantage of the opportunities it has had, in particular, economic growth, budget surpluses and everything listed. I am convinced that this government, when it gained power in the hands and the country, understood the country as a spoil to be collected first and then distributed. But to divide mainly among your own. That's why I'm sure and I know Borut Pahor will treat his team differently. When I listened to Mr Borut Pahor's opening performance today, I must say that I am optimistic despite the difficult times ahead. Of course, he stressed the fact that the economy is one that can be the engine of the state. And if the engine is well-oiled, then this engine can take us to a better time. Of course, without sound public finances, without a good tax policy that will encourage people and without education and, finally, without social policy, which will be the most important policy at that time, of course, will not work. For all of this, I believe Borut Pahor and his team are guarantors. The guarantee is also a coalition contract and the client programmes that will make up this team. I am a very real man, and I know that paper brings everything, but it is the most important work and actions. And if all of this goes together, then the results will come. Borut Pahor, you have my voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Patrick Vlačič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Respectable candidate for a term of office, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Council has changed significantly over the past few months. It enters a period of recession. The financial crisis is already shifting to the real sector. Some successful companies stop production, which also affects our country. In the United States, an African-American candidate won. One of the richest countries in the world, Iceland, is almost bankrupt. Many others are in trouble. The Stability Pact in the European Union is suddenly no longer at the forefront. State intervention does not seem to be as blasphemous as it has been in the past. And a number of economists who have talked until recently about the withdrawal of the country from the economy say that it might be wise for the country to buy a large economic system that is for sale. Until recently, we have heard from the President of the Government that the current candidate for a mandate is not right when he says that the recession will be severe. Unfortunately, he had a very good candidate for a term of office. Slovenia does not have all economic mechanisms available since the entry into the European Union, nor does it have full legal sovereignty. The situation is extraordinary, I'm sorry. [[...]] They're not extraordinary, but they're special. I would like the candidate for a mandate to receive the opposition's support for projects that are crucial to the welfare of citizens who are key to the country they have started and others. For the time to come is not a time to be conceited. At the same time, I am convinced that the candidate for a mandate wants the opposition to carry out its supervisory function, as his government will also be better off. For no one is without error. The one who works is also sinning. Already in the election campaign, he has noticed a number of things, both for voters and for politicians, that political parties' programmes are very similar. The fact that SDS was not invited to the coalition is not exclusion. It's just conceptual differences as to how to rule, how to treat public and private, for example, if you want to go to school, how to relate to the media and so on. Ideological differences are not bad. On the contrary. The company's getting rich. They don't always go together. That's the way it is. Government should not be its sole purpose. The coalition treaty is not as secret as they say. After all, it consists of pre-election programmes and is, at least from our client, still available to the public. Let me reassure you, the coalition agreement does not say that we will reintroduce the previous tolling system. It says we're going to revise the vignette system. Although it may seem an attractive thought to leave him, such as he is, completely unchanged, including responsibility for those who have accepted him. The incontinence of the national highway construction programme system is no longer a secret. With the existing system, this sustainability is not possible. Finally, the outgoing government stated that from 2010 onwards the toll system would be tolled in free traffic. So that's what you had in mind at the time. And once again, let me say that we didn't write down anything to stop the vignettes. It is said that the new government is being convened slowly. I don't think it's any slower than it was in 2004. You needed two months at the time from the election day to the composition of the government. The candidate for the term of office is still within these limits. There will be no major problems in this regard. An external observer would think that the government has been forming for six months, as we have experienced in our past. The President of the Republic reportedly set the date of the elections and some other dates after the elections. But that's his jurisdiction. Not someone else, maybe. If that's any charge, it's absolutely out of place. The coming period is full of traps, full of danger, and it can also be a period of opportunity. I think that Borut Pahor is the right person for this period, he is a great Democrat; this is evident from his attitude towards various branches of power, political rivals, media and others. In addition, he won the election at the head of his party, as our political competitors have acknowledged today, unlike the first meeting of this assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u78	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u79	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, and a candidate for Prime Minister. Welcome to today's debate, where I expected more substantive discussions. Indeed, the candidate for President has presented to us a programme of a future government that is expected to face much more difficult times than we have seen in the last four years. Therefore, I do not regret the time that has been spent for coalition partners to coordinate on content, on what will somehow regulate future government plans and on our future. I think it would be important to point out two key elements in particular, because I am more involved in social policy, so I think these two points from the performance of the mandate holder are so important. The first emphasis is on the promise to build such a development that will enable a better life for all. We know that 85% of our people's income comes from current or past work. It is therefore all the more important to re-establish the social partnership as the basis for the agreement between work and capital, than the way that regulates the balance between economic growth and on the other hand the standard of living of employees. This firm promise that they will sit together constantly and coordinate views and views is important to me because we know that 63.5% of people live below the average wage level and that wages are raised together so much that they move between half the average wage and 2.3% of the average wage, which is 95% of Slovenes and Slovenes. Therefore, building on what is also a European norm and what has been so neglected in the past even in the initial period of the previous government. The second point, which I think is extremely important, is, of course, to point out at what times of economic crisis we are entering, to seek a constant balance between what can actually provide us a better tomorrow - this is a development breakthrough, built on the establishment of mechanisms to make the economy work better and create, above all, new quality jobs with high added value, and this can provide us with European wages. And on the other hand, what is, of course, a relapse of every economic crisis, is that there is an increasing need to protect those whom this time and this game somehow eliminates. The Coalition Treaty summarized what it stated in the alternative government programme. In short, Social Democracy and, of course, the entire coalition will be committed to strengthening social cohesion and active social policy. This is supposed to be built on three key foundations. The first is the reactivation of an active employment policy. If you have read the Umar report, you have seen that funding for an active employment policy has halved in the past year. And an active employment policy can be the one that can most effectively help to find a bridge between supply and demand, among the possibilities to activate those that have been eliminated by the current situation in the labour market. In particular, I would stress a mechanism where the day is a much greater focus than before, it is for social entrepreneurship. For social entrepreneurship and its development can be the mechanism that helps activate those who are less competitive in the labour market. The second thing that is very important and very exposed in the coalition contract is, of course, access to quality services, especially public services. Equal access. We know that equal access can only be provided by a public network. The fact is that in the past period we have witnessed the erosion of this access, especially in the field of health, this is also very questionable in the field of education, and therefore I think it is more important to promise that a comprehensive reform of the health system will be carried out than that which represents one of the most painful points for most people. Of course, there is also concern for education and for the different forms of learning aid in that population that comes from families with less cultural capital. Look, you were bragging earlier about how much you've expanded the offer of social rights. True, many of these rights are welcome, but many times it was done so that the left did not know what the right hand was doing. In short, they were a lot of non-systematics. One such solution is also the scholarship policy. Now the applicants for scholarships are placed in a position to choose between the child supplement and the scholarship. Do you know what that means? This means that for those families, single - parent families and those families with multiple children, the social situation and opportunities for education have deteriorated significantly. And that's one of the first things we're going to be able to deal with. And then there's the third thing that's very important about this. This is also an appropriate level of minimum social security or minimum income. You know that the minimum income is €220 for an individual and €490 for a four-member family. Can you live with that? Answer that for yourself. In short, it is necessary to ensure that the minimum threshold of social security is at such a level as to enable survival and encourage the activation of individuals in order to re-enter the activity. Look, fellow Members and fellow Members! I've listened to these predictions of yours, and too many times we've had dark thoughts and even fortune tellers about what's going to happen. I think that this government deserves what all previous governments deserve: the right to show and open up before you how it will implement the programme set up. We'll judge her by these acts. In the final stage, it will also be judged by the electorate and the electorate, who are the fairest judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u81	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the future mandate-holder, respected colleagues and colleagues! I hope you won't mind if I start my speech by telling you that on September 21st, your dreams have been allowed, from September 21st to today, I think a lot of reality has been recognized in your work, but tomorrow will certainly start a whole new day for you, a new reality that will probably all be before easy. I believe you want to take Slovenia at the rate we have witnessed so far, and to continue to develop. I believe that many of your colleagues and colleagues want to do the same. However, I am sure that there are many who do not wish to do so, but they will probably not help you to do so. Why do I think so? Before the elections, throughout the election campaign, you've been explaining to the so-called three voters and voters how you're related to each other through programs. Oh. K., ideologically, this matter was completely understandable, but how related the programs are that there will be no difficulty in forming a coalition. But apparently that's not the case. You needed it from September 21st to yesterday, if I recall correctly that you signed this agreement. This is a long time for some programs that are supposed to be related. If that were true, I think we could just unite them, eliminate what really overlaps and the matter could be signed. And as you say, this is a coalition agreement. That's a word that gets me into a bit of a dilemma, too. Why the "agreement"? So far, it has been a coalition agreement, is it rhetorical or editorial matter that you decided to change it, or is there a less binding issue in this word in the background?Oh, my God! Your pre-election appearances have often predicted some changes. You took this right or explained that you would take responsibility for the changes. However, in your speeches, it was often noted that the general words, which are in pre-election times, were certainly, in more or less, all similar: "We should...," "We'll have to...," "We'll study..." "We'll see..." However, today this vocabulary is often used in your performance. I believe that you do not have all the answers or all the solutions today, but I would expect certain key things, at least I personally, to be stressed here in my performance, of course. Maybe you will. The progress of the events of this coordination, especially the so-called 'Cadra cuisine', I must say that it does not give me any optimism. You've spent a long time on a coalition agreement. Today, though, we hear that it is no big deal, that it is better to spend a lot of time on it. However, if you were so close to each other before, I am surprised that it took so long for you to reconcile those unanimity that they were, even now. I'm a little worried about how you're going to make up a government team or how you're going to make it. Although you have not presented the names yourself, in various media it is only the ability to recognize or read certain names that journalists write. Whether it will be suggested or not on your part is difficult to say, but I believe there is some truth to it. There are indeed some names that competent people, experts who would like to give their own voice and perhaps even propose such a function. Unfortunately, there are many names of such, but they will certainly not be part of this task. Of course, if you'll suggest it. So that statement that you will have a ministerial team with professional, competent personnel - I don't believe it, but let us also be surprised. You did not specify any specific solutions or expectations here. But I would now point out three, although I believe that you will not present any concrete answers today, but I will certainly ask this question of the Minister of Field in Hiring. I come from a region that is one of the most successful in Slovenia, with great economic potential, this is Dolenjska, Novo mesto. And already in the previous mandate, we have tried, not as politicians, but as an economy in particular, to achieve the key shifts in the area of providing staff, highly educated personnel. That's why we've been trying to get to our national university, I stress, the state university. The first step we've managed to make - we have the first university of state. The economy, the local community, and above all our young people want and expect us to get two or three more quality, especially the science and technology colleges that we will be able to connect to the university. I would like to know your position on the further decentralisation of higher education or university. Will the new team follow these expectations? Of course, our region wants to have its own region, as the Constitution dictates it to us or as we voted in the referendum. In your programs, at least I couldn't read it, there was nothing more concrete. Whether it will be an effort to reach our regions, for the regions will solve questions or we will receive answers to questions that we do not have answers to now as an individual congregation. The municipality of Novo Mesto faces major problems precisely in areas that, hopefully, will be solved by the region. And then there's the third one. For the lower economy, the so-called third development axis is extremely important, especially for the White Country. However, I do not believe that you will be able to give me an answer, but I would like you to stress that this third development axis will soon become the subject of accelerated treatment and construction, because without this link there will be no economic development, and above all this is important for the White Country. Of course, I wish you every success in your conduct. Believe me, I personally believe, as well as colleagues, that you will have support in all those decisions or in solving those issues that will be for the benefit of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u83	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will gladly, and also with the knowledge of the responsibility that this brings, today I will support the candidate for Commissioner, Mr Borut Pahor. I'll back him up because I have reasons for that. First and foremost, in recent weeks Mr Pahor has shown a great deal of discretion, including determination, in addition to his great negotiating ability to form a stable government. In order to achieve this, it is aware that the most acidic apples need to be bitten as soon as possible, and that is why the negotiations on the coalition agreement so far seem long, but they are not long, they are thorough and responsible, and you will finally see that they will be shorter than those four years ago. The second reason is the content of the coalition contract. This proves that the willingness to take responsibility for change is not only a pre-election promise, but the real intention, of course, or we will be able to do so, we will still have to prove it; and we are aware of that. A third reason is the current global financial crisis. It is at this time that we need people who are capable of creating the consensus we need to improve the current financial system and regulations. It is clear, however, that there is a willingness for such a consensus that we must all be convinced for such a consensus that we need it and that all involved partners must be activated in the search for this consensus. So I'm going to take a lot of cynical and bitter words from my fellow opposition today, because I really appreciate your intelligence and I believe that you might want to take advantage of some overly expressive pyruet just to have a little bit more media attention -- that's understandable. Therefore, let me conclude with the desire that this consensus will be able to be built, and with the expectation that today and beyond, when the opposition and the position are looked into the eye, this view will be kind and ready to trust the interlocutor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u85	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government of Slovenia, dear and respected colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia there has been a rebirth, which, despite the difficult situation on the world market, shows a perspective for Slovenian citizens and citizens and our country. I am very pleased with the proposal made by the President of the country, Mr Danil Türk, to elect a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, which is in line with the current political practice and the electoral results achieved, i.e. for Mr Borut Pahor. The 7th of November will probably remain in his eternal memory, as well as me, as I became today the first mayor of the Municipality of Metlik and the first mayor of the White Krajina, and I am, unfortunately, the only mayor of the Parliament. The confidence that voters and voters have shown us, Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, means for all of us here a great commitment and responsibility, including responsibility for change. That is why I expect all of us to participate actively in the development of Slovenia together. Of course, the implementation of the mission and the objectives is an extremely important programme for the 2008-2012 period. This should include as much as possible the development of the whole of Slovenia, as has been said several times today, of course also the Dolenjska and White landscapes, and especially the White landscapes, where I come from. This will not be possible without a quality transport link, as said my colleague Grill, because the third development axis, if we already have a strong economic potential in Dolenjska and White Krajina, must also come to our places. Today, however, we have a special problem in the white landscape in recent days. The textile industry has been a major problem for years. And in the last few days, it's also because 100 people are out of a job. 100 people without employment means today 300 citizens and citizens, Belokranjk and Belokranjci who are thinking about how they will survive today, how they will survive tomorrow. Therefore, I am very pleased with the presentation by future President Borut Pahor when he spoke about strengthening the active employment policy, the deliberate promotion of economic growth, and that more attention should be paid to micro and small enterprises and independent entrepreneurs, who will be self-employed and, in particular, to entrepreneurship facilitations, as well as in the area of housing legislation and the excellence of knowledge, technology and innovation. I believe that there will also be a need to think about the University of Dolenjska, but also about excellence in other areas. However, I must point out that because I am the mayor or also the resident of the area at the Schengen border and at the Slovenian-Croatian border, we have quite a few problems, particularly with Brezovica. For this you have probably heard practically everyone here when we have a problem when Kolpa's economy develops, has its own plant and must walk almost 70 kilometers around because Brezovica is not a small transition. This is also one of the pressing problems that have been brought to my attention in recent days by the people and residents of the White Land. A social sense of every person is important, but of course leadership is vital. Who is the person we trust to help and cooperate with? I am sure that such a person is Mr Borut Pahor, not only because he is a very determined, experienced politician in many responsible functions and tasks, but also because, on the other hand, Mr Borut Pahor is a person who knows what he wants. He is able to compromise, respects historical facts and wants to contribute to the greatest possible development of the whole of Slovenia. And what is also important is to enable a decent life for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. With his appearance and charisma, Mr Borut Pahor in people can arouse attention and trust in what is most important. As a man, he is simple and human, able to listen to people and understand a small man. This is also my nature, so I will do something for tomorrow: I will vote for Mr Borut Pahor for the President of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Mr Borut Pahor, I wish you great success in your work, we will work together, and as you yourself said at the conclusion, "One can't do much and together we can do much or more." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Borut Pahor, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Pahor, congratulations on your success first. The election result is well known, and I have no problem disregarding it so that I do not respect it. However, I must admit that I do not remember such a dirty election campaign, with so many lies, with so much mud, including Slovenia, through foreign media, and with one goal to discredit a political opponent, let it cost as much as it wants. Now we are in the next phase, when words have to be applied when the word becomes flesh. But I note something that any statement by the SDS, which is not entirely in line with the thinking of the current new coalition, is defined as "out of you greater resentment." And I wanted to avoid it so that I didn't get that reading, so I went a little differently. I looked through the archive to see what was going on in this hall four years ago when the applications were replaced, when you were sitting as the opposition and me in the second role. The first thing I noticed was that one of the members of the opposition, specifically from the LDS, was that LDS, before it was cut up as a salami, found that the mandate meeting was only after one month and six days. Today is one month and 17 days. That is said, almost 14 days later, and I wonder what that means, because probably the Member of that time was asking himself that question. I wonder whether there were too many candidates for this city; whether there were too many differences in the programmes and there was a desire in this electoral campaign to win too many lies, but now it is not possible to include this in the programme because it was not meant for citizens and citizens at the time, but for an electoral result; whether it is possible to treat all coalition partners unevenly; or whether perhaps the president of the country did not have time; or whether it is possible for anyone to like that, that the government has only been doing business for a long time and not for another. So today, this content takes a much longer time than it did four years ago. So you're not going to be insulting me, but it's just statistics. Another feature. The SD MP, who is still in these benches today, identified four years ago [[I quote Mr. Vebra.]] : "But I myself find that, after a speech by the candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there should in fact be the most difficulty in supporting directly within the envisaged parties who are supposed to form a coalition, and, of course, there is also a significant shift from the programme that was presented during the election campaign." Your Honor! I note that, given the information on this year's coalition treaty, we could say that if ever, then this year, it is indeed a huge breakthrough, a shift from the promise of a pre-election campaign and the content of the coalition contract, at least as far as the pensioners are concerned. Therefore, the question arises as to what was and when was the truth and what was the lie. Was Slovenia, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, or was it only possible to gain a narrow electoral result? Surely, though, there has been some discomfort among pensioners that the spears of this year’s election or approval coalition are breaking right on their backs. Another feature from four years ago, the attitude towards support for the then candidate. The then Head of the SD Group, then the ZLSD, communicated on behalf of the parliamentary group [[I quote Mr. Purchast.]] : "The Presidency of the United List of Social Democrats looks forward to a credible election of the Prime Minister in view of the electoral results and the discussions on the composition of the government so far. Therefore, he does not expect Members of the United List to support the election of the Prime Minister." And an even more significant statement by fellow Member, who is sitting here today [[I'm quoting Lady Mag. Majdo Potrata]] "It is equally predictable and expected that those who have not received an invitation to participate in or have not agreed to participate in the coalition will not support the candidate for Prime Minister. At least so far it has been common practice for us, so my conduct is in no way an exception or a consequence of some ornithological characteristics." So, Commissioner, I'm sorry, even if we wanted to support you, we don't want to be an ornithologist, so we can't support you. So, these statements from four years ago, I just put them up today, so that no one would be able to tell me how offended I am. Mr. Candidate, I want you to successfully defeat the livers that are and will be before you. That is why I would also like to avoid lying and deceiving and compromising in the course of the term of office as it is during the electoral campaign. It was repeatedly pointed out that with SDS it was "for nothing", but it was not the term used, but "but with them indeed not." We're in the same boat. And we're in this boat where you're going to be driving, and in this boat are yours, not just some. I wish you every success. But I would just mention that you're not going to tell me that I'm talking about lies. In fact, a few minutes ago, a lie was said here. It was said that this government did not leave the reserve or something that could be called "in the backpack, for the plus." This government leaves the positive balance sheet and remains a budgetary reserve. But it doesn't matter whether it's a lie or not. I want to say something else. If this is so that in good times something must be left behind in any case, then I would remind you of that sung success story. This was probably something good, but there was no budget surplus at the time. Even more! And I'm not going to tell you how manipulated it was, that the source was a little more beautiful, and yet it was almost catastrophic. So it was directly recognized here that this was not a success story. I'm not gonna say I'm glad you admitted it, because we've already lived with it ourselves, and you can't be happy with the bad. But the fact of the matter means that something was manipulated and something made up. To conclude, I would just like to say this, Mr President, and I would like to maintain it; that is, rapid intervention after storms and similar natural disasters is very important. And this government did it right at the beginning. I will mention only one thing that I know - the terrible storm in Slovenian Konjice, with a torrent, has been completely and financially settled earlier than in one year. In previous cases, this has dragged on for several years. I'd like you to keep this. But I wish you a lot of success, and as I said, we're in the same boat. All of them. And if one of us screws up, the other will. Not just yours and ours, but both! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u89	Respected and respected. There has never been a greater need to seek consensus to respond to economic and social insecurity through development policy. It has never been so important before that we step together to achieve our ambitions to promote the knowledge and creativity of all and communities as a whole. To create a new development momentum and turn the adverse economic circumstances into new opportunities for Slovenia's success. That's why I'm sure Borut Pahor is the right man for the challenges of time. The participation of all creative potentials is so much more important at a time when we need to restore people's confidence in the financial system, protect and preserve jobs when we need to boost growth and give the summer development and equal opportunities for all. That is why I am a great supporter of the intention that in the specificities of this moment, which requires increased social sensitivity of the whole community, we are looking for answers for the future in new development challenges: technological development, better transfer of knowledge and innovation into economic practice, a low-quality society, and a better support environment for entrepreneurship, jobs with higher added value and fairer wages, youth housing, quality public services and strengthening the rule of law. In order to fully gather the social character of Slovenia, we today need to significantly expand the field of its development opportunities. Respected and respected! My home is Maribor. Maribor has a rich experience of how deep it can be an economic and social crisis and what dimensions and consequences it can leave in the tissue and the pulse of the community. From that crisis, Maribor dug himself up. With the courage and perseverance of his people that today, according to some experts, the centre is the most intensive entrepreneurial activity in the country and the city of wide opportunity. That is why Maribor and the region today need special development attention from the country. I am sure that the Slovenian people have always been able to respond to the challenges of history at the right times. For this he drew strength in his modesty, honesty, and determination to change the course of fate. In a small nation that has been repeatedly condemned to extinction, today I see a proud nation in the midst of a connected Europe. Every time we have gathered courage and unity, we have been able to meet the challenges of our future. And this great experience and story of history teaches us that if we want to, nothing can get in the way of Slovenian dreams. In this, I am proud of the moment, we must be aware more than ever that the challenges of today may be the greatest in the life of a new generation. It is up to us whether we will be able to manage the Slovenian future in such a way that this hope will deepen in confidence. From election to election until now, this hope has become a disappointment. And this time it has to be different. Respected and respected! Dear Borut! I am proud to vote today for Borut Pahor, President of the First Social Democratic Government in the history of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u91	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Honorable Commissioner! I estimate that the procedures run quite normally. And I can say that preparing a team that will rule this Slovenia is not buying a car, and I can say that there is no need to have such a big sceptic today. And of course, experience teaches us that if you want to be overthinking, if you want to be thorough, if you want to think about it, then you need to sleep for a day. I am confident that Commissioner Pahor will draw up a team that will have real confidence and will be successful in the long term. In particular, I have read or listened to the presentation today, and I am particularly looking forward to coming out of the economy to give the economic field a great deal of attention. The economy is the backbone of the country, especially within the economy, emphasis on small and micro and medium-sized enterprises, which are natural incubators. And this needs to be given more attention. From this presentation today, I have seen this and I am sure that there will be a slightly better service in this segment of the country against these micro and small enterprises. Of course, on this occasion it must be said that things that are ready and have been brought here so far and are good must be supported. Everything else, what does not go into the excellent service segment of Slovenia, needs to be changed. I have confidence in the team, I have confidence in Borut Pahor, and that's why I'm going to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u92	Thank you very much. This concludes the list of reported discussers. He wants a candidate for Prime Minister Borut Pahor's word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u93	First of all, thank you very much to all those who have given me good wishes; of course, they will be considered if you so choose. First of all, some of my impressions from the debate. Some of you said it would be hard; others you said it would be harder. But we all said we would win if we were together, which I think is very important. About time to form a government. You're partly right. It could go faster. But you have two things to consider. The first thing is that we are dealing with a time of uncertainty that maybe in the first half or in the third quarter of last year we have not calculated as clearly as we can now. And my desire, the ambitions of the president and the presidents of the parties that could form the next coalition were to submit to our entire plans, our whole ambition to lead the government in the next four years, the fact that we will face this uncertainty first. And secondly, I honestly told you today, I have more questions than I have answers. And I think that's true of my colleagues. It's about support. Today I asked you to give me your support no matter what political parties you come from. I know you're not all going to do it. You have every reason to do it. To some extent, the candidate for prime minister is expected to be supported by a likely coalition, slightly less supported by the opposition. But I'd like to tell everyone, no matter how you decide, I'm going to spend more time in this high house than you expect. When I'm here with my fellow ministers, I won't because I won't trust them, but because I want to see in my ears how different the voice of the government is and whether the arguments the opposition has are better than those of the government. And if the opposition has better arguments, I'll take them. As far as listening is concerned. There's something here about my fellow Members from when I was in charge of the National Assembly. One tells us if, as president of the National Assembly in four years, I have given someone to call in my office - never, I have always gone to my colleagues and colleagues and asked them, gave an opinion, asked for criticism. And that's how I'll do it now, too, if you put me in the position of Prime Minister, if I have a wish, if you have a wish, I'll come to you, I'll knock on your door, I'll listen to you, I'll try to find what's best than anything we've heard in the debate. You said, there may have been nothing important happening in this interregnum; there were two important things happening - I was trying to say it quickly before, but it's not important - we agreed on the financial crisis and the answers. At the beginning of next week, the National Assembly will have before it a coordinated package of measures that respond Slovenia to the challenge of time. And maybe it was less publicized, understandable, it was diplomacy. We have reached an agreement on Croatia. I said earlier, maybe this was over-heard, you know that - and how Slovenian diplomacy ended this month or the previous one reacted on some foreign policy issues; in this regard we consulted and I said here: I support this decision by Slovenian diplomacy and the Prime Minister of the Government because he has a legitimate reason for it. And now two more things. Look. We all said that not only us, but the whole developed world is coming into some uncertain situation where everyone is looking for recipes to solve it. What we have heard here many times today from a number of groups of Members was this magnanimity, which I have highlighted, that we are not waiting for others ourselves, but that we are resourceful that we are original, and that, as far as possible, we are looking for some recipes for the crisis or for the uncertainty that we are going into. Finally, if I may conclude, Mr President, many of these dreams have been mentioned today. With them began my dear friend and former President, now Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukati and then you mentioned many more. And I remembered one of my speeches where I said about them: "If we, this generation, now, dream of our fathers and grandfathers' dreams and come to a country of our own, then we, as responsible parents of our children, must ask ourselves what dream we have for their future." Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u94	Thank you. Since the order of the panellists has been concluded, I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect a candidate for Prime Minister. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be a secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Mr Alexander Ravnikar - SD, Mr Robert Horvat - SDS, Croatian, I apologize, and Mr Villa Trofenik - Really and Mr Guido Kres - SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? I guess not. If not, I'm moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We vote 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Members will be given a vote by each Member to the President's table and to indicate his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for Prime Minister will be elected if voted for by the majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed voice box in the voting box, which will be on the table at the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 3:10 p.m., which is in 10 minutes, and will last until 3:25 p.m. Members who will assist me in the vote, please also meet in room 217 after the vote. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u95	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the interrupted 1st item on the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. I publish the outcome of the vote, namely the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 7 November 2008. 84 ballots were distributed. 84 ballots were delivered. There were 1 ballots invalid. There were 83 valid ballots. 59 MEPs and MEPs voted in favour. [[Let's hear it.]] The "against" was voted on by 24 Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Borut Pahor was elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. I ask Mr Pahor to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u96	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u97	Would you like, Mr. President of the Government, to address the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u98	I want to thank you for that trust. I don't see him as a Bianca menu, but as a big loan that I have to settle with my faithful work. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u99	Since today, with the authority of the President of the National Assembly, I hold this meeting for the first time in this Chamber, allow me to thank you for your election and your trust. I promise to respect the rules of procedure and act in my best interests and conscience. But I'd appreciate it if you'd help me with that. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the announcement to the National Assembly. [[...]] Since Member Borut Pahor has been elected Prime Minister of the Government, he is no longer in a position to act as a Member of Parliament, so I will immediately inform the State Election Commission and ask it to communicate to the assembly which candidate will replace Mr Borut Pahor in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. This notice concludes item 1 of the agenda. We're moving to 2. This is on the proposal for a decision on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. You have received the material presented by the College of the National Assembly. By the beginning of the examination of this point, you have tabled 9 amendments. The groups of Members have declared the time needed to discuss, and I, as Members and Members know, point out that all debates on behalf of Members' groups and also amendments are considered at the time declared in order to be able to make the appropriate use of the debate. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a decree. The first is Mr Vizjak speaking on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u100	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the parliamentary group on the Decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. First, I'd like to say a few bitters. In fact, it is very familiar with the submission of the Decree that caused some difficulties in the parliamentary group, so that we could also prepare appropriate answers in such a short time. I would therefore like to ask that in the future the situation takes place in a slightly more dynamic way, in the sense that parliamentary groups have sufficient time to form positions and also to submit them in a form, say, amendments and so on. First, I would like to assess that the decree is a normal document and, according to our assessment, it is somewhat flawed, so we have also amended it. We've prepared some amendments and I'd like to ask for more support. In fact, in section 1 in item 14, we propose that the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport be renamed the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth to add the word "youth" and then that is defined in the tasks of this Committee later. Here we have tabled two amendments for both the name and the content of the Committee's work and scope; therefore we want it to also deal with youth and its role and the situation in Slovenian society. The second content package concerns the Committee on the Economy. We propose that this committee is concerned or that the contents include what this committee has actually done in the past term and has done before. This is also through the sale of state property, by privatisation, foreign investment and also by the operation of companies whose majority owner is directly or indirectly the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, there has been a lot of talk in the previous mandate on the cases of Paloma, General Navigation and the like, and I believe that there will also be a lot of speech and many problems in the coming mandate, and it is true that Parliament is also a place to discuss this. I propose that new indents be added to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy with regard to the competence of the tasks, namely that the Committee also consider proposals for laws or other acts concerning public property and the functioning of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Capital Society. We estimate that this is very important and has already been carried out in this mandate. Then, of course, we also have a proposal on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, because we believe that it is very good or necessary for this Committee to also deal with the proposals of other acts and regional issues and other issues in the area of regional development. Similarly, we have a proposal for the Health Committee, where we are actually proposing to add a new indent, which is "to ensure the same safe and high-quality integrated health care" as the tasks of this Committee. As I have already mentioned, it is added to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth the "youth and its role and the situation in society". Your Honor! We have prepared some amendments that are aimed at improving the quality of the text and this proposal, and I think it would be reasonable and right to support these proposals more broadly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrey Vizjak. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Zares Group supports the Decree on the Establishment and Tasks of the Labour Bodies of the National Assembly. At the coalition meeting, however, we talked about how to provide appropriate attention to young people, namely, they do not have their own committee. The position of all coalition parties was that we would not go to the establishment of a new committee, but we are adding youth to the committee in the manner proposed by the SDS, which means that there is no talk of exclusion. Indeed, in the 2000-2004 mandate, this was already in this National Assembly, as opposed to 2004-2008, when young people did not have their name and attention in any particular committee. Similarly, things are regulated in most Central European countries, as youth content is present in various policy areas: education, employment, social, health, culture, housing policy. These areas, and the importance of highlighting the youth component within different sources, are also addressed by the Youth Pact, which is being implemented at the initiative of EU members. More opportunities for cooperation should be given to young people in the formulation of basic acts and youth policy strategies. The social situation of young people in long-term society shows that changes are urgent in youth, education and economic policy and that young people must be involved. An integrated approach to the future development of youth policy and dialogue with young people is needed. Therefore, in the first section of point 14, we propose that the word "in" be replaced with a comma, and the word "and youth" is added for the word "sport". In the second section in point 14, we propose that the word "in" be replaced by a comma, and the word "and youth" is added for the word "sport". It's not just the symbolic placement of the word "youth" in a committee. This action will also have real consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u103	Thank you very much to Mr. France Keck. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u104	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members has no particular difficulties in supporting this decision, but I must say that we regret that we have not taken the time to think about it, in order to share the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, because all those working on this Committee are disproportionately burdened, and you all know, at least former Members, what this means. But, however, we have been creatively involved in building the content of this decree, as it is, we also support most of the amendments that have arrived at this time. I must say that we quickly reached agreement on our group's distribution of individual Presidents and Vice-Presidents and thus contributed our share to the fact that the matter did not last as long as it did. In short, the decree has our support, and we hope that the matter will proceed as quickly and creatively as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Znidarsich. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the position will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we are satisfied with our work and, above all, with coordination and working methods. At the College of the President of the National Assembly yesterday, we mainly agreed on and agreed on more or less, so that I can say no to coalition members of the group, but all they received was what the electorate had dedicated to them in the elections. I have to say that we have a feeling about us, and we support it as well as others that everyone has got what they're good at. As far as amendments are concerned at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support most amendments both coalition and opposition. Of course, the youth world is standing, holding it for sure, but for young people this is the first step, we have put them on the committee, and now we will have to follow the actions as well. It will therefore be necessary to address specific issues relating to this important area. That is why, in coalition talks and negotiations, we have been betting heavily on sports-related activities, drug addiction prevention and the like. We also support amendments that will further expand the operation. Perhaps the only amendment concerning our colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party seems to us to have an insight into the functioning of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance. We have failed to do so in the previous term, unfortunately, there was no understanding of this in the area of the current position. But it seems right for us to arrange this today, and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice-President, for the successful management of the meeting, and for the future. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly, together with some amendments, i.e. with some amendments or a better-spoken majority of the amendments that have been tabled. It is true that there were desires or concerns in the drafting of this text that some working bodies would be divided into more to bring others together again, but in the end we decided to keep the content the way it is. Therefore, I am also surprised by the concerns about this decision, when the actual decision does not deviate substantially from the text as it was four years ago, there are indeed minor corrections. Thus, the amendments will be further clarified, i.e. by the Social Democrats, regarding support and non-support. As I said, we will support most of them. However, I would like to say a few words about amendments that are, in other words, substantively similar or quite the same, with the same content, SDS and Zares on young people or on youth issues. Here, too, we received a letter from all the parliamentary groups where young or young political parties want or expect us to have a special working body in the National Assembly in the form of a commission. Now, this amendment means that we have drawn close to this solution, but at the same time it can mean that we have drifted away from it. Depends on how we take it and how we understand it. I do not think that this concludes the story in the National Assembly and will continue in the future. The only fear is to trigger a reptile that was not there at the moment, a beach of desire for new commissions and new committees. Otherwise, I understand young people's efforts and desires, because we all talk about young people being young people's future. They will need to listen at times if we really want to turn these words into reality. So, as I said, we will support most of the amendments, and we will also support the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Given the start of the substantive debate, the committees are, of course, necessary. However, I must reject this criticism that the establishment of committees has taken place too slowly. Compared with past beginnings of mandates, we can find that the stories are the same, that time is not significantly different, and that when we actually stepped up the talks from day to day, we also reached an agreement that the President of the National Assembly at the College said was good, especially because no one in this Chamber was fully pleased with him.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Contic. We have exhausted the presentations on the positions of the groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. The first one has the word, Mr Franco Juri, indeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u110	In fact, it is a matter of implementing what has been previously presented as possible that interest groups within the working bodies are formed and functioning functionally. I will present an amendment to the new third section, which means the establishment and possibility of setting up specific working groups within existing committees. We are, therefore, based on the experience of previous years, especially in previous mandates, when it was possible and very useful for individual subcommittees in the State Assembly within the working bodies. We knew something like that between 1994 and 2004. For example, a working group on language planning and language policy issues, followed by a subgroup of the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy on pension and disability insurance reform, a sub-committee on tourism and a sub-committee on property transformation and privatisation. I also remember the times at the beginning of the first term of the National Assembly when we formed a special working group to help war refugees. From all this, we can conclude that what has been said previously in the framework of the amendment, which envisages addressing the subject of youth within the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport, can be added to this decision by the instruments set out in our amendment: "The working bodies of the National Assembly may set up working groups to deal with specific issues in their field. In their work, they may engage in professional assistance, as decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The working groups shall prepare materials for the decision-making of the parent working body and may participate in the work of the external, professional and interested public." So, a concrete proposal to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. I'm sorry, it's a change, Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor. Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Just as I personally supported Mr Borut Pahor for his term of office, thank God, on the 48th day after the election, I will absolutely immediately support the decision on the establishment of working bodies; thank God, the 48th day that we will start working in this country already! And I hope that these working bodies will meet immediately, start working, I hope that we will not wait for the next 48 days for so-called hearings - which is an ugly expression, hearing means questioning, I will listen to the candidates for ministers - that we will do this as soon as possible, that this government will finally form, has a head, still needs arms and legs and that we will, ladies and gentlemen, after, hope that we will start working for at least two months in this country. Those who claim that it is not true that everything is going slowly, let me say that they had a lot in the neighbouring country - but not a lot to talk about, I prefer Slovenia - elections, and one week later everyone is working and everything is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u114	Thanks again for saying that. Now, the work that is ahead of us today is certainly much easier than it would have been, since the basic decree already exists. One of the colleagues who spoke a little earlier may have overlooked a fact, since the new Member, in the past few years, has substantially changed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and today the working bodies are in a different role than they were before; in particular, some decisions can be taken by already working bodies themselves, and there is an unlimited debate at them, while at the very meeting of the National Assembly the debate is then significantly more limited. Thus, the decree is the basis for the formation of these bodies and all our amendments, among which I specifically underline the one concerning youth and the one that touches on more detailed, more focused weights that independent bodies have in controlling what is happening in the economy. It is the key working bodies that have been toothless tigers in recent years, mainly because of the personnel that were at their head. When this changed, the second part of the Slovenian transition medal was suddenly discovered. I only hope that there will not be any red saw that would give these new dogs guards of the Slovenian economy a brushing of their teeth and once again get some kind of paper tiger that would be intended for themselves to wave with him outside of the country, while the effect of that would be more or less nothing, as with some other very angry committee. Well, in any case, I intend to personally support this decree, and I will also support all well- tabled amendments, as well as colleagues from SDS, because our aim is to form these working bodies as soon as possible, so that we can then carry out all those procedures regarding the appointment of ministries, which are required by the Slovenian Constitution and laws and our Rules of Procedure. Indeed, for the first time, we expect concrete, but above all, measurable data on what this coalition, which came about a few weeks ago, and what the new government should have done. For until now, even if we read that text of the coalition treaty that has been published today, the work is very vague. Today, too, the mandate-holder spoke in principle. Of all those who will be on these committees, this, I think, comes without a doubt from the very nature of this decree, but we expect concrete and, above all, measurable data, so that it will be clear how the planned objectives will then be achieved. And we will expect the same when appointing a government from a mandate-holder to present such measurable data to us, in percentages, in concrete numbers, with concrete dates, also in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor. [[He's cancelling the debate.]] The word is from Dr. Matthew Lachovnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Gregor Golobič has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that it is important that we also pay great attention to young people and young people. Finally, we always say that young people are in the world and that this is a good prospect for the future if we invest in young people and work for young people. I attended the Youth Forum, organised by the Office for Youth and the Institute of Movements, on my own days ago. In fact, there was also a proposal to give more attention in some way to this area in the National Assembly. That is why we have tabled an amendment in our parliamentary group, proposing that the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport extend to the field of youth, so that we can determine more directly that this is also the work of this Committee. And of course, I will support this amendment because I think it's the right solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The list of reported discussers is thus exhausted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. Two amendments are added to the first section, complementing the title of the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport with "youth". They are essentially the same, so I propose that we discuss them together and also vote together. The candidates are the Parliamentary Group of Zares and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? Mr. Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say that I am very pleased that we are extending the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport, and that we are thus somehow giving added value to young people who, in their views, can also be somehow represented within this Committee. We ourselves know that this is a large generation group between the ages of 15 and 30, that is, young people facing major challenges today. I'm talking about students, students, unemployed, unemployed young people, young families, young people with disabilities and so on. It is therefore going on that young people have been facing for quite some time, and it is high time to pay a little attention to this in this mandate as well. You probably know that the Youth Council of Slovenia, together with youth organisations and political teenagers, has adopted a unified view that we would like to have a special working body within the National Assembly, i.e. a committee on youth issues, where we can address key points that we may have forgotten a little in the past. Only that, for more than 10 years, Slovenia has adopted a law on youth work and youth policy, which could somehow be the basis for the creation of a national programme for working with young people. There are several things and some additions to certain laws, such as the Youth Worlds Act, which needs to be supplemented. This is why it is imperative to pay one more attention to the generation of young people at this time. You know that young people today face not only housing problems, not only the problems of first employment, but also the problem of family life and of course the involvement of young people in decision-making processes. If anyone does, the current policy can enable young people to be more involved in deciding on young people together with young people and to somehow involve them in the process itself. So, I strongly support the extension of this committee. I am very pleased that we have come to this step and that this is a start for continuing to reach a special committee on youth issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Another warning. Since it has been possible to submit the amendments to the end or until the beginning of the general debate, I remind you that when we follow the content, we will look at the review of the amendments that the service has distributed to all Members and Members. I understood that Mr Dejan Levanič was the only one to be reported to the debate and the debate on the amendment to the first section of point 14 tabled by the Zares Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party concluded. We're moving to a vote. Excuse me. Two more comments or three comments before we vote. Both the Zares amendments and the Slovenian Democratic Parties are substantively the same, so we will vote on them at the same time. And second. If the amendment under number 1 which is substantively linked to the amendment to section 2 under number 6, it would not have been accepted, then this amendment under 6 would have been irrelevant. And similarly, the amendment under number 2 is related to section 2 of amendment number 5, if not adopted under 2 would also be irrelevant under section 5. However, we are voting on the amendment under number one and two in common. We're moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to the first section to point 14 has been adopted. We're moving to the amendments to section number two. If you agree, I propose that we lead the debate on all amendments to section 2 together and vote on each amendment separately later. Does anyone object? No, no, no. We agree. So, I'm opening the debate on amendments under number two, which we have in our review. Proposals for these amendments are for all amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, number 5 as well as for the party Zares - Sorry, 6. Who wants a word? Mr. Anton Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! Nicely greeted! Allow me to briefly state the position of the Group on the amendments tabled in section 2. The SD Group will support all the amendments tabled here before us. We believe that the proposed decision is being adequately supplemented, except for one which we believe is not necessary and which may cause difficulties in the functioning of the National Assembly or the competent committees. This is an amendment under point 1 concerning the Committee on the Economy. As has been said, the Committee on the Economy has already addressed these topics, which are listed here, but we believe that the parent labour bodies are in these areas, which are defined here, and in particular those relating to privatisation and sale of state property, two, namely, the Commission for Public Finance Control, which, by the way, is headed by an opposition representative, as well as the Committee on Finance. Let me point out that the Public Finance Act in particular discusses this subject and this is an eminent topic relating to the Committee on Public Finance and the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. And in this case, there may be unnecessary conflicts as to which working body is competent. However, as far as the other two indents are concerned, there has already been a proposal for discussion and consideration on this Committee. And let me add this: otherwise, this committee may at any time consider these topics, as well as others, as an interested working body. So once again: we will support all the amendments tabled, except for that under point 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I don't see any more of those reported to the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendments tabled to section two. First of all, we will vote on the first amendment relating to the third point of the decree, which is proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment relating to section two, paragraph 7, of the drafter Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour of Members and Members, 75 votes in favour, none in favour. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment relating to point 10 in section two. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted in favour of 72 Members and Members, against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on amendment number four, which refers to section two, section 12, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. I note that 75 Members and Members voted in favour of 72 Members and Members against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to the fifth amendment, which is point 14 to section two, and then point 14 is completely amended as set out in the accompanying text. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment referred to in point 6 shall be immaterial. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members voted in favour of 70 Members and Members against one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment under point five has been adopted. This amends the whole 14th point and the amendment under point 6 immaterial. We are moving first to the debate on one amendment to the third section. The amendment was tabled by the Zares Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour, with 58 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment to Section 2 has been adopted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and I ask that we turn to the vote on the Decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly in full with the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 Members and Members of Parliament voted against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decree establishing and tasking the working bodies of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u122	This concludes point 2, with respect to colleagues and colleagues. We're moving on to POINT 3 - MANAGEMENT-VOOLED MATTERS. Under this item, the Assembly will consider: a proposal for the appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, a confirmation of the election of a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, who will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office, four proposals of the Council of Justice for election in a judicial capacity by means of motions of decisions, a motion by the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman for the appointment of two Deputy Ombudsmans by means of motions of decisions, a motion for decisions on the discharge of the President of the State Audit Commission, a proposal for decisions on the election of the President, a Vice-President and members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, and a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and vice-presidents of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the draft decision was considered and submitted to the Assembly by the College of the President of the National Assembly, which proposes that the assembly be appointed as the Secretary-General of the National Assembly by Ms Mojco Prelešnik. I give the floor to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Mr Bojan Kontic, Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr President, your decision to propose the replacement of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly is a right which we do not challenge in the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for the National Assembly is the College of the President of the National Assembly and this condition has also been formally prepared by vote in the College. The Social Democrats' Group will therefore support the proposal for a candidate to be Secretary-General of the National Assembly. At the same time, we want the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to be the Secretary-General of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims, SDS task force.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u125	Good-bye to all of you. Every moment, like the moment before us, is in fact an opportunity to draw under the present event and see how it goes. If we look back - we need to be very clear: last term was extremely demanding for Parliament, and not only Members and Members were involved. In all its activities, including that exceptional, difficult, difficult, additional work, as was the case with the European Union, the entire professional service led by the Secretary-General of the General Assembly also worked with Parliament. To all, at this moment, of course, with him at the head, I express my gratitude on behalf of the SDS and a great thanks for the good and proper cooperation and the work done. But when it comes to moving forward, it is actually very difficult to form an unequivocal position. On the one hand, we respect the will of the President of Parliament, the President of the National Assembly, who made his proposal. But on the other hand, we would like it to be more justified to be clear about the programme behind which the proposed person, who is in fact unknown. There has been no special work with Parliament so far, in this way we believe it has not been able to gain any special experience in Parliament. The management of this system, which is very large, even though it is hidden to the public, is a very difficult project and very difficult work. That is why we would like to know more, we would like the proposal to be more substantially justified, to be justified, to be presented with a vision - how we will work together. For if I have said that we respect the President of the National Assembly's will, of course, the question arises on what basis did he, in fact, decide on his own. What we have been able to understand from publicly available data is a lady who has been accompanied by various political functions, and we believe that through policy she also has ties to it. He said he could work with her. I don't know if this means that I can't cooperate with the Secretary-General so far - anyway, the decision is his and he takes full responsibility for it. What I would like to stress in particular is that the Secretary-General of the National Assembly is not only a person who, I don't know, is somehow the secretary or secretary of the President of the National Assembly, but must be the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General of the General Assembly as a whole. What sometimes separates us from other parliaments is that we draw too little together when it comes to our collective organisation when it comes to the National Assembly, its reputation, the reputation of the National Assembly as a whole. We would like everyone to contribute more to this, so that we can all make this contribution and, of course, we rightly expect the new Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would first take advantage of the opportunity I have in these microphones to thank the Secretary-General, Mag. To the potter, for the proper work done in the previous term and at the beginning of this mandate, when we had to do certain things concerning the commencement of the functioning of the National Assembly in the new term of office. I sincerely thank you, on behalf of all my colleagues, currents and those from the previous term, with whom we have particularly worked. I have already said at the College of the President of the National Assembly that, of course, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly or the Secretary-General is the closest co-worker, the closest co-worker of the President of the National Assembly. And my principle is that it is necessary to give the President a free hand here in order to choose the person with whom he can cooperate and for whom he also guarantees that he will do a quality and good job that is not easy and responsible. The result of its work is also, of course, a good or poor organization of the operation of all the services of the National Assembly, the functioning of the National Assembly and, as a result, the reputation of the National Assembly as an institution - in addition to Members and Members - of course, all the other apparatus also gives an image on the outside, not just on the inside. I want the candidate to do a successful job so that what I said will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u129	Thank you very much, President. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we discussed this thoroughly and at first I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Group, for the good cooperation and work done so far by Mr Mag. They're hunting the potter. We must say that, although we have been in opposition for the entire term, of course, because of this we have never and never had a different status or different treatment and all things have been done properly. We are convinced that the election of the new President of the National Assembly is as good and appropriate. We are a party that respects freedom and, above all, freedom of choice. We will also make it possible with the majority opinion of the College of the National Assembly to our President, as in the following points, also of course with the free choice of co-workers and co-workers in a number of other areas, as well as to vote on assistants of the Ombudsman today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Clearly, there is no more debate between Members and Members. The debate is closed, I conclude the debate. And I am moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Mojce Prelešnik as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 59 votes against, 5 votes against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I congratulate the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and wish her a successful job. I would also like to thank you for the successful work done so far to the Secretary-General of the Assembly, Mag. They're hunting the potter. I would like to make it clear that, as President-elect, I would also like to thank Mr Loncar for the proper work done and for his cooperation in this short time we have spent together in the National Assembly. We are moving on to the examination of the confirmation of the election of a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, who becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. The decision was submitted for consideration by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Since there are no reports of debate, we are moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision approving the election of a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The election of Member Aurelio Yuri, born 27, shall be confirmed. Seven. 1949, resident of St. Anton, Hrib 13, Koper from the list of candidates, United List of Social Democrats for Member of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, replacing Member Borut Pahor, whose term of office expired. The President of the National Assembly shall, pursuant to Article 24 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, inform the President of the European Parliament thereof. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the four proposals for electoral decisions. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the Assembly on the election to judicial office at the courts of the three District Judges and one District Judge at the District Court in Žalec, New Town, Ljubljana and Piran. Does Dr. Janez Kranjc want to speak with the President of the Judicial Council? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nataša Gluk Breznik to the District Court in the District Court in Žalec. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Peter Baza to the judge's seat at the District Court in Piran. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Tadeje Cloud at the district court in the District Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Urska Klakočar to the judge's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Ombudsman's proposal for the appointment of two Human Rights Ombudsman deputies with proposals for conclusions. The Ombudsman submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Tončko Dolčič and Mr Jernej Rovšek as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, to explain the candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u131	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament. As the Ombudsman, I have the task of presenting to you and explaining in more detail my proposal, which you have received in writing. This is my deputy, who has been my co-workers for a year and a half, whose abilities and human qualities I have come to know well during this period and have therefore decided to propose them as my deputy. I respectfully ask that you, with your votes, help to make our joint work in the field of human rights even more successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u133	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. A respected guardian. Today, we have before us the proposal of the Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, to confirm the appointment of two deputies of the Ombudsman, Mr Tonet Dolčič and Mr Jernej Rovšk, for a period of six years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it seems unacceptable that the Ombudsman has gravely violated the deadline for the appointment of deputies laid down in Article 15 of the Law on the Ombudsman, where it is stated that the Ombudsman must propose to the National Assembly of Candidates 6 months before the expiry of the term of office of the former Deputy. No one can or should be above the law and arrange it, interpret it, or in any other creative way interpret it as appropriate at some point, but at the very least it is acceptable for such a person to be in such a responsible position, who calls on himself for respect for laws and responsible conduct. Article 18 of the Law on the Guardian of Human Rights also contains an oath given before the National Assembly by both the Ombudsman and the two Deputys when they take office. In this context, the first part, which says: "I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law..." So a few years ago, the Ombudsman in the National Assembly swore and also vowed to act in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. This time she did not respect this because she did not submit appointments to the Deputy Guardian within the deadline, in a way that we can see that, in fact, during the previous assembly of Parliament, she may not have even wanted to propose them. The question therefore arises to us whether the Ombudsman may have waited for a new composition of Parliament and therefore violated the law. Years ago, when the Ombudsman was someone else, Mr Hanžek, we also asked the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group repeatedly, whose guardian is Hanžek, or those whose rights must be protected and entrusted with his function, or from political February, which dictates the pace, subject and importance of the content that is in the interest of that time certainly left political options. And today we can ask ourselves the same question. Let us just remember how the guardian was present at the press conference along with Mrs Majdo Shirca's Ambassador Zares, aforetime - of course, there is nothing wrong with this if you have similar criteria to the opposite political option. Our voice, honourable Members, honourable Members, the voice of the Slovenian Democratic Party will this time be a voice against the violation of the law by those who should respect it first and most consistently, or in this country, it can easily be felt that some are more valuable, that laws are written only for some and for others are only privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian, colleague and colleague! I will start by saying that, as I said last time on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we are about two years ago, when the previous Ombudsman was and he made two proposals for his deputy about two months before the Ombudsman's term of office expired. At that time, we also rejected both candidates, who were eventually rejected in the National Assembly by our reasoning that we expect the new guardian or guardian to propose their candidates; such two candidates as the guardian or the guardian would then not know who would be involved or cooperated with their deputies. That is why we refused to do so. Now that these two proposals are, despite the concerns raised by my colleague before me, I believe that they are candidates for whom the Ombudsman is convinced that she will work well as ever before and that they will also do well in the work which she has done, I believe, increasingly in more and more areas for which the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman is also in charge of regulating the things prescribed by law. So, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support Mr Dolčič and Mr Rovšek as the candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, and I apologize to him at the same time for having invited him to speak before Mr Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u137	Dear Mr. President, the House of Respect! When we hear about the Ombudsman, we immediately think that he is the guardian of human rights for all people. However, in the Slovenian National Party this does not convince us, especially when we know that prison guards have been alerting us to the unsustainable situation in Slovenian prisons for more than five years, and that they always run into deaf ears, including by the Ombudsman. Five years is a long time when you work with delinquents. The prison underground exploits every mistake made in these institutions. Inadmissible lowering of safety standards results in blackmail, violence, post-jail drugs and also escapes. Post-jail guards would deserve more attention from the guardian, because unilateral treatment, as we are monitoring the situation at the Age, is unacceptable. You privilege convicts and treat guards as bullies. Of course, it is an excess of the arrogance of the leading personnel in justice. I once accompanied the Ombudsman myself after the institution. And I have to say that he was only interested in the work of how the guards treat the convicts, whether there was a mistake and so on, about the part of the guards themselves, whether it was burdensome, bad for them, there was no question. We will therefore not support candidates in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected guardian with a coworker, a colleague and a colleague! When we talk about human rights, then in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we always think about it thoroughly, especially on such a day as today, when we listen to explanations that certainly do not have much in common with the actual situation. We are assessing the content more than the form, and our assessment is that the Ombudsman is doing well with his fellow workers, that work in this area is expanding and that is why she thinks that she needs additional colleagues to be excellent. None of the fellow workers have been paid by their professional salary or human record, so we will be happy to support them. But I would like to say a few more thoughts on the subject of human rights and a few thoughts from our House of Representatives. We are all aware of the fact that human rights and freedoms are fundamental to every democracy, and it must also be considered that the country itself can be a factor in the abuse of citizens. The Institute of the Ombudsman, established precisely for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to public authorities, local authorities and public authorities, has made great progress in protecting human rights. With the annual monitoring of his work today, we can say that there has been an improvement in some important areas and some warnings remain ignored. However, if we assess the overall situation in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that the exemplary level of human rights consolidation and respect in recent years, especially in recent years, has declined in some cases. The cases of forced displacement of the Roma family and deleted re-examine prove that human rights and freedoms are never afforded once for the joyful, but must be re-established, verified and protected every day. In those cases, it turned out that it was the State and its institutions that were not able to provide the affected with the protection of the rights that we had previously enshrined in the rules and laws. Today is certainly another opportunity to stress once again that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will be constantly sensitive to any attempt to violate human rights, because this is an area where no society can and must not be satisfied with the level to which it has reached. Speaking of deputy guardians, we're focusing on the entire institute in LDS. We consider their work to be good, so they will also receive all our support. Our appeal for the support of the two deputies is aimed at ensuring that, in the coming term, Mr Dolčič and Mr Rovšek can, in their work, provide fair and just solutions to the problems and, through their independent action, enable the effective identification and resolution of irregularities. Maybe that'll be the end of it. If we provide better conditions for work, we will undoubtedly facilitate the fulfilment of the mission of the Ombudsman Institute, and we will also propose a reflection on the establishment of regional offices, such as in administrative units or even better in the seats of future provinces. This would bring the work of this important institution of democratic society closer to the people, especially those who need it every day. However, we fully support the proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Mrs. Zdenka Chebašek-Travnik, the Ombudsman! On the day of the constitution of the National Assembly, a proposal came for the appointment of two Deputy Ombudsmans, one for the continuation of his post, the other for the Ombudsman, and in July 2006 he did not receive support in the National Assembly and is now appearing as a new proposal by the Ombudsman to perform this function. The procedure for the election and powers of the Deputy Ombudsman shall be laid down in a special law. It also provides that the Deputy is required to replace him when the Ombudsman is detained, absent or unable to perform his duties. The mandates are therefore equally long and the method of election and oath is carried out in the same procedure. Why am I talking about this? Because they have to be deputies. The law says there are at least two or four of them. Because the deputies need to be able to resolve all the issues that come to the Ombudsman. However, the work can be organised in such a way that the deputies are qualified for specific issues and when we have before us a proposal for two deputies to be decided today, it is particularly important to point out that one person is qualified to monitor the rights or violations of rights relating to social rights and health rights, and especially the rights of the child in recent times. Others who have also prepared the basis or basis for the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman are specifically qualified to monitor the protection of personal data and access to information of a public nature and human rights law. We therefore find in the Group of Social Democrats that the two proposed candidates have the appropriate professional references to carry out a difficult and responsible task. In support of her proposal, the Ombudsman also stated that they had appropriate, appropriate and expected human qualities. The Member and Members cannot judge this. We believe, however, that the Ombudsman has had ample opportunity to judge both types of qualified candidates. We, too, fully trust her judgment and thus achieve that her expert team, her team of associates, will be properly filled and occupied. For when she became the guardian of human rights, she had only one deputy. Such a situation, which is illegal to be clear, was caused by the current coalition, which did not elect two proposed deputies; they were proposed within the appropriate time frame, except that some did not see their professional references. So today, when we discuss respect for or non-compliance with the legal provisions, the matter was clarified on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and we would expect that we would not talk about an eclectic violation of the legal provisions, but that we would know about the hands of the law in question and that the Ombudsman, I stress, submitted her proposal on the day of the constitution of the new National Assembly. We expect that such a strengthened team, as it is said, will work well and that we will not be able to accompany as soon as possible the world's human rights day, which we will mark in a good month, by reviewing, discussing, discussing and adopting conclusions on the annual report of the Ombudsman, which speaks of the fact that the number of cases with which it meets is growing and therefore strengthening the team is the only logical one. We will therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Since there are no more reports of debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to decision-making. I am voting on the motion for a decision appointing Mr Tončko Dolčič as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. The function shall begin on 30. 1. 2009 Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Mrs Majda Shirca, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have already voted in the National Assembly, at least one candidate, and I am pleased to support him - Mr Jernej Rovšk, with whom we have discussed human rights several times in both the professional and these premises. Today it is impossible to raise the questions of whose guardian is the guardian, which we have also heard, but to support what we have in the Slovenian space. Both Mr Dolčič, who is particularly sensitive to questions about children's rights, and Mr Rovšek, have always answered these questions, not only in professional circles, but also in the wider European and global public, with all possible professional references. And if it happened two years ago that one of them got too little support here, and that's why a lot of people in European circles were blushing because the proposal was rejected here and rewarded there, then I hope that this will not happen again today. Those who have read the Ombudsman's report know that sensitivity to these issues and violations is increasing and that the Ombudsman must have support in those people he chooses and who are also considered to be the most professional. We in the Group of Members will indeed support the proposal. We will continue to hang out when we talk about the issue of human rights both with the Ombudsman and with, I hope, from now on her deputies. This is because, as I say, it is not possible to deny or hide the questions that are being raised both in the field of foster care, and we have also discussed this with the Ombudsman publicly, not in the press, but in meetings, or on all other issues, young people's issues, where we have also met. As with Mr Rokovska, especially when it comes to protecting information of a public nature and media freedom, which we know is that Europe sends us daily more sad and unfortunate messages than with regard to other issues. In short, the support of the two Deputys is clear and clear, because with today's election, the time has completely changed and I hope this vote will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u144	I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u145	Thank you very much. It has already been said in the position of the Group that we will not support the Ombudsman's staff proposal. The deadline for proposing one of the candidates was six months before the expiry of the mandate, which is to say that the proposal should be submitted to the National Assembly no later than 29 July this year. There was no such proposal in the National Assembly. And the proposal came after the deadline. Despite our warning, the Ombudsman explicitly insisted that this proposal and the vote continue. We believe, however, that the Law on the Ombudsman, which imposes in article 15, when it must propose a deputy, is in breach. And he was violated by the guardian of human rights, and was violated by the Law of the Keeper of Human Rights. So the farce is perfect. On the other hand, when we are talking so much about the neutrality of the institutions, I would like to remind you that the Ombudsman took part in a press conference at the pre-election time for Ambassador Majo Širc to present the law they have tabled in the legislative procedure. I do not think that the Ombudsman's strong approach to the individual parliamentary group is in place. If the Ombudsman is a neutral institution, then he can and should be confined to such proposals by the parliamentary groups and not appear in public to present the law together with Members of a particular parliamentary group. Clearly, the need for the Ombudsman's office was not long overdue. For in this mandate, this coalition, or the previous government coalition, has confirmed the human resources proposal which has been tabled and we have confirmed Mrs Cornelia Mrzel as Deputy Ombudsman, and if we have tried and proposed other human rights proposals abroad, we could do all of this within a period of time. Finally, the meeting of the National Assembly was still in September and this meeting could also decide on the proposals that the Ombudsman would forward to the National Assembly. For procedural reasons, because there has been a violation of the law on the Ombudsman, we will not support the proposal in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I don't see any more on behalf of the delegation? [[...]] Mr. Yuri. Then we will open the application on behalf of the Members. [[...]] Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u147	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. If anyone wants to be very precise, then there is no procedural reservation to vote on the proposal for the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman, Jernej Rovšek. If we are so precise and want to defend our right at all costs. But the problem is that Jernej Rovšek is qualified with all the professional references to serve as Deputy Ombudsman and it is right to support him. I myself have had the opportunity in the past mandate to monitor more closely the work of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman and their co-workers, and I will today with strong conviction support from both deputies, because I believe that they have demonstrated in their work so much expertise and so much human commitment to solve the problems they have faced that it is a mistake to dissuade consent to the candidacy. But what can be particularly emphasized. This year, 60 years have passed since the adoption of the Declaration on Human Rights and in Slovenia, events have already taken place in this context. It is right that we are very sensitive when it comes to human rights and that we are also aware that a good guardian of human rights must be as an independent thorn institution in the fifth all-inclusive authority, because he must be a defender of people who are beaten, whether they like it or not. Therefore, there cannot be a harmonious relationship between the authority and the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the Ombudsman's proposal, just as I supported the relevant proposals of the then Ombudsman a few years ago. I know both the candidates proposed for the deputy well, but I know them mainly from their professional work, not personally. And after their professional work, I am sure that they will work in a proper and professional manner and will also be very helpful to the Ombudsman in this regard. The Ombudsman has actually received the greatest compliment today - the power so far is somehow out of her hands, from which it can be concluded that the authorities so far have ever resented, and this is only an expression of the fact that she has done her work so well so far. As for the obvious that it was politically inappropriate for the Ombudsman to have participated in a human rights debate, only this opinion would have been allowed. Remember, human rights are universal, not politically colored, not red or black, not white or blue, but universal. Therefore, if the Ombudsman participates anywhere in any debate where he can help raise human rights standards, it is only in his best interests. As for the allegations of a violation of the law, I asked myself, and I learned that the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly felt that the law was respected, so as not to hang it in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Yes, the law rules certain hands, but we know that interpretations differ slightly. The law also states that we are Members and Members responsible for the best possible way that the Ombudsman can do his job. And according to the expert evaluation of the two candidates, it seems to me that it is our responsibility to support them, because this will enable the Ombudsman to do the best possible work. The situation in this area, as you know, is not good, we see in the annual report that we have many problems and that the number of cases per year is increasing. I hope that those colleagues and colleagues who decide why they have all the legitimate right to vote against doing so on the basis of an actual professional opinion and not perhaps some offense, because the Ombudsman has allowed herself to speak to someone who has been invited to this conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u152	Thank you very much. So we are actually going to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 22 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Jernej Rovšek as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 51 votes against 18 Members and Members. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The assembly appointed Mr Tonček Dolčič and Mr Jernej Rovšek as the Deputy Ombudsman, so I ask that you take an oath before the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to invite Mr Tonk Dolčič to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u153	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance. Thank you for your confidence. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u154	I also ask Mr. Jernej Rovsk to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u155	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u156	I sincerely congratulate Mr Tončko Dolčič and Mr Jernej Rovšek on their appointment and wish them to perform their responsible function successfully. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the State Audit Commission The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, namely, Mr Samo Červek, to discharge the duties of the President of the State Audit Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Sam Červek from the duties of the President of the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We now proceed to the hearing of the Notice from the District Court in Celje concerning a private action brought against a Member of the National Assembly For consideration of the meeting, the District Court in Celje forwarded the notice. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the Notice of the District Court in Celje. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By 74/2008 of 9 October 2008 concerning a private action brought against the Member of the National Assembly, Mr Mate Lahovnik, for a crime of regret under Article 169, paragraph 2, and Article 169, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly to Mr Mate Lahovnik and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary groups. With regard to this proposal, the previous item on the agenda adopted an amendment to the name of the working body in the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, which is therefore also taken into account in the 17th consecutive number of the proposal. At the same time, the Zares Group - The new policy has proposed that Mr Franc Yuri be appointed Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth instead of Mr France Kek. Please take this into account when making further decisions. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Kontic on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Not at all. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everyone. First of all, in the introduction, I would like to say that this procedure for the appointment of presidents and vice-presidents of working bodies takes place for a very long time and has also begun very late. After fourteen days of the constitution of the National Assembly, there has been no proposal for parliamentary groups to hold a debate, not what bodies we will have in the National Assembly and not how this process will be carried out, nor was there any proposal for any division. In fact, the procedure took place as slowly as with the mandate-holder, and it is certainly necessary to speed up the process here in particular due to the seriousness of the situation. For the Government has introduced certain laws into the National Assembly that may be considered and adopted earlier. The very process of forming working bodies has been carried out, I can say, painful for the opposition or for the biggest opposition party nothing kind. For the proposals that came to the table from 29 October were not balanced and did not take into account the pre-election results, which the Rules of Procedure explicitly imposes, and to what it also directs. The relationship between coalitions, opposition and the relationship between individual parties in the National Assembly were not taken into account. It took quite a bit of time, and it took the coalition to establish the relationship between the opposition first. Although some things have been a little easier from here on out, there has still been a major problem which the working bodies, which, if I use the term of the President of the National Assembly, will be allocated to the opposition. I can also point out that, in the previous term, the largest opposition party had 23 members and led the work of three important working bodies. In this mandate, you proposed to the biggest opposition party, which has 28 members, first of all to propose the management of two important working bodies, and probably if the Group of Members did not threaten not to appoint the largest opposition party to the labour force or the members or the presidents you have dedicated to them, it would probably not have allocated an additional working body to the most important working body. I can say that this approach, this attitude towards the opposition in this mandate and also to the biggest opposition party in this mandate, is quite different, and we seem to have missed that step in the development of democracy and in understanding democracy. However, at the end of this proposal, I would like to point out that the numerical representation of Members of the largest opposition party in the working bodies is not proportionate to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Our proposal to balance this matter has been voted on by you in the college. However, I would like to point out that the next time this area opens, that is to say, when the Commission is set up, this topic will be reopened. For it is not normal for some parliamentary groups to belong to more than 4 working bodies per Member, but only three and one decimal. In short, we want the presence of our Members in working bodies to be balanced in this area as well. We have the opportunity to debate as full-fledged members and finally to vote as members of working bodies. The proposal in this part, which was, is not balanced. I would like to point out that, until the next procedure, when we establish the Constitutional Commission, the coalition will also consider how this problem of the deficits of representation of Members of the largest opposition party in the labour force would be adequately addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The story certainly has a happy ending in due time. I reiterate that there are no significant differences with the previous mandate when I assess that there have been even more of these complications than there have been at this time. I think that the goal has been achieved, the goal that we have pursued, that the actual number of leading positions in individual working bodies as well as membership should be closer to the electoral result. There's no way to even it. Someone said yesterday at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly that people can't be divided into decimals, and that's just not possible. The Social Democrats' Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which is the largest coalition parliamentary group and the largest opposition group, have approximately an equal number of jobs in the working bodies. However, the fact that one of the Members and Members has four seats or four working bodies, i.e. a greater obligation and burden than the other Members, is, of course, the logical and consequent result of the elections, because some parties have fewer members and if they want to participate in all the working bodies to which they have the right under the Rules of Procedure, means that their percentage is also slightly higher and that there are also a greater number of seats that Members and Members must actually occupy. The Group of Social Democrats agreed to all compromises in order for the National Assembly to start dealing with substantive issues. In fact, it also agreed to all the requirements. In fact, we gave in to where we reached consensus. So our interest was to establish working bodies, appoint members and members, appoint leaders and presidents and vice-presidents, with the aim of starting to do our work of quality. And if this was the price that we had to pay, we paid this price, this part took over and thus allowed the National Assembly to actually "function" for the purpose for which people elected us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-07-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Since the order of the panellists has been concluded, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Members shall vote on the appointment of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly by voting on the list of candidates as a whole. If the candidate list is not voted on, the appointment procedure shall be repeated in accordance with Article 200 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of new proposals from the groups. I would also like to point out that we are also voting on the two corrections that I mentioned at the outset, i.e. to add the word "youth" on behalf of the Committee, and to replace the name with the Zares Group. Well, we're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm very pleased about that. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary groups. In the absence of the panellists, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 10 of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, a decision will be taken if it is voted on by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 Members and Members of Parliament voted against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President and the members of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Law. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary groups. In the absence of the panellists, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President and members of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 69 Members and Members voted against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. I interrupt the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 11 November 2008, at 1 p.m. And may I have your attention, a moment more. 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th agenda items will be discussed before the meeting, namely, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on Monday, 10th November, 12th in the Grand Chamber in Tomšičeva, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice on Tuesday, 11th November, at 9th in the Grand Salon and the Commission on Mandate and Election on Tuesday, 11th November 2008, at 9th in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. At the same time, I inform the members of the Committee on European Union Affairs that 15 minutes after the end of the meeting, that is, at 17.45, the 1st meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs began at the large lounge on Šubičeva Street. Thank you so much and good night.
