ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! Colleagues and colleagues! I begin with the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Dr Marko Pavliha from 12 noon onwards, Mrs Breda Pečan, Mr Milan Petek and Mr Sam Bevk. We are moving on to the 30th A-point of the agenda - this is a proposal to table the referendum on the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. The proposal for a referendum was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Zmaž Jelinčič Plemeniti. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Bogdan Barovic, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives, colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, representatives of the Government! The Slovenian National Party is convinced that, during the Presidency of Slovenia, it is appropriate for the European Union to say Slovenians and Slovenians at the referendum and I will stress that they are in favour of the State Assembly ratifying the Treaty of Lisbon. In the Slovenian National Party we asked a completely simple and normal question whether you are Slovenian and Slovenian for the National Assembly to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon. And if they say that Slovenia will say to the European Union as President, look, we are showing as a small country by miles and by number of inhabitants, but a large country, the whole of Europe, that we are in favour. But I don't think it would be a good question. This was expressed in writing, written by the President of the National Assembly and the Legislative and Legal Service. We had to change the question you had before you. Also with this question, suddenly the legal and regulatory service is not satisfied and defines the left and right and up and down. The Slovenian national party only wants one. I would like to remind you of the period of adoption of the Constitutional Treaty. The Slovenian national party was the only one who said then, ladies and gentlemen, don't rush, please, let's wait. Let's see what happens. We have warned you that the Constitutional Treaty will not be adopted because countless referendums have been announced. You didn't believe us because you told us what they were doing was populism. But that's exactly what happened. The Constitutional Treaty was not adopted. Even then, the Slovenian National Party said, Slovenians and Slovenians have the most democratic opportunity to say that and to demonstrate their will to adopt the rules of the game. But you won't listen to us. What should I say, together with the President of the Committee on European Affairs, we have been fighting for a long time to open the Committee on European Affairs to the public and exceptionally closed. Because the National Assembly and the Committee on European Affairs are the only link between people in the Republic of Slovenia and Europe. Nobody wants to listen to us. You don't want that. Then we listen to people's awareness and awareness. People don't know anything - not about the Constitutional Treaty, not about the Treaty of Lisbon, called the Reform Treaty. People don't know anything. And today we're talking about the right to say. So, remember back, I need to remind you why this connection is. How Slovenia had to enter the waiting line for 5 years, because Europe said "Peacefully. Either you solve the issue of optants with the Italians or you wait." And we waited. Now, don't judge us. Because of me, she could be a candidate for Moldova. I don't care. It's just Croatia. So far, there's a contract from Nice. Colleagues and colleagues. From now on, Lisbon, which allows enlargement, but this expansion takes the power of Slovenia. He's taking it. Both in the Council of Europe and in the European Parliament. Either way, you do or you don't. And why don't people say proudly, "Yes, we are for the National Assembly to ratify." or, "No, we're not." I'm sorry, I thought I had more time. Colleagues and colleagues. Let us understand. We don't want anything bad. We want people to decide what rules of the game they're going to live by and nothing else. And, uh, back us up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for a referendum was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovšk, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Secretary of State. Good-bye to all of you. At its 79th urgent meeting, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered, pursuant to Article 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, tabled by the Slovenian Parliamentary Group. Mr Jelinčič explained that the complexity of the issue was due to the finding of the Legal and Legal Service that the original issue was not adequately formulated. As the main reason for the request for a referendum, Mr Jelinčič said that the number of Members of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament would decrease in the event of the enlargement of the European Union, and consequently its voting rights in the Council of the European Union should be reduced. He stressed that the Republic of Slovenia should not consent to such reductions, so it would be reasonable to allow citizens and citizens of Slovenia to decide at the referendum or such a document as to enable - this is the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community - to support or not. The members of the committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on that proposal for a referendum was presented by State Secretary Matjaž Šinkovec. He said that the debate on reform of the European Union also took place in the Republic of Slovenia for several years and the Slovenian representatives joined it even before the Republic of Slovenia joined the European Union at all. All the essential innovations now included in the Treaty of Lisbon were already known when the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia voted in favour of joining the European Union in 2003. He explained the process of adopting a constitutional agreement for Europe and its destiny, pointing out that the Treaty of Constitution for Europe had already been ratified by the National Assembly on 1 February 2005. He stated that the Treaty of Lisbon retains all the essential features of the content of only these, added new content practically does not exist. As the main difference between the Constitutional Treaty and the Treaty of Lisbon, he highlighted the fact that the Constitutional Treaty would repeal the existing treaties because it meant that they would re-transfer to the Union part of their sovereign rights. The Treaty of Lisbon only introduces changes in the structure of institutions, their functioning, all the essential content of the reform of the Union. At the referendum in March 2003, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia voted in favour of the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. However, as regards the concrete content of the proposals put forward for the referendum, it has established the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon sets out the institutional framework of the European Union, which will also work effectively in the Union with more than 27 Member States, and that decisions on specific individual enlargements will be taken in the future with the consent of all Member States. He concluded that, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there is no need for a referendum on this particular case. The majority of Members disagreed with the initiative to call for a referendum. They considered that it was not an appropriate basis and that their views differed according to the reasons. Some SDS Members agreed that the Treaty of Lisbon was not a problematic document, as it would not be a transfer of sovereign rights, but only a different way of transferring them. They expressed their conviction that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia had already made their declaration regarding the EU at the 2003 referendum. They agreed that high standards were in place in the Republic of Slovenia when it came to determining the entry into NATO and the EU and when the Constitutional Treaty was ratified, and that even when the Treaty of Lisbon was ratified, they would not be lower, as 2/3 of the majority of all Members were required to ratify the said ratification. Ambassador Majda Shirca agreed that the referendum was not necessary, but she felt that there was not enough debate on the Treaty of Lisbon to make citizens more informed. Let me say that the Committee on Foreign Policy considers that the proposal for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty establishing the European Community, is not appropriate and does not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u5	On behalf of the Government, Mr Janez Lenarčič, State Secretary for European Affairs, will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As has already been said, the debate on the reform of the European Union has been going on for many years. It started already with the adoption of the Lakota Declaration of December 2001, continued at the time of the Convention on the Future of the European Union in 2002, 2003 and was then renewed after the ratification of the former Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe failed. But this Treaty on a Constitution for Europe was the result of this broad public debate, which took place mainly in and outside the Convention. It is also important to recall that Slovenia has cooperated equally at the Convention, although it was not yet a member of the EU. The Constitutional Treaty, the result of this broad, long-standing public debate, was ratified in February 2005 by 79 votes in favour and 4 against. The Treaty on the Constitution for the European Union was a classic international treaty, but it would bring an important novelty to the European Union, repealing all the existing treaties and replacing them. This is also the main difference between the former Treaty on the Constitution for the EU and the Treaty of Lisbon, which is ahead of this meeting today. The last of the EU's previous core treaties does not repeal them, but amends them or complements them. This is similar to changing and supplementing existing laws. In particular, the Lisbon Treaty changes the structure of institutions, their functioning, their decision-making methods and increases the role of national parliaments and the European Parliament. However, all changes are moving towards increasing the effectiveness of the EU and enhancing the democratic nature of its operation. It seems particularly important to me to emphasise that the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon will not result in any transfer of additional new powers from the Republic of Slovenia to the EU. By joining the EU, Slovenia has transferred the work of its sovereign rights to EU level. Compared to that transfer, no further transfer shall be decided this time, no transfer of new additional powers to the Union. We are also not discussing further enlargements in the debate on the Treaty of Lisbon. While the Treaty of Lisbon allows for further enlargement, this is nothing new. This also makes it possible to date the contracts in force. I would mention Article 49 of the EU Treaty. In short, the debate on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is something completely different than the debate on future EU enlargements, which will certainly occur once the issue of the new members is up to date, but not yet. Let me mention that all the essential solutions contained in the Treaty of Lisbon are taken from the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, both institutional changes, the introduction of the President of the European Council, the introduction of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the extension of decision-making by qualified majority to a number of new areas, the increase in the role of the European Parliament and, in particular, the additional competences of the national parliaments they receive in the decision-making processes of the institutions of the European Union. I repeat, however, that all these solutions were formulated at the Convention and contained in the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, which has already been ratified by this National Assembly. On the basis of all the above, the Government considers that there is no need for a proposal for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u8	Dear Mr. President! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The democratic party of Slovenian pensioners does not support the proposal for a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon. We do not think that this is necessary because the Republic of Slovenia has ratified the European Constitutional Treaty, and the differences between that document and the Treaty of Lisbon are small in that Slovenia does not bring new sovereign rights to the European Union and these are minor corrections or additions that do not alter the fundamental content that has been supported by our country, the public and citizens once. It is also true that the European Union, together with an agreement on the transfer of known sovereign rights to the joint bodies, is a matter that Slovenia has accepted together with all citizens and probably would not have made any other decisions if the referendum had been called for. With regard to the establishment of our positions, when it comes to the functioning of European bodies or institutions of the European Union, we also support the openness of our Committee on European Affairs, which normally sits in closed meetings, this would enable citizens to know what is going on and, therefore, this lack of information on what we have advocated and supported when it comes to amending the European Constitutional Treaty into the Treaty of Lisbon, is better, but we do not have this agreement yet. But we hope to reach this agreement sooner or later. Indeed, this moment the Slovenian public may be slightly less informed about these few changes or differences recorded in the Treaty of Lisbon, but these differences are not of a fateful nature and do not seek such elements as to raise questions about general support and also the ratification of the law on this Treaty. For the sake of this, our parliamentary group cannot support the referendum, because we are confident that the outcome would be positive and the cost would not be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you so much for having a good day together. In the Slovenian National Party, we have decided to go to the proposal for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon because we believe that the Slovenian public, citizens and citizens will once again be drawn to their noses as they have done many times. The fact is, the Treaty of Lisbon does not bring any good to the Republic of Slovenia. And despite the fact that the Secretary of State, Mr Šinkovec, said that there is no difference between the Treaty of Lisbon and the Treaty of Nice, that is certainly not true. After all, the Treaty of Lisbon allows for an unlimited expansion of Europe until I know what limits. What the Treaty of Nice has limited to the current number of members. Of course, I hope that television now has sound, not as it did with Mr Barovic, when the transmission was only a picture and there was no sound. I hope they've arranged this, unless they've turned the sound off for me now, which I wouldn't be surprised about. It is also interesting that I do not know why people are not allowed to decide whether they want ratification or not. There will certainly be a referendum in Ireland, very likely in Great Britain. There is talk of referendums in France and Italy. About 600 articles of the contract on cca 360 pages is a huge reading that the Slovenian public does not know. Even Slovenian legal experts don't know him, and we don't really know him - at least we don't know him well enough. They brought in a huge document in front of us, demanding that we simply confirm it. I don't think that makes sense. After all, we are taking some power with this Slovenia. The voting power of Slovenia in the Council of Europe will be relatively reduced and the number of Slovenian Members in the European Parliament will be relatively smaller, as 8 to 700 is a significant difference from 8 to 1000 or 1200. You can figure out what percentage this is and what the difference in power is then. The exceptions that this Treaty of Lisbon brings are just as strange. That certain states that stand up and demand something better for themselves to please them just to be at peace in the house is not fair. Excluding all other legal matters and democratic bonds. The fact that Great Britain has its own requirements, which the European Union has agreed to, that it has its own requirements in Poland and that the European Union has also agreed to do so is not fair. While Slovenia is being squeezed at all ends and places. If we look at it, we're even making Slovenians one big mistake. After all, we are President-in-Office of the European Union and we support neighbouring Croatia when it joins the European Union, while the European Union itself says that Croatia will not enter until it has abolished its fishing and protection zones. I don't know what duplicity it is that's in the back. Do certain people at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, especially Mr Minister, understand things and know what this is about? I think it's the biggest mistake here, because otherwise, with a different minister, we could have a different deal. Slovenia could get what it should get, not always pay for everything. After all, while we are already paying, it is necessary to be aware that with the enlargement of the European Union we will get more and more poor countries into Europe and more and more underdeveloped countries will have to receive subsidies. Slovenia, which is among the more developed, will, of course, pay. Once we have paid for 2 million undeveloped people in the former Yugoslavia, now we will pay for 30 million undeveloped Romanians and Bulgarians and 40 million underdeveloped Poles and Baltics, and in short for 100 million additional undeveloped people, I don't know who, maybe Ukrainians, because it appears that Europe will spread to Ukraine and the Transsmithy and Moldova, and I don't know where else. I don't know where our country's gonna be so much money, we're gonna be able to go through all this. But I think it takes a referendum for people to decide, and that people say, if they want to put money there, they should give it if they don't. The only option and only right they have is the decision they must have in their own hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! It's interesting how things change. It is logical that things change in nature in the context of seasons. It is less logical, however, how things change within the framework of the National Assembly or, more recently, Slovenian politics. What credibility within and outside the country is worth. I have before me a copy of the votes of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, with a final document. The document referred to by the applicant in his opening statement and referred to by the representative of the Government. Let me tell you that on that day, 1.2.2005, only four Members voted against ratification. These were: me, Sašo Pece, colleague of Boštjan Zagorac, colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš and only colleague Bogdan Barovic. So much for someone who draws on a credible policy, a policy given words, not for people who have not even tried to be present on such an important matter that they say today is up to all citizens and citizens. The government representative said about the Treaty today and here that it strengthens the role of national parliaments. If that's true, then it's not bad. But the fact is, there is only one good thing in front of us today. This is an opportunity to get out of the European Union and this is also what the Treaty of Lisbon is talking about. However, I would like to highlight the content of the proposed referendum question. If we want to, you don't want to reflect a certain kind of incompetence, unfortunately, within the framework of the proposal. But why are we in a group called Lipa to support the matter? Not because of the difficult referendum issue, but also because of the fact that it would be impossible for all eternity to join different countries within the EU, we will support it for a key and only reason. This is to enable our citizens and citizens to have further knowledge and behaviour about the EU's functioning, but not about the functioning of the EU, as do gentlemen who like to travel very much, despite the fact that, in their words against the EU, they are at various meetings in Brussels and Strasbourg, which I think is double-faced, but that they will also support all those citizens who are in the referendum and, lastly, those who have not given it to join the European Union, not only the obligations of the EU institutions. In order to finally start that debate, which is more than necessary in this country and is always avoided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, why we have the same prices as in the rest of the EU, and not the wages or pensions. Because it was always a taboo of themes that were so avoided in this National Assembly, as within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This will be why, in the context of a delegation group called Lipa, we support, although a very non-professionally prepared act. But to create a space of communication where people will also directly learn about their rights, not just and only about duties, to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia constantly warns us from day to day. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives us the obligations that come from the institutions of the European Union and the European Union, but never from the rights. Those rights that are and our citizens are not familiar with them. And if anyone hopes to say that things will be different through the Treaty of Lisbon or by rejection, he's fucking wrong. Slovenia today presides over the European Union and what we have citizens and citizens of this, practically and today, except for road congestion, which I listened to on the radio yesterday when there are columns of gentlemen in diplomatic vehicles, and there is almost no one else. Even as the first member of the European Union in these six months, Slovenia did not hope to establish a level playing field with activities and actions coming from neighbouring countries that are contrary to the rules of the European Union. Members of the European Union have called on the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia still have nothing. The fundamental error in the state of the spirit, especially for the status of Slovenian citizens and citizens, is mainly in our own ignorance and non-creditability. But we've already witnessed something to her today. But we will support the debate and the people's knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We will not support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon in the Slovenian Democratic Party. There is no need for a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon in our view. The Slovenian National Party's proposal is primarily to reject or even prevent the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which the Slovenian Democratic Party of Slovenia believes would be harmful. Slovenia shall preside over the European Union. We have the eyes of the world's public, so changing the political commitments and the current majority consensus of Slovenian politics would be the first place to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon, the National Assembly, Slovenia, in Europe and the world. The proposal for an invitation to tender and the referendum question stems from the urgency to prevent further enlargement of the European Union, since enlargement brings a reduction in the share of Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament and an additional transfer of the work of sovereign rights to an international organisation. We agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that such a claim represents the proposaler's legal interpretation, which does not fall within the referendum question, and the facts show that it does not. The Lisbon Treaty will increase the number of Slovenian Members in the European Parliament. The impact of Slovenia will be greater, and the Treaty of Lisbon does not transfer additional sovereign rights to an international organisation, but changes only the way in which the transferred sovereign rights are exercised. We reiterate that the principles of the European Union and Slovenia's interest in joining the European Union were confirmed at the referendum before entry in 2003. Also, the Constitutional Treaty has been ratified by a large majority in the National Assembly, which has not entered into force, and the Treaty of Lisbon preserves most of the essential solutions contained in the Constitutional Treaty. The debate on the Constitutional Treaty has been held for several years. It was also attended by Slovenian representatives. The enlargement of the European Union remains in the strategic interest of Slovenia and will be a long way to the first further enlargement and entry of the new Member. The European Union needs a new institutional framework for the successful functioning and coordination of the 27 Member States. Therefore, the Treaty of Lisbon does not present a problem for Slovenia, which would have any effect on the regulation of open issues with the neighbouring country. The problem for Slovenia and the service to other countries is presented by those political partners who have approved the publication of diplomatic mail, which constitutes a diversion and the issue of the country's interests. In the SDS we agree that it is right that Slovenia is among the first to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon, as the progress and monitoring of ratification is one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency. Therefore, as I have already said, we will not support the proposal to call for a referendum in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not support the proposal for a referendum. However, the candidates for the referendum, according to our belief in a number of things, are also right. They are right to point out that the decision-making process for such an important document as the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon in the National Assembly is not properly and well prepared. I don't know why, just because we were set up at the February meeting or at the January meeting in a decision-making position, we had to make a quick decision to put this on the agenda, to have one debate alone. I will not say unquality, but nevertheless one single debate in the native working body, to receive a warning from the Foreign Minister that, I will not say in any way, we will obtain the writing or related text of the old treaties that are changing and the new Lisbon Treaties, because reading the Treaty of Lisbon alone without having the basic texts that are changing really does not give a complete picture of what the content of the amendments is, that is, to the Members and Members, that is, the appropriate material, was not possible. This points to the laziness of this Government's attitude towards Members and Members. This points to the irresponsible attitude of the leadership of the National Assembly towards such an important decision-making point, and this is an assumption that it is wrong to count on the awareness and firm belief of all Members and Members or their great majority that we will also confirm the Treaty of Lisbon in such a procedure. Yes, we will do this, but I think it is wrong that we will do this way and it is therefore understandable that questions arise as to what content is and what content is not. Why not, though, and these warnings that are serious? I do not hope that the National Assembly and the Government will consider them because they are ignorant of us, but they are serious. And I'm sorry it has to be that way. However, despite this proposal for a referendum, we will not support and support the Treaty of Lisbon, because we believe that the decisions taken so far by Slovenia should continue. I am thinking first of the referendum on entry into the European Union, at which already in March 2003, with a large majority of citizens and citizens, we confirmed the decision that the Republic of Slovenia will become a member of the European Union. We were aware that we are accepting important rights, as well as obligations within the European Union, which is our place and our interest and say that citizens and citizens did not know this very well, is not true. They knew, and that was the majority decision. We consciously ratified a constitutional treaty in the National Assembly on 1 February 2005, which had much of the same content as the Treaty of Lisbon. It was clearer, which concerns me as a lawyer, because we had a constitutional treaty that regulated all the contents from the first to the last article. However, due to the decision of some countries, our ratification was not fully valid. However, I think that we must continue to think about the Treaty of Lisbon here and say that the Treaty of Lisbon does not have such significant substantive differences, and especially the substantive differences that would be detrimental to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, so that the Treaty of Lisbon cannot therefore be confirmed in the National Assembly under the same procedure as we did with the Constitutional Treaty. And in the end. In the opinion of our Legislative and Legal Services, the proposal for a referendum decision also has substantive shortcomings. I agree with these warnings and this is the last formal reason why we will not support the proposal for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u17	Hala. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! According to the LDS Club, a referendum is not necessarily needed. The proposal for a referendum itself was also given relatively late, possibly also during the EU Presidency. However, we certainly agree with the findings of many, and we have repeatedly warned ourselves that citizens and citizens have not been sufficiently informed about the very contents of the Treaty. Nor was it prepared, there was sufficient broad debate, and even the time when this debate was held was certainly not such as to have any effect on the Treaty itself. We expected that this debate could be constructive if it was held even before the Intergovernmental Conference, if, on the one hand, we could get to know each other more in time and also make certain comments and, on the other hand, the National Assembly, the National Assembly, I stress once again, could also affect the content of the treaty itself. For now the National Assembly has become more familiar with it, even superficially and quickly, and we are ahead of a decision whether to support it or not. In a way, then, putting it before the fact. It is also true that ratification of the Treaty is expected. It is expected in Slovenia, expects to be ratified by the EU by us and expects to be ratified by all other countries, all the other members of the European Union. And it is also true, on the one hand, that the referendum at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union has shown support, the favour of citizens and citizens of this institution, i.e. the integration into the European Union. The second fact is that the European Union is all too self-sufficient and the Treaty that we are discussing today will certainly contribute to the greater effectiveness of the European Union. The third fact is also that citizens and citizens, and last but not least the National Assembly on the content of the Treaty, are not sufficiently informed that it has taken place too quickly and that we are assessing in the LDS, that the European Union's leadership alone is not yet a reason for us to have to hurry. Not because we're not the first. If we were first, this would have a symbolic significance, and we would have set an example, because it is certainly in the interest of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union to ratify the Treaty as many countries as possible at that time. But now this symbolic level is gone. On the other hand, it is not expected that all countries will ratify the Treaty during the Presidency of Slovenia. This will not be a story that Slovenia would close in its presidency. As such, it has no significant impact on the efficiency, quality of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. And we don't see why we're in such a hurry, why we're in such a hurry. The ratification itself at this time certainly does not affect the efficiency and quality of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. We are convinced that certainly not so much, certainly less than I suspect that Slovenia is President of the European Union, that Slovenia is leading the European Union in accordance with the instructions of countries outside the European Union, specifically the United States of America, this is certainly a more negative light to the Presidency of the European Union, such as the rapid ratification or non-ratification of the Treaty. For all of this, we estimate that a referendum as such is not necessary, but ratification is necessary, with talks coming too quickly and too little to complete at the next point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u20	On the date of the signing of the so-called Treaty of Lisbon on 13 December last year, the New Slovenia Group proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ratify the Treaty as soon as possible at its extraordinary meeting. If possible, first. In this way, with regard to one of the most important priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we would do the most in our power to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon. The content of the referendum issue relating to the Protocol on the Enlargement of the European Union is not, according to our assessment, in line with the current policy of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure faster development of democracy and greater stability in the area of the former Yugoslavia in the neighbourhood where we live. The content of the referendum question is also not in line with the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union on the convergence of the Western Balkans with the European Union. It is clear that each enlargement reduces the relative power of each member, but it must be acknowledged that in this case the situation in Slovenia is getting relatively worse, less than most of the major Member States. So it remains in relatively one better position. Given the growing global competitiveness, without the participation of the wider space in which we live, we cannot imagine the successful development of Slovenia. Therefore, it seems important to us that the area for enlargement of the European Union is open, of course, under conditions that apply to all equally. No enlargement can take place without the consent of all Member States, so without Slovenia. In our assessment of the proposal for a referendum, it is rightly stated that part of sovereign rights will be transferred through the Treaty of Lisbon to the European Union, in particular in an operational sense. However, opinions are shared on the legal aspect of the transfer of sovereignty. We believe, however, that it cannot be argued that the voting rights of the Member States are fully eliminated when they are in the current three-pillar structure. The adoption of decisions in the current second pillar - "External and security policy" remains virtually unchanged, with agreement. It is true that decision-making in the current third pillar - Justice and Home Affairs" is changing in many areas, but we estimate that this is essential in terms of regulating migration and protecting against tourism activities. We are aware that the Treaty of Lisbon is a compromise with which many members are not fully satisfied. Some members have even chosen certain exceptions. In itself, this does not mean that ratifications will be carried out without difficulty. That is why it is right to do this as soon as possible as the Presidency and thus indirectly help those who may face problems. It should be noted, however, that on 4 December, before the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, there was a public presentation in this National Assembly of the content of the Treaty of Lisbon in terms of national parliaments, the Government, the European Commission and the European Parliament. No member of this National Assembly was present at the presentation, except for me. This also points to an actual interest in content alone and, from this point of view, we also consider that the interest in the referendum is of course not the right substantive intention, but is only part of the campaign before the elections. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this presentation did not actually involve or report on virtually no national media, nor did the media show any interest in the content of the contract itself. Prior to the last meeting of the European Council in Lisbon, the starting points for Slovenia's performance were confirmed at the plenary session of this National Assembly. So, Slovenia, here I have to point out a special government, the Slovenian government delegation has gone to the final negotiations on the content of this treaty with the mandate given to it by the National Assembly in plenary, which is a rare case in all EU Member States. Here are the reasons why the New Slovenia Group will oppose the proposal for a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The European Union has started to form at 2nd. World War II. There is no doubt today that the European Union has brought peace and cooperation between all the countries of the European countries and nations that are members of the EU, as well as all others who are seeking to join the European Union today. We all remember well the failure of the European Constitution when it seemed that the European Union's integration process was halting or stopping. According to the Slovenian People's Party, the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon and its implementation are an important milestone in the further development of the European Community of Nations. As Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will say below, the adoption or ratification of the Lisbon Treaty is certainly necessary and appropriate at the next item on the agenda. We are considering a proposal for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon submitted by a group of members of the Slovenian National Party. The initiative was launched in connection with the repeal of the Protocol on the Enlargement of the European Union. The proposers also base their initiative on the fact that Croatia's entry into the EU will relatively reduce voting rights in the EU Council and the number of MEPs from individual countries. This argument is actually ridiculous, as other EU countries could look at the issue of enlargement in a similar way when Slovenia entered the EU. In particular, we must stress that we support the further enlargement of the EU in the Slovenian People's Party. We believe that the solution to Croatia's entry into the EU is the one that probably encouraged the proposer to submit a proposal for a referendum. In this regard, we are very clear in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union is an extremely possible pressure that we are allowing in the event that it is otherwise impossible to protect Slovenian interests in other ways. This is certainly not a matter of ratification or non-ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. The Treaty of Lisbon does not take the right of national countries to further specific enlargements of the European Union. Further concrete enlargements will still have to be adopted with the consent of all Member States. We must also draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which notes that the proposed referendum issue is not appropriate, as it includes, inter alia, a proposal for a legal interpretation. We will not support the proposal for a referendum in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u24	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. From the referendum issue that we are talking about today, it is clear that the request for a referendum does not involve skepticism towards the Lisbon Treaty, but rather the desire, the intensification of Croatia's entry into the European Union and perhaps other countries all the way to the Caucasus, as we have heard today. This is why the issue specifically stresses the repeal of that part of the Treaty or the repeal of the Protocol on the Enlargement of the European Union. And the proposaler himself has justified this, not only today, but also on the working bodies, because enlargement understands as the slaughter of the existing members of the European Union, which, therefore, Mr Trinitarians, is intended to keep future underdeveloped adherents. Such starting points are blind, let's say that even selfish and do not show that the applicant would only know the philosophy and procedure of accession, negotiation and decision-making, or just the contract. The explanation is also to a certain extent amateur or amateur, the very question, since it builds on the domain to reduce rights after Slovenia enters the European Union. Here are these doubts, and today, in fact, the National Assembly should decide on the clarity of the question or the possibility of the question being reshape or the possibility that the question alone should be asked and formulated by the National Assembly. But the very question was answered by the legal service and the will to correct the questions or to correct them again, or to form the National Assembly itself, there was no question. We don't have it. We don't have it. In one thing, and certainly also in Zares, who opposes the referendum in the way it is proposed and with the tendency it has in the background, and in one thing we agree, the debate on the Lisbon Treaty in the Slovenian space, in our home space, was not enough. The content is largely unknown to people, but it is our common political space, which is not sufficiently reflected by all together, and the government does not stimulate it enough. The European Union remains far behind as if it were not the inhabitants and as if it were a matter of one third. Of course, it is clear that the Presidency will partly correct such a position, but, for example, when deciding on the ratification of the treaty, I am sure that this awareness of the operation itself is not sufficiently present. It is true that we will even be discussing here in the National Assembly for four hours today, but the broader thought is not sufficient, and we all agree. We haven't surpassed this philosophy of operation yet, maybe we will now, but we will. Also elsewhere, for example, the will to come into the very functioning of the European Union is not enough. I agree that it is absolutely wrong that the meetings of the National Assembly, the Committee on European Union Affairs, are closed. It is incomprehensible, for example, that the third programme, the so-called parliamentary programme, which is aimed only at the Slovenian parliamentary process, but not at the European one. In short, let us sometimes confuse ourselves with understanding the involvement in European space more than is present. In this context, it might be interesting to consider a referendum that would give rise to greater perception, but it is certainly not worth supporting at this point in time that the referendum issue, which stems from the selfish assumption that enlargement threatens its own country, or from the ignorance of the philosophy of the European Union's very functioning. In this sense, of course, we will not support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before we move to a decision, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We therefore decide on the following proposal for a decision: A referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is being opened which amends the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 25d of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 56. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the agenda, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the law. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! Today this National Assembly is considering and deciding on the content, which it has decided to a large extent on in a comparative manner already in February 2005. At that time, the National Assembly ratified the Treaty of Constitution for Europe in the same composition. Like Slovenia, there were 17 other Member States. The rest either did not ratify the contracts, or they did, in two cases at the referendums, they rejected the contract. As a result, the Treaty establishing a Constitution for a Europe in which the whole EU has invested a lot of energy for millions of hours of debate has not entered into force. There came a time of reflection, of thinking about how to proceed. The result of these thoughts, consultations, debates, which we have had in Slovenia, is the Treaty of Lisbon, which is before you today. This Treaty retains about 90% of the solutions included in the Constitutional Treaty, but some solutions that have been problematic for those Member States that have not ratified the treaties, or that have rejected it at the referendums, are missing. What is before us today is not a constitutional treaty on another form, it is the Treaty of Lisbon, which contains some 90% of the solutions under the Constitutional Treaty, but 10%, if we talk about percentages, shares or percentages, is missing. There is also no single document before you, but it is a classic EU treaty that is amending the Treaty so far. In terms of transparency, this is not good, from a pragmatic point of view, given that this was also one of the obstacles to the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty, this is an approach that has greatly contributed to today's decision-making at an intergovernmental conference on an approved text and signed contract. This Treaty is an integral result of the multi-annual efforts of many legal professionals and politicians from across the European Union. In some ways, there is a reflection of the balance between the ambitions of the European Union and the real situation in which the European Union came. The efforts made in Slovenia and the other 17 Member States to ratify the previous Treaty were also in vain. For the majority of the countries that ratified the previous treaty were largely due to the moral weight they had, because of the fact that we had ratified the treaty, we respected the signatures given, but those who did not do so did not respect it. This fact and the moral weight of the countries which ratified the Constitutional Treaty made it possible to retain in the new text the majority of the solutions agreed upon by Europe at the Convention. Let me briefly, because the procedure is not that important, but nevertheless, even in the light of the debate that was before, I recall some of the milestones that were reached when this agreement was reached, which today led to this event, so that we can talk about the signed Treaty of Lisbon. Following a number of discussions, coordination and compromises and a consensus reached last year around the so-called Berlin Declaration, which was signed at the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the European Treaty, it was possible to build a political consensus on the key solutions that remain in the new Treaty last year. Rather, agreement on what was disturbing for some Member States in the Constitutional Treaty and what could be left out of the new regime without the content being significantly affected and Europe could move forward after enlargement. During the German Presidency, the June European Council laid the political foundation for an intergovernmental conference held last October. On 12 October last year, I think the National Assembly discussed the positions of the Republic of Slovenia for an intergovernmental conference, and these positions adopted by the National Assembly, at an informal meeting in Lisbon, and then at an intergovernmental conference, we consistently advocated and implemented them. This contributed to the fact that we did not have any bad feelings after the intergovernmental conference was concluded and the mandate for signing the Treaty, which took place in Lisbon on 13 December 2007, was in some way self-evident. We therefore have the first two stages, the political agreement, the intergovernmental conference with formal approval of the contract at work and the signing of the contract itself. And we've got phase three ahead of us, that's ratification. And this one is the most sensitive. As demonstrated in 2005, it may even be a fateful phase. In fact, ratification in all 27 Member States is a condition for the implementation of this Treaty. In just one country, that doesn't happen, and we're before the embarrassment that we've had in 2005 times 2. Time is relatively short. We have elections to the European Parliament next June. Following these elections, the European Commission is formed in good practice. If we want to catch all these deadlines set forward, then at least a large part of the Treaty of Lisbon must enter into force on 1 January 2009, which means, of course, that all preparations for its entry into force must also be made in parallel with the ratification procedure of the Treaty. And that's a lot. This is one of the priorities of the Slovenian leadership of the European Union this mid-year. We want ratification to take place as quickly as possible, but we are aware that different countries have different procedures. Slovenia has a relatively simple ratification process in the constitutional or legal system of the State, and there are countries which have a very complicated process and where only taking this procedure into account takes time beyond half a year. Nevertheless, we expect such forecasts, even in the light of the procedures already under way, that over 20 countries will ratify the Treaty of Lisbon by the end of June, is said at the time of the Slovenian leadership of the European Union and all others by the end of the year at the latest. However, since there is a specificity in each country and since certain internal political matters, deadlines, elections to be held in some Member States this year, are also bound by the logic of these procedures, it is possible to expect any delays or complications in the ratification itself. Nevertheless, there are, I could say, optimistic expectations that this time, in the correctional exam, an attempt will be successful for the European Union to receive a ratified Treaty of Lisbon on 1 January 2009, which will allow it to face the challenges of the 21st century on the basis of this new foundation. In this ratification process, each State shall decide on its own, and the sum shall be that which shall ultimately indicate whether these positive decisions have been sufficient or not. Like I said, if one is missing, that's not enough. From this point of view, your or our national decision is also very important. It's extremely important. We are not just deciding about ourselves, we are also deciding on the 26 other members of the European Union. In some ways you represent 2 million people and people of the Republic of Slovenia, and indirectly these 2 million people decide on almost half a billion people in this particular case. It's the same in other countries. It's some kind of reciprocity, connection, and I think we need to be aware of that. This decision today is as important for Slovenia as it is for the whole of the European Union. Of course, our joint task today is a little easier, since we have practically ratified the same solutions that we have before us today. However, some things have been added to these solutions. About that a little bit later. This is not entirely the same or the same big package as it was in 2005. But the key things that we are deciding today, not only were on our tables in 2005, were also before us when we voted in favour of joining the European Union in the referendum. At that time, a convention was held, and the solutions were known to be proposed. The National Assembly in its previous composition has taken these decisions, which are widely discussed. We knew what kind of European Union we were entering, and we knew what changes would be necessary after we entered. Slovenia is one of those countries where people have decided directly on the key solutions ahead of us in the referendum. And that's an indisputable fact that everyone sees from the outside. One of the dilemmas and thus the difference between the Treaty of Lisbon and the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe is the question of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. The Charter of Fundamental Rights is not an integral part of this Treaty this time, it is an independent document, but the Treaty of Fundamental Rights is being invoked and it also provides that the Charter will become legally binding by the application of the Treaty. In legal terms, the Charter will have the same meaning as it would have been directly included in the Treaty for those Member States that have not exempted themselves. There has been a change of name with the Foreign Minister provided for by the Constitutional Treaty. It is now a High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and its functions have not been substantially changed. The European Union will, in fact, receive an external minister after the entry into force of this Treaty and thus a significantly greater guarantee for a more unified foreign policy. The provisions on the primacy of European legislative acts have been replaced by a statement which essentially sums up what has already been applied in practice. The double majority vote has been postponed to 2014. It's a compromise that doesn't really make much difference. Of the things added that were not on our tables in 2005 and in the debate at the time of the Convention, particular mention must be made of the new challenge that emerged at that time. These are climate change. The Treaty of Lisbon now mentions this directly. The energy and climate challenges are specifically mentioned in the Treaty of Lisbon, and this document also reflects the fact that Europe is aware of this challenge and is ready to face it. Last week, with the start of the consideration of the energy and climate package, we have also taken the first step towards realizing this awareness. There have been some debates on whether this Treaty must be ratified by Slovenia or whether someone has set a dilemma as to whether we have to or want to. I don't think there's anyone who wouldn't just be Slovenia, but any other Member State would have forced it to ratify this treaty. Not only the previous Constitutional Treaty, but it has happened before that some country has not ratified and things have stalled, they have delayed and new solutions have been sought. No one is forcing anyone, and without us this treaty will not enter into force. So I think the real question is whether we want to. Are we aware that the European Union, which we are part of, needs these instruments, which are brought about by the new Treaty? In the debates we have had so far, this consciousness has been very present. I think we can talk about today that Slovenia wants the vast majority of Slovenia to focus on this point of conscious desire to get these instruments from the EU. If we now make very specific reference to these upgrades, which this Treaty brings up compared to what is now considered a legal basis for EU action, 9 sets or 9 points, which, although known, are still worth repeating. First time. The Union is granted legal personality status by the Treaty of Lisbon. This removes the three-pillar structure and also the duality between the Union and the Community, which means that we will also act on the outside in a much more uniform and more effective manner. One of the direct consequences is that the European Union as a Union accedes to the Convention on Human Rights. Under the Treaty of Lisbon, relations between the EU and the Member States will be much clearer. It is precisely defined when the Union has exclusive, when shared and when complementary powers. The third novelty is to strengthen the democratic element within the EU. The codecision procedure is being expanded. The role of the European Parliament will be greater. A so-called citizens' initiative is being launched. This means the possibility of direct impact of citizens and citizens on the decision-making process. The role of national parliaments is also increasing fourthly. The national parliaments of the Member States will be significantly more actively involved in the European decision-making process in the early stages of the procedure when legislative acts are only being drafted and national parliaments have significantly more potential to influence their content. National parliaments will also be involved in monitoring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. This is one of the main principles of European law. At an early stage, national parliaments will be able to block a legislative process or request the Commission to re-examine the draft and provide an additional explanation. The European Council is changing. Now it is an institution which is the EU's highest political body. The President of the European Council is always the Prime Minister or the Presidency. Under the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Council will be chaired by a President with a term of two and a half years. This will ensure the implementation of the priorities and the achievement of the priorities of the European Union, as well as the coherent political action between the Union and the Member States. Since 2014, the composition of the European Commission has been amended. This will work with a smaller number of Commissioners. The European Commission's action is ineffective or less efficient due to size, two thirds of the Member States will be represented by the new Member States since 2014, but the Commissioners will be elected on the basis of the principle of full or full-fledged rotation between Member States without being left behind by smaller Member States. The 7th news is that decision-making at European level, which is very complicated today, is becoming easier. The new Treaty introduces in most decision-making areas in the world a qualified majority, determined by the dual majority system and still contains a very large number of fuses. The eighth news is already mentioned by the European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. At the same time, it will preside over the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and will also be Vice-President of the European Commission. In this way, this duality, which we now have in the European Commission, the Commissioner or Commissioner for Foreign Policy, will be eliminated, but we also have a High Representative for Foreign Policy in the world, and many times things at the formal level are not harmonised. The Charter of Fundamental Rights, which I have already mentioned, was signed on 12 December. It has become part of the European Union's primary law and will thus give citizens of the European Union an understandable catalogue of fundamental rights. This is the nine sets of news or changes that the Treaty of Lisbon brings to the existing legal order. And the fact is that Slovenia, together with the other members of the European Union, which we entered at this great enlargement in 2004 and after 2004, was a fundamental reason for us to need this treaty. If the European Union did not expand, most of these changes would not be necessary. We must therefore also be aware of this part of our responsibility. When it comes to the issue of enlargement, the matter is quite clear. Without a new European treaty, there is no enlargement. Thus, this debate on this ratification is, of course, appropriate in this decision. And I think it is absolutely clear that Slovenia already advocates, for moral reasons, the same rights that we, too, have. It would be unfair if, after we entered the European Union alone, we said, "From now on, we are closing the door to all other European countries that want to do the same." It is, of course, necessary to defend the same criteria for all, but it is necessary to be principled. It would be very unusual if we went to such a non-solid position, especially because today, in 2008, four years after this big enlargement, macroeconomic figures show that this enlargement has brought benefits not only to the new Member States but also to previous or old Member States. As a result of this enlargement, Europe has progressed faster, but not only have new Member States made progress because of the possibility of drawing funds from European funds, but they have also progressed. The number of employees has increased by a large number of millions, economic growth has increased, the internal market has increased and has also increased. Thus, there is now a need to add a new institutional framework, or rules, to this very solid foundation, which will allow this large family of 27 members or members to function normally. And then this family is ready for the next steps in the expansion itself. And it is no coincidence that the issue of enlargement is one of the priority issues also during the Slovenian leadership of the European Union. When we entered the European Union, there was a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of idealism, enthusiasm and expectations, including the globalisation of the European Union, in these debates that took place in Slovenia at that time. However, there was some concern which was expressed in these discussions. And this thought went to the European Union's effectiveness. There was a general awareness in Slovenia of the citizens and citizens we went to the referendum at the time, that the European Union was an area of progress, prosperity, high levels of protection of human rights, political freedoms, but that it was a complicated mechanism, that it was a mechanism where much time was needed, that some thing moved, that would come through this bureaucracy and that decisions were taken. And that's how the European Union actually looked back then, and it's also to a large extent today, or even a little more complicated after enlargement. If, at the time when we voted in the referendum on the accession to the European Union, we expected a change or we wanted it, then this was a change in the direction of simplification and greater efficiency. I have been in many debates and of all the concerns or from these debates I recall only this concern, when the European Union is too complicated a mechanism, decisions are slow. This goes objectively for the benefit of those who are stronger, greater, who also have their own people in Brussels bureaucracy, etc. It is therefore in our primary interest that these procedures are shorter, more efficient and more transparent. And on this very dilemma and on this concern that has existed in Slovenia since the very beginning, the Treaty of Lisbon offers a good answer, but it could be better, but this treaty is a compromise. And that's a good answer. For the next foreseeable period, the European Union, through the Treaty of Lisbon, is receiving an instrument that will not only be able to regulate relations more effectively between Member States, to build common policies, to increase integration, but which will enable the European Union to make it more effective and externally, so that a single creation with some clearly identifiable European identity becomes increasingly a global factor in line with the economic and other strengths of the European Union. For so far this famous reflection has not been in line with the actual power of the European Union, and now, at the beginning of the 21st century, the time is coming for this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister Janša. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and by the Committee on European Union Affairs. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Joseph Jerovšk, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u28	Dear Mr President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, members of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! At its 33rd meeting, held on 24 January, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and had no comments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the opinion of the Council of State supporting the draft law. In the introduction, the president of the Committee said that the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon meant the completion of the activities introduced by the Committee in the examination of the starting points and positions for the participation of Slovenian representatives at the intergovernmental conference. Ratification of the Treaty brings institutional renewal and is crucial for its further development. Below, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, presented the progress of the negotiations on the text of the Treaty of Lisbon, the main substantive characteristics and differences that separate it from the non-implemented Treaty of Constitution for Europe. He said that differences were mainly of a formal nature and that they were a new treaty, which was very similar to the Constitutional Treaty. The Treaty of Lisbon conventionally complements existing core Union treaties and does not terminate them. In view of the current regime, changes in decision-making, the greater role of national parliaments and the European Parliament, the new common policy, including in the area of justice and home affairs, the environment, international crisis management and energy, are being brought about. The Union’s competence extends, inter alia, to the areas of health, employment, sustainable development and environmental protection. By abolishing the European Community, the Union will have a uniform legal personality, a three-pillar structure being removed, while preserving the specific nature of the common foreign and security policy. Although the number of European Members will decrease from 785 to 750, plus representatives [[?]] , Slovenia is given an additional seat, i.e. by the new 8 Members. Since the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union will become legally binding by the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, we will also get citizens a comprehensible catalogue of fundamental rights. Furthermore, the Treaty of Lisbon also allows the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Treaty of Lisbon will allow for further enlargement of the European Union, expressly stipulating that accession countries must respect the values of the European Union and the criteria for accession agreed upon by the European Council. An important novelty of the contract is also the right to exit. With regard to the symbols of the European Union, which are not specifically mentioned in the Treaty, Member States have reached a compromise by making a statement on the symbols of 16 countries, including Slovenia. Finally, Minister Rupel stressed that, with the signing of the Treaty in Lisbon on 13 December 2007, the governments of the Member States of the European Union had committed themselves to working towards successful ratifications in order to bring the Treaty into force on 1.1.2009 and that such elections would take place in the European Parliament in June 2009 on the basis of a new treaty. In the longer debate that followed, the members of the Committee raised several questions and highlighted the need to better inform citizens with the news that the Treaty of Lisbon brings. Dr Rupel, Minister of Foreign Affairs, answered the questions raised. After the discussion, the Committee adopted all the articles of the bill with 14 votes in favour and one against. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in the proposed text and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Anton Kokal, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u30	Dear Mr. President of Parliament! Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, Ministers and Ministers. At its 116th regular meeting, on 18.1.2008, the Committee on European Union Affairs considered, under agenda item 4, the Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. Mr Janez Lenarčič, State Secretary for European Affairs, presented the main novelties of the Treaty to the Committee and highlighted in particular the elimination of the duality between the European Union and the European Community, the new composition of the European Parliament, the decision by a double majority in the European Council, which becomes an institution of the European Union, the reduction of the composition of the European Commission and the merger of the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Commissioner for External Relations in the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. The Secretary of State also stressed the greater role the Treaty attaches to national parliaments, mentioning the Protocol on the role of national parliaments in the European Union and the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. I asked the Secretary of State about the monitoring of the ratification procedure across the Member States. According to the State Secretary, the Government Office for European Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is the government body responsible for this. However, Slovenia will encourage the remaining Member States to ratify as quickly as possible by setting their own example and leading discussions that will not make this process more difficult. Following the discussion, the European Union Affairs Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union, at its 116th regular meeting on 18 January 2008, considered the Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community and has no comments on the proposed law. The National Assembly is invited to adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you. Following the presentation of the views of the delegations, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u32	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Mr President! Yesterday, we heard from the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the Treaty of Lisbon is not for enlargement by the Secretary-General. Today we hear from the Prime Minister that the Treaty of Lisbon allows for enlargement. I really don't know why you're being such a scoundrel. We were Eurosceptics in the Slovenian National Party. When 90% of people decided to join the European Union, we respected the rules of the game and became Eurorealists. When the euro was introduced, we said in the Slovenian National Party, if we are all for this, yes. Even for my own sake, I taught twice in Slovakia all the good things about the introduction of the euro. With great pleasure. And I'm proud to respect the rules of the game. At the previous point, we wanted Slovenians and Slovenians to say the last "yes" at the referendum. And Slovenia, as chairman, would say, if, look, a model for everyone, including Great Britain, including Ireland, regardless of their law, we are the president for. Okay, you don't want people to decide for themselves. True, the Treaty of Lisbon is a consequence of a constitutional treaty, and I will not repeat once again in which we warned you not to rush, let us wait. The Constitutional Treaty has fallen. The Treaty of Lisbon, which is before us today, has emerged from this Reform Treaty. It's true that he has good and bad sides. But it is also true that Slovenians and Slovenians do not know enough about the good and bad. It is true that the transfer of sovereignty to the EU through the Treaty of Lisbon is the same as with other treaties. We are transferring legislative rights to the first, second and third pillars, transferring sovereignty to the internal market, the common foreign and security policy and justice and internal affairs. But it's also true that we have three systems. The legislation in force in the Republic of Slovenia is still in force. We still have the principle of subsidiarity because they say it is better to respect the rules of the game of Europe if we do not find one, we will respect our rules of the game. And it is true that we have a third principle that I just said where absolute rights are transferred to Europe. I don't think people know that. Once again, from yesterday and today, it is not true that the Slovenian National Party wants to prevent the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon. Dear colleague, Mr Jerovšek! That's not true! We want Slovenia to say 'yes' in the most democratic way, the proud country that will choose people. That's our wish. Don't discredit us. Believe me, in seven years of working on European matters, I know what we want together. All I want is for all of us, for myself and for all of you, and for all of the Slovenes and the Slovenes. But there are dangers for Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, and why hide them. Let's just say who they are. The Treaty of Lisbon creates, I'm going to say, "a la carte" on purpose. "A la carte" means, the United Kingdom has fought "opt-out". I'm not going to explain what this is. Read for yourself the findings. Poland assured itself it was not. What did Slovenia guarantee? None of that. Second threat. The principle of subsidiarity and the so-called orange chart. It really sounds very nice if a decision by the Council of Europe is not taken to judge the European Parliament. But between 700 and several other Members, guarantee me that this orange card will be accepted if one thing is real, real and will be written for us or anyone. We also have a yellow card. I don't want to teach, but look, people in Slovenia only know that we live in Slovenia. They don't know, I stress again, they don't know that we live in Europe, because it's our big country. And when we, colleagues and colleagues meet on the Committee on European Affairs on Fridays at two, I stress that we are closed to the public. Why should the public not hear and know what the Government has to say about certain issues in Europe? Why can't the public know what our views are, whether we acknowledge, give consent or oppose the opinion of the Government in Europe? Why are we hiding this? With all due respect to my President, I respect him very much because he is concerned and conscious. We filed an application, we tabled a proposal, no one wants to accept it. Why hide from people, Slovenes and Slovenians, what is happening in Europe? I don't know, I have no bad conscience, I believe we all think well and we all want well, but that's the first indicator. Subsidiarity, proportionality. Four cases in the subsidiarity court, over 100 for proportionality. And I'm not going to explain what that means, because no one knows between us, some people don't know or know, and people at least. Let's give the Slovenes and the Slovenes a chance to say yes one last time. When they first said they were entering Europe, they only said that they lived in a common country, while respecting three types of laws: national, subsidiary and European. And how powerful and noble the Slovenians would be if they said, "We are the ones who said at the referendum that we want the Lisbon Treaty." The Lisbon Treaty is the rules of the game. Take whatever you want. The Constitutional Treaty was not adopted because it would have constitutional principles, and now we think it is not a constitution. It's the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. The rules of the game are laid down. And the Treaty of Lisbon is the one that allows for enlargement. And there's something else about expansion. I really don't understand, indeed, respected gentlemen of the government. I don't understand. When the Minister for Enlargement says, "The sea in Europe is the European sea." When he says, "Europe requires the country" in this case Croatia "to withdraw the implementation of the ecological fishing zone." A clear message was given. A perfectly clear message, ladies and gentlemen! But we, who preside over Europe, even the President of the country, support the entry of the country - and I will not name this country - even though it violates the rules of Europe. Ollie Rehn says, "You're breaking Europe's rules." As President of Europe, we say, "We support you." Let's finally figure this out for once. That kind of duality can't go. Ladies and gentlemen! Please! This is not a bilateral, trilateral issue of Slovenia, Italy, Croatia. This is a question of the European Union: the Swedish, Danish, Cypriot sea is the European sea. And the Adriatic Sea will also be at the entrance of Croatia if it withdraws the ERC, the European Sea. And we will be the first in the Slovenian National Party if the neighbouring country does so for us to expand. Remember that Slovenia waited for 5 years because of the question of Italy and opportunists. Is it true or not? That's right. The Italians and Europe said, "Save the issue of optants, then you will enter." Since we didn't, we went to the waiting room for five years. Is Croatia, Moldova; I mean, what is different than Slovenia? It's not. Let's have our pride, our respectable colleagues. I am most proud that Slovenia is chairing the European Union because I accept the will of the people. But you, colleagues and colleagues, do not want to give the opportunity, once again, to express the will of the people to confirm what we are accomplishing. The government has done a great deal. With all due respect. It's huge. But we 90, sorry, we can't decide on a few issues on behalf of 2 million people. If not, these people would be obliged to accept information - what is happening in this country, what are the rules of the game by which we will behave - you, us and everyone else. It's the only message. The Slovenian national party will be the first to confirm enlargement if the neighbouring country respects the rules of the European Union's game and withdraws the ecological fishing zone. I expect, however, from this country, which holds the presidency of the European Union, that it will be the first to support the opinion of Mr Rehn and all the other Commissioners, the Council of Europe, the European Council and the European Parliament. However, to support a country in its opposition to Europe as the Presidency of the European State, of course, is a complete nonsense. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, as we did in 2005, also today, because of speed, due to the trouble of respecting the will of people, Slovenes and Slovenians, we will not support the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u34	Your Honors are here! This morning, when I was on my way to work, I was at three or four radio stations listening to the basic shock theme, whether people at the referendum will decide on the future of the European Union. It has always been emphasized that the candidates of the referendum within the framework of the Slovenian National Party will require this and this. When I came to the National Assembly with you present Members today, I also listened in the introduction to the speaker who used hard words, patriotic words. But watch out, I said twice, just words. I heard "proud," "people," "Slovenia," "creditability." And what happens then - when we vote, two-thirds of the candidates are not in the National Assembly to even confirm their decision, which they wanted to propose to us. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Party is proposing a referendum for us, but their presence in the decision is not in the National Assembly. And if I have started the previous point since 2005, on the act on the European Union, when their presence was null or, I apologize, only one Member of today's three has been present and has expressed his will, today is the same to us. But why am I saying this? I know, I've been there, I know the situation. But why am I saying this? In order to protect the status of Members. It is not enough for a Member, ladies and gentlemen, to just speak through press conferences, press releases, when a Member has one and the only weapons available, and here you will agree with me, it is the pressure on the "for" or "against" button, because it realizes its words and those people who send puffs to the Slovenian public [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u35	Mr. Pece, it's time for your presentation on the Lisbon Treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'm going to follow through on this. As part of his presentation or presentation of the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Government expressed, in my opinion, one very important substantive sentence: We must or we want to. According to my assessment, it is necessary or, rather, according to the opinion of the group of unrelated Members with the name Lipa, to complement this content with the question: Do we know what all of this brings us? The entry into the European Union in one form or another, by a treaty or another, is a message for the content that our country should contain within itself. So it is not our intention, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about operational tasks, how it will take place within the framework of individual institutions of the European Union. It is our firm belief that, according to the Member's group of unrelated Members, the self-appointed Lipa, it is primarily about picking up what is best from Europe. But what's going on today and here? It happens that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which also holds the Presidency of the European Union, is unable to carry out social dialogue. Is this elsewhere within the European Union? No, no, no. A few hours before the strike is carried out, a consensus is reached to raise a few euros and then we say, this is a European standard. In all the other members of the European Union, and I am telling a story that we regret or do not wish to learn, or we do not know, to bring the dimension offered by the European Union into the life of our country of the Republic of Slovenia. I guess we didn't enter the European Union so that some gentlemen would go to Brussels and Strasbourg or accept them within our country! I guess that wasn't the only purpose. The purpose or at least what we see in the context of the House of Non-Aligned Members of Lip is to bring all the good that is, to the life of our country, and all the bad that is, to distance ourselves from the life of the Slovenians and the Slovenians, whose representatives we are. But there will be real events that are totally contrary to the content of the life of the other members of the European Union. Before the day we had a study, I believe that you have received all Members and Members of Parliament, how the governments of the Member States of the European Union are building a common policy with the national economy. But Slovenia, as if living on some third part of the world, creates a Slovenian government war with healthy economic operators, because this has suddenly become a fashion trend, but it makes sense to create an electrical atmosphere between Slovenian economists who make, gentlemen and ladies, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, through which both social and culture are fed and the whole spectrum of our country. But no. However, we did not know how to collect these standards, or the Slovenian government does not want to be able to take them from the framework of the European Union. Furthermore, how many times have we defended national interest in Slovenia as a member of the European Union? Some speakers under this point and the previous points have failed to point out how many times and put Great Britain or Poland on negative pedestal because they were able to protect both to a certain extent their national interests. As President of the European Union, Slovenian Members of the European Parliament, from which I believe you will have to think now if you want to list all seven names, when have they protected our national interests? No, no, no. We import only negatively by European institutions, create internal tension in our country, and therefore we estimate that automation should come directly from the institutions of the European Union. We should basically look at ourselves. And if the Polish or the English were able to preserve the essence of their national interest, it is sad that we were unable to do so by the Slovenians. Whoever runs foreign policy, we know. We know who runs European politics in our country. But not only have we not been able to do this, but there is nothing to suggest that we have learned from this at least something from it, that we will take advantage of this association called the European Union in the coming days. No, no, no. We're going to go on and say, we're only going to get this, we're only going to accept what they're going to offer us, gentlemen and ladies. Of course, they're not going to offer us a big plus, because we have to fight it on our own. Slovenia is the President of the European Union. Members of the European Union reminded Croatia of their unilateral decision in connection with or with the eco-fishing zone. What did Slovenia, as the first European Union leader, do at this time? Nothing but an answer. Yes, but with this, the neighbouring country of the Republic of Croatia has moved away. And here I also have to say a clear line, because there is not enough between the MPs of Lip and the speaker before me and the only condition for the entry of other members, the exclusive eco-fishing zone. But to close all open issues, i.e. from the bank, especially the territory as a country of integrity. But allow me to define up to two, three things that the Prime Minister has said to me. We were told that this was the act that we are taking today. I must point out that Slovenia, even if it accepts it, will not be the first member of the European Union to have adopted it. Despite the fact that we are presidents, as I have listened to these days, and that this is one of the arguments why it is necessary to accept this. To increase the impact of citizens and citizens on European Union decisions. Sorry, that's not true. The influence of our Slovenians and Slovenians, and finally of us, on decisions, and in particular on the content of decisions, will not increase in any way. Once again, it will depend on pride, and above all on the credibility of our representatives within the institutions of the European Union. If this content continues, which I regret, I believe will continue, then Slovenia will not take this step forward. It was said that the national parliament would have the option of blocking. I believe that the President of the Government used these words literally in his opening statement. Please, we've already had it. We are now even the Presidents of the European Union, and no one has ever dared to think boldly about whether or not to defend the positions of our country of the Republic of Slovenia in the club of the so-called European lords. But this is not the mistake of these European gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake of Slovenian ruling policy because it cannot defend, preserve or build on Slovenian national interests. And when it comes to changing the pillars of the institution of the European Union, or better said, given that I have very little time left, to draw on European funds, how it makes sense already in this title, and how good and good it is to be within the Euro institutions. You know, the realisation of payments by the Republic of Slovenia in the EU is 100%. So we pay off everything gentlemen tell us without thinking about it or not asking for a postponement or anything like that. What is the realisation of the benefits? So what we've always been promised, and what some are struggling with at every turn. We have found that out of the three funds totalling 15%, 85% of the funds mentioned are left abroad. But no matter what the matter is, I just want to point out one last thing. Unfortunately, the creation of a closed circle of knowledge, activities carried out by Slovenian representatives in the institutions of the European Union, will not make progress, as there is no communication. And what matters most is whether or not it is intentional or merely because of superficiality and I do not know what is worse, we do not understand in Slovenia the rights of competence that we have towards the European Union or which we could draw from the European Union. Neither as the President of the European Union can we exercise the so-called national interests, but no matter what kind of act the European Union will be based on in the future. Let it be the Treaty of Lisbon or any other treaty. We do not know enough material in the Group of Unbound Members of Lip due in particular to the obligation to citizens and citizens you do not want, because the government circle holds it for itself and, above all, to the content and address of the rights we have, we will not support the said act. But we'll be there, unlike everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u38	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group today, the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon constitutes a kind of conclusion of the activities which the National Assembly has tabled in its consideration of the starting points and positions for the participation of Slovenian representatives in an intergovernmental conference, with our Group actively participating. Nearly four years of Slovenia's membership in the European Union are marked by the great success of Slovenia. Slovenia, as President of the European Union, coordinates the European policy and is an influential country of the international community. The benefits of membership in the European Union have touched practically every active citizen of Slovenia. Unless otherwise, the introduction of the euro and the abolition of internal borders with the so-called Schengen. We feel a united Europe and live it. Even before a good year and after the fall of the Constitutional Treaty, pessimism reigned in Europe. There was talk of a crisis in the European idea. No one dared to dream a dream similar to that of "United Europe from the Atlantic to the Ural" was once expressed by Charles de Gaulle. Ratification of the Lisbon Treaty constitutes a further step towards strengthening the enlarged Union and is crucial for its further development. Slovenia has both a political and practical interest in ratifying the Treaty early, since it is right, as President of the Council of the European Union, to set an example for the other Member States of the Union. As President, we have a duty to monitor the ratification process and to ensure that ratifications are successfully completed by the end of the French Presidency. As a result, the collapse of this process could mean that, without the Treaty of Lisbon, large countries would start to exercise their own interests independently, which would mean a two-speed Europe that is not in the interests of smaller countries in any way. Moreover, an enlarged Europe needs clearly-written objectives, values, principles and rules. The Treaty of Lisbon contains almost all the essential novelties of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, ratified by the National Assembly on 1 February 2005. It brings news that will enable the enlarged European Union to be more effective and democratic. The Treaty of Lisbon will bring greater integration of the European Union, better efficiency of its operation and bring the Union closer to its citizens. The Treaty complements, in a classical manner, the existing foundations of the Union Treaty and does not terminate them. In view of the current regime, changes in decision-making, the greater role of national parliaments and the European Parliament, the new common policy, including in the area of justice and home affairs, the environment, international crisis management of energy. The competence of the Union extends, inter alia, to the areas of health, employment, sustainable development and environmental protection. The Lisbon Treaty thus preserves the values and principles that show that the European continent wants to remain open to knowledge, culture and social progress. He wants to deepen democracy and continue to strive for peace, justice and solidarity in the world. It brings important gains and provides for simpler and more effective institutional arrangements for the Union. The text thus preserves the extremely important legally binding nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the uniform legal personality of the European Union and the abolition of the three-pillar structure and the preservation of institutional balance in a broader sense. The Treaty of Lisbon will allow for further enlargement of the European Union, expressly stipulating that accession countries must respect the values of the European Union and the criteria for accession agreed upon by the European Council. An important novelty of the contract is also the right to exit. These are all steps in the right direction. The Treaty of Lisbon also defines the citizens' initiative as a new, important institute. In our Group of Members, we welcome the citizens' initiative and will closely monitor its effects. Through the citizens' initiative, the citizen of the Union can be directly involved in the adoption of legislation. At least one million Union citizens from a large number of Member States will be able to request the European Commission to submit an appropriate proposal on matters which it considers necessary to adopt a Union legal act in order to implement the Treaties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that the citizens' initiative will help to reduce the often-reported democratic deficit of the Union and will be an element of the integration of European citizens. Finally, the Treaty of Lisbon also brings about changes in such a very important area as foreign policy. Specific rules and procedures will apply to the common foreign and security policy under the Treaty of Lisbon. The adoption of legislative acts will be excluded in this area. With the support of the European External Action Service, the Union in the external political field will be represented by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, which is an important step forward. We are convinced that the Treaty represents the continuation of the work of the founders of the European idea, while at the same time it also means a successful continuation of the close cooperation of countries in which the fundamental objective was to establish an instrument that would ensure peace for Europe and prevent the repetition of experience II. World War II. The adoption and approval of the Lisbon Treaty is proof for our Group that, despite the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty and the learning process, the EU is able to reach a consensus on the Union's fundamental objectives, not just in an optimistic period of reflection. Despite the European Union's exceptional success in ensuring peace and stability in Europe, based on respect for human rights, we cannot ignore the changes that have so strongly shaped the transition to the 21st century. We are aware that these require an update of the way in which cooperation between Member States is made more visible and effective in the European Union's global economic space. The implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon will certainly help to achieve the objectives set. The final text, despite some forced "opt out", is a good compromise that takes into account the interests of both large and small Member States and provides a good basis for the future functioning of the Union. However, the ratification of the Treaty will not end the work. But it's only going to start well. It is necessary to ensure that the contract is also accepted by citizens. It is therefore necessary to inform the public of its principles and content. Let me reiterate that in our view, the National Assembly is the right place to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon and that the Treaty of Lisbon is an important document for the Union, as it provides the basis for more effective monitoring of the EU's decision-making process, including a successful solution to the challenges of globalisation. It brings a way out of the crisis with regard to the continuation of the European future. Let me finish with the cry: "Let united Europe live! Let Slovenia flourish in it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! In February 2005, we ratified the Treaty of Constitution with Europe between the first and the truth in a loving and in-depth debate in the National Assembly. In the belief that this constitutional act of a united Europe represents a unique historical opportunity for us as well as for the other 26 Member States, which want to face the challenges and opportunities afforded and provided by a democratic, open and economically efficient Europe. It later appeared that, for some countries or their nationals, the Treaty of Constitution for Europe was in fact not acceptable or, by rejecting this constitution at the referendum, people wanted to give other internal political messages to their own governments or to their own political elites. Today we are once again among the first to ratify the new renewed Treaty on Europe, the so-called Treaty of Lisbon, which for some of the 27 countries represents a step forward and a qualitative upgrade to the previous Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, and for others an acceptable compromise that no longer takes on the subjectivity and sovereignty of the Member States as acceptable and necessary for the internal political integration and economic efficiency of the European Union. Slovenia holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union this first half of the year. Therefore, it is also somehow right that we ratify the Treaty of Lisbon among the first. Especially if we sincerely believe that this new compromise text of the Treaty is also acceptable, good and that it will satisfy our expectations of what Europe we want to live in, what common development priorities and what process we want to take together with other members of the European Union. It is also important for us to ask whether structural changes within the link will also enable effective and rational and democratic and equitable decision-making. These questions are also essential in order to find the answers to whether we are in the process of consolidating the legal building of the European Union. Does this document, or the way in which the European Union operates, bring the European Union closer to its citizens or residents in the European Union? Unfortunately, we must conclude that there was no in-depth and broader public debate in Slovenia on the new solutions brought by this reform treaty in relation to the Treaty with the Constitution. The National Assembly also recently received a translation of the contract from Slovenia. Not to mention that only text is quite broad, opaque and complex. It is therefore very difficult to get close to most of the people of the Member States of the European Union. More than once, it has been said that the European Community has already been a project of individual elites and not of wider layers in Western Europe. It is a pity that proposals were not heard that a shorter, more principled and transparent document should be agreed instead of the Treaty of the Constitution. Another missed opportunity, therefore, is to avoid legal and official Latvian language, which is actually a very burdensome text. It is only partly held that this Treaty removes one of the European Union's greatest shortcomings, namely the division into three pillars. It was said that the proposed document abolished the three-pillar structure. In fact, a special regime for the so far second pillar on the common foreign and security policy is being introduced and the second pillar de facto remains. When it comes to strengthening the role of national parliaments, the Treaty gives them the power to actually assess the functioning of the third pillar. At some points, the "opt-out" clause is introduced for individual members only, which in fact introduces the possibility of several legal orders. Before that, only reservations were possible. So why aren't individual institutes named by real names? Slovenia has not so far taken a more precise view of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, except that it has, in principle, supported it. We have not wondered and not today, obviously, how it relates to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, on which the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg operates and judges. It is very good that the Treaty stipulates that the European Union accedes to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is of great importance in harmonising standards for the protection of human rights throughout Europe and for the future case-law in this area. This also reduces the possibility of competition between the two instruments. Although this supplementary contract has obvious shortcomings regarding internal coherence, transparency and understanding, it is what the Member States have been able to agree on. Although it does not define symbols, although it no longer contains the Charter of Fundamental Rights, this complementary treaty still provides a satisfactory basis for strengthening the effectiveness of the European Union. For us, however, it is also an important additional guarantee for the consolidation and further development of our internal democratic regime and for the prevention of authoritarian attempts to abuse democratic institutions and the full exercise of human rights in our country. This is also why Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! At the LDS, we understand the Treaty of Lisbon as a wish, Europe's desire to become more effective, so as to increase the effectiveness of the European Union, to reduce the differences between individual members in the European Union and to reduce the gap between the institutions of the European Union and citizens. Therefore, this will contribute to making citizens and citizens of the European Union feel more European and that, on the other hand, the European Union will act more effectively and that all members will have more equal opportunities for their development, for their progress and that the differences between the individual members who now exist will not increase but decrease. The Treaty of Lisbon was created at the height of the Constitutional Treaty. The adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, on the one hand, would mean the end of Europe's self-employment, but in order to be able to focus on the future, on its faster development. This highlights the greater importance. More is given at the national level and at the strengthening of the European Parliament, the European Commission. And certain powers become the exclusive interference of the European Union. It's a cancellation, of course. This is a waiver of certain competences of each Member State. On the other hand, we must be aware that if the European Union wants to become a global actor, then, as an institution, it must also have certain powers, a certain weight and not least certain people who will represent it. In this context, of course, we also understand the new institution of the President of the European Council and the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Okay. Nice and good. So, Europe should start dealing with content and not form. That it will not be as it is now, at the time of the Presidency, the concern of the foreign ministry of form and content. So, how did the documents that show that we're getting instructions from the United States come to the public? Not that the foreign ministry is concerned about the credibility of the European Union's leadership, what the credibility of Slovenia will be as President if it is guided by certain instructions from a non-member country, contrary to what the European Union wants to achieve and overcome in the economic field. We must ask ourselves: What is good for the European Union as a whole? For if we want an individual member of the European Union, of course Slovenia, to be successful and to receive more from the European Union than it gives, then the European Union must be strong and successful as a whole. Regrettably, once again, individual national interests have often been overcome, stronger than the common interests of the European Union. There have been too many exceptions in writing, drafting the Treaty of Lisbon, which we have already heard a lot about and which is the worst for Slovenia - there are no exceptions. Other countries, including perhaps by blackmail, have achieved that exceptions are in place to enable them to be better placed in the European Union. Unfortunately, Slovenia does not have these exceptions. And this is not good for Slovenia and it is not good for the European Union, as it also contributes further to the establishment of a European Union of so-called two speeds. And every chain is as strong as its weakest member. The European Union is also as strong as its most successful and strong weak country. For this reason, we cannot agree that the importance of Europe is on average the importance and effectiveness of all countries. But it's not good for us to land on Europe at two speeds. For the weakest of Europe are much more hindered, than it seems at first. And because this is bad for Europe, it is bad for Slovenia. Even more so, because it will be so difficult to achieve that the differences between individual countries in the European Union will not increase further, but, on the contrary, they will decrease. With regard to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, we estimate that we are in a bit of an unnecessary hurry. The deficit in the knowledge of people, citizens and citizens with the content of the Treaty of Lisbon and even in the National Assembly was not a real debate on the subject. The Presidency alone is no excuse for rapid ratification. For that symbolic meaning, the symbolic value of the first state is already lost. They beat us to it. It will certainly be a good example for others and will help to ratify as many countries as possible during the Slovenian Presidency. But if we don't hurry like that, of course, we are aware that we can't change it, it will be ratified as it is. However, this time, even more so when we are chairing, could be used to inform citizens and citizens about the Treaty of Lisbon itself and also help to increase the European awareness that European awareness will increase between citizens and citizens. Here I cannot help but conclude once again that the LDS Club has proposed that the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs should be opened to the public and that we will also contribute to greater information and awareness of citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, however, the proposal was not supported; it was rejected when, on the one hand, Europe is seeking as much openness as possible, on the other hand, this National Assembly still closes the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Let me conclude with the conclusion that the Treaty of Lisbon is a compromise. It will probably be acceptable for all members of the European Union, and as such we also support it in the LDS. At the same time, we wish that ratification in individual countries would not be misused for a variety of abuses or possibly for the interests of the current local policy of those countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives, welcome. I am very pleased to note that we have prepared a great deal, and we are preparing this to discuss the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty Act. At the same time, I note that it is those who have somehow criticised that we have not given enough emphasis, enough time to debate that these persons are not present at the current meeting, so they sound empty. However, the parliamentary group proposed two months ago, the New Slovenia parliamentary group, that Slovenia be among the first to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon. Not because you want to achieve some prestige. But in order for our country to show some fresh wind at the time of the presidency, there is a new impetus for this Europe as well. It was disgruntling and stalling. After all, it came true as it did. Europe needs more connectivity. He needs some fresh wind, he needs freshness in this skepticism. What does European countries actually link? Is it profit, utility, which most citizens or countries think quietly? Is it cohabitation, reciprocity? We have no significant news under this new treaty. Something about efficiency, a greater emphasis on the role of national parliaments, and then perhaps in terms of greater integration, clearer rules for action. However, those ambitions which the Treaty on the Constitution of Europe had previously had, of course, are not being achieved. Unfortunately, the current document, which was a good document, perhaps an even better basis for European integration, remained on the sidelines. Values such as solidarity, reciprocity and more are important. Also those symbols that were mentioned in the previous document. In fact, that's what connects. If we remember our common ground in the previous country. The foundation is on one side of usefulness and on the other side of coercion. When the utility was gone, and the authority had waned, this building collapsed like a house of cards, although it had good ambitions. Therefore, it is necessary to think and take steps to make this joint creation our common house more solid. And this document, the Lisbon Treaty, is one that gives some freshness, some news. Among other things, this freedom and the procedure for each country to be able to withdraw from this community. Thus, the time of the Presidency is our opportunity, as well as the dignity to support the act, if not the first, but the first. To give the impulse that Europe is now lacking. That impulse that De Gasperi, Schuman and Adenauer gave about half a century ago. We don't walk, we don't follow. It is time for the creative role of Slovenia. And that's not self-pity. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will support the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! Much of the content that the text of the Treaty of Lisbon has brought before the EU Member States and thus, of course, before the Republic of Slovenia, has been discussed in our Parliament or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia since the ratification or adoption of the European Constitution of two years ago, which our National Assembly supported with a vast majority. The amendments that the European Constitution's visas, which, of course, were not accepted by individual members or rejected by the referendums, are made by the Treaty of Lisbon, do not represent, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, such changes as to have any thought of changing their positive attitude towards it. We will therefore unanimously support the proposal for a law on its ratification. It is clear that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are also aware that for the common good of the EU, which is also for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, our new co-existence community had to give up something small of its national nature. In every community, it is also necessary to sacrifice something for the common cohesion of this community and not just to use just positive things or things that please us. The Treaty of Lisbon still plays a key role for national parliaments in accordance with the principle of one of the fundamental principles of co-existence in Europe. This is by the principle of subsidiarity. This is a principle that is in addition to another principle, and this is a partnership, one of the key needs if we meet that we can also be satisfied with our community. That's what this contract is called. However, it does not permit a large, excessive presence of national egoism. It therefore establishes or makes possible, in reverse, as the Nice Treaty, further enlargement of the Union as an objective to further stabilise the entire territory of the old continent. Some of the changes made by the Treaty in the field of institutional organisation or Union performance in relation to the existing situation are accepted by the Slovenian People's Party's Group as a good way towards a more rational and effective Union leadership. The emphasis on climate change and the additional commitments adopted by the members of the European Union under the Treaty of Lisbon further encourages us to support this document. For this is primarily good for us, for the European Union and for the whole world. As we say, we will support the ratification law without feeling that this treaty might mean a significant reduction of our national being for the Republic of Slovenia. For we must take the European Union as our new common good, which we no longer incorporate into the hard non-life borders of the nations, and as a good thing, in which we exercise our social and economic capacity, as well as sustainability, with lasting security and stability, and with respect for human rights and personal freedoms. This is the most any member of the community can expect from the community. To be free, to be free part of this community. As we say, we'll be happy to support the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government! We still have a double! So it is likely that it will be a surprise if I point out that in the Group of Members we will really support the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, as we supported the ratification of the Treaty of Constitution with Europe, even though it was later shown that this effort was done without a hitch. We hope or believe that this time it will be different, since this treaty is to be ratified in other Member States other than Ireland as in Slovenia in parliaments and avoid the risks of the fate of the Treaty of Lisbon following the fate of the Treaty of the Constitution. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, the fear that citizens and citizens should decide on the contract directly reveals in fact the weakest part of the current EU regime. This is a clear and serious lack of democratic legitimacy. Let me illustrate. If, in our country, i.e. Slovenia, we had at national level the arrangements we have in the European Union and such a relationship between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, should we, in fact, appoint ourselves a democratic country? Probably not. Of course, some of you will argue, including gentlemen behind my back, that the EU is not a national country, that "sui generis" is up, down, here and there. All of this is true, but still, on a practical political level, we must ask ourselves, and the people who are interested in these things, who are interested in public policy, in whether this is the same transparency, the same democratic veracity and other mechanisms at European Union level are at least as good as they are at state level. And it is clear that this Treaty of Lisbon is going in the direction it must go. And that is to ensure a little more democratic, a little more verifiable, and also a little more parliamentary and through Parliament, if we can believe and hope, also the role of people. However, the urgency of ratifying the Treaty, although I agree that it is right for Slovenia to ratify it during the six-month presidency, this hastens only to strengthen the knowledge of the lack of democratic legitimacy, as there was no serious effort to present and open a debate on the Treaty. So, colleagues and colleagues, maybe some information. We ourselves have found that we ourselves do not know enough and that we ourselves do not have enough time to look at things well enough together. We somehow felt that we should vote on this at this stage of knowledge and understanding as we do. In fact, we have made an effort to provide a document drawn up by Andrew Duff, or a European Member from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, which was written by a leader under the Treaty of Lisbon. We translated it and on the website www.zares.si, I do not do advertising, but I recommend that you read it before the vote because it will make it easier for you to vote. I would add that it is paradoxical that today we will ratify this Treaty of Lisbon, which, as I said, will improve democratic character by increasing the power of the European Parliament, affirming the Charter of Fundamental Rights, by strengthening the rule of law, so that this ratification process will be carried out in a rather alien way. In short, if I could be a little more colorful, I would say that citizens and citizens of the entire European Union will be given more democratic tools without really knowing it. However, in the light of the things we have already heard today, I would like to stress in particular the importance of the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will become legally binding. Although, as it is said, its text is not included in the Treaty of Lisbon. Of course, there is also this shadow of specific criteria for the United Kingdom and Poland, which justify national exceptions to the eligibility of the Charter. But as it turns out, there was no other way or path. Nevertheless, there is a better policy of certain exceptions than on-the-spot stepping, although of course there is a risk that the European Union's acquis will "disperse" in exceptions if this continues. It is important in this Treaty that there is a wide range of other aspects, such as the concept of citizenship and the citizens' initiative, the delimitation of competence to exclusive, shared and supportive authorities. A flexibility clause that allows the European Union to act flexibly in the face of new tasks and obligations that cannot yet be foreseen today, including the right of Member States to exit, and a number of other important arrangements. The Treaty of Lisbon establishes a mechanism of enhanced cooperation that enables nine or more countries to achieve their objectives more easily and decisively by introducing qualified majority decision-making where the principle of consent applies in the Council of 27 countries. This, of course, is the way to the European Union at more speeds. Don't go blind or make illusions. This is, in my opinion, not desirable, but acceptable in a particular area where a country itself decides not to follow the trend and the pace of this integration, not to prevent, say, enhanced cooperation from other countries. So far, so good and so good. At the moment when this enhanced cooperation is based, for example, on the fact that it does not leave a member who would otherwise be willing to cooperate, that is segregation cooperation. And I hope that the mechanism is designed so that such cooperation by a willing country, if I may use this term, will not be impossible if such a country, of course, so wishes. National parliaments are considered to have a greater role to play. The period for a thorough review of draft laws is extended from 6 to 8 weeks. Procedures have been processed. What happens when, first, a third, then half and so on, parliaments do not agree with this? Such a solution seems to be procedurally appropriate. The question is: Is our solution, I would say, to the processing of European Union legislative acts in Parliament now, appropriate from now on? I don't think so. In my view, individual committees and not just the Committee on European Union Affairs will have a significantly greater role to play. Maybe sometimes even some more plenary debate and so on. It is also important to strengthen the Committee of the Regions. And there are a number of other things that, in my opinion, because I am optimistic today, lead to improvements. I hope so, although of course we'll see what happens. Today, the President of the Government, unfortunately he has not been with us for some time now, said that we will decide not only on behalf of today, but we have this right and the possibility of two million people in Slovenia, but we will also decide for all the people of the European Union. That's right. But there is something else. That if this happens, which will be decided against in another Parliament, our vote will also be decided. So this relationship is stronger than it is. Let us hope that these votes will contribute today to synergies, not to our votes falling to nothing again. Today the question was also raised: Do we have to or do we want to? I would say very clearly on behalf of the Zares Group and the parties, not because we have to. But because we want to, because we have highlighted our European direction because we do not believe. Otherwise, Europe is a miracle stick. Because we believe that no one in Europe will solve our problems, but we believe that the wider economic space of human rights for all our citizens and citizens is better, more decent, happier, narrower, smaller and self-sufficient. That's why we want to and not just have to. I have to ask myself, not only what it brings us if we want it, but also what we will be exposed to, what things we will be exposed to if we do not accept it. It is not only a question of what consequences we will suffer if we want to. But the question is, what happens to all of us if we don't want to? This issue, in my view, is more important than any other issue. The current ratification here in this Parliament, in other parliaments, is not a correctional exam. Again, an expression that the Prime Minister would not advise, because someone in Europe will be again, because he is the President, the "wriggler" to me. This, of course, is not a correctional test for a contract which has been very clearly rejected by members in accordance with order 2 and has been decisively rejected. This is a new option, which means and I hope that it will be implemented and that we will all have a positive outcome together and that it will put Slovenia in that circle of nations and countries that have managed to capture a moment of development and a sober view of everything that surrounds us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u50	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which amends the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. The Treaty of Lisbon is a document that is different from the European Constitutional Treaty only in solutions that do not alter the fundamental parts of the content. Therefore, support for this document does not constitute a derogation from the principles already adopted in the functioning of the European Union. More. Some new solutions mean a lighter and higher level of decision-making. Since, as regards individual amendments and additions, almost everything has already been said and listed, as part of our support for the law on ratification of this instrument, I should say that it is among the most important which speaks of the validity of the Charter of Human Rights, which notwithstanding the fact that this Charter is not an integral part of the Treaty. Some other changes are seen as positive, but not as fatal innovations. For example: the introduction of the President of the European Council, the new status of the Court of Justice of the European Community or of the European Bank. The introduction of the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Diplomatic Service, however, constitute a gain which may have contributed significantly to the more unified positions of the Member States whose current behaviour and vision of certain problems has been diametrically opposed. As far as public information is concerned, we are late. It would therefore be appropriate to issue, as soon as possible, a brochure bringing an extract of the Treaty of Lisbon. At least as regards the differences between the European Constitutional Treaty and all households and this weak point behind us. It is true that we have always been aware of the proposed amendments and additions and have decided on them within our Committee on European Affairs. However, since this committee has acted in closed sessions, the public has been better informed about these contents and has thus come to terms with the situation in which this democratic lack of information is objectively present here. However, since this is about the fact that we have already supported the solutions, or not all of the supported European Constitutional Treaty, and we know what is new, this is the Treaty of Lisbon, we will, in the fact that this document was created with the responsible functioning and cooperation of our Government, which has not only represented the new Treaty of Lisbon, but also implemented it, namely, the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon unitedly and gladly supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! I regret that there are so few of us in this important moment and that at least the Foreign Minister is not with us. It would be good to see this happen at the time of ratification. No matter what, let me say the following. When we have dealt with the Constitutional Treaty more than two years ago, and even today, when we deal with Lisbon, we have raised worse concerns at the expense of its content and its effects, in parallel with our Rules of Procedure. And I'm not going to evaluate this document. And I see a scene when we deal with it long and hard, while the problems we have to face and the ones we owe it to escape. So it's time to stop dealing with ourselves. It is time for the EU to stop dealing with itself and, in the face of many and increasingly challenging challenges of the moment and the future, to grow up to be a leading or at least an equal global protagonist so that, say, respected allies from Washington would think twice or more about it or pressure it to start with the current EU presidency. Or they are trying to fail if they can trust the assurances of our President of the Government and our Foreign Minister concerning Kosovo, of course. I have been in Kosovo for the past three days to present examples of good practices and weaknesses, of course, in relation to the relationship and dialogue between civil society and Parliament, in the framework of a European EU assistance project to the Kosovo Assembly together with colleagues from Belgium and France. Then I visited Sarajevo with my colleagues from our Defence Committee for two days. On both visits, I felt a great, immense expectation of understanding, of assistance, of care, of protecting the EU, of the desire of these environments for a safe transition to a better condition, to a better tomorrow. In Kosovo, through independence, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, through the preservation of the country's unity and through the application of its multiculturalism. And if the EU does not play a delicate, demanding, agile, united, determined and unsuspecting United States visas and the expected role, we are warned by the interlocutors from all over the place, the Balkan boiler may be discarded and detonated again. And when I hear such warnings, I think that, unfortunately, the story of the implementation of the Croatian ERC and, of course, the story of the irregular border with the southern neighbour, we're still holding this boiler, and it's a bit of a tightening and worrying to me. There's no time to talk. After me, my fellow Members in the parliamentary group will also talk about telling us more about the environmental and energy challenges that, especially with climate change, consume time. But there is no doubt that the European Union is facing an extremely difficult task. Therefore, with its rules of procedure, which is undoubtedly better than what we have already supported two years ago, hurry and finish. I will give my voice to the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty or to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Let me once again say that, in the Group of Members, on the date of the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, we have understood that it would be good for the Slovenian Parliament to ratify this Treaty of Lisbon, among the first or even the first, and in such a way as to set an example for the other 26 members and to contribute to one positive climate, which is certainly important in ratifying this Treaty of Lisbon. I am pleased to note today that today the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will ratify the Treaty of Lisbon and thus give some positive signal to the other members to follow us. The European nations are united not only for economic reasons but also for moral reasons. From Europe, where two world wars began in the 20th century and caused immensely much distress, after 1945 they wanted to make room for peace, a space of cooperation, a space of freedom, prosperity, social solidarity and, above all, a place of respect for human rights. Pursuing fundamental values has never changed, but it has been strengthened. This Treaty of Lisbon also bears witness. During the Presidency of the Union, Slovenia will pay attention to fundamental values and will promote them in particular in those areas in our neighbourhood and in the world where peace and respect for human rights are particularly threatened. I am sure that there should be a little more optimism in Slovenia, a little more clarity when we think about European content when we think about not only being citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but also of the European Union. I was surprised by the speech given by Mr Martin Šulc, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Head of the European Socialist Group in the European Parliament. In a positive way, he surprised me. So I would like to say that we can learn a lot from others in Europe just to create a positive climate at home. I quote Mr. Schultz, you say this is a historic moment. And you're right, the country that came out of the Communist Party dictatorship now has the Prime Minister of the Government, who was the personal victim of this dictatorship, and this country has now taken the presidency. He's got support. He's got a lot of opportunities to get people's hearts back. Your professional introduction should be an example for the entire year 2008, I do not know what lies ahead for us in the second half of this year, but today you have certainly talked about the real goals. We were talking about political headlines, it's different from other speeches, which means that EU enlargement is not over. We are negotiating this with Croatia, Macedonia and negotiations with Turkey are on the table. Another big difference is, you think that the European Union institutions are strong enough to take care of neighbourhood policy on their own. Bravo, this is a clear statement that our institutions are strong enough and that the world will stand for it. That's right, Mr. Martin Schultz. Let me conclude by thinking that if economic success and political competition are subordinated to higher human values, mutual respect, solidarity, truth, justice, dialogue, peace, we will once again have the joy of life and we will look with confidence and optimism into the future. And I expect this optimism today in the National Assembly when we decide on the law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, everyone. I don't think it's bad if we're among the first to ratify the Lisbon Treaty. Even in the World Cup or the Olympics, it's not bad if you're among the first. However, if this treaty accidentally falls in other countries, it does not matter where we are among those ratifying this treaty. If we are among the first, of course, it is good because we set the example, set the example for others, and of course, we draw good examples. Today, much has been said about the positive priorities of the Treaty of Lisbon. I wouldn't say that again. However, I think it's logical to accept it because we joined the European Union years ago at a referendum, with a plebiscite decision. The European Union needs its own rules. And if we have already gone to the European Union, then some of the rules must also be followed and followed. Today and even in the past, it has been repeatedly mentioned that people are not familiar with content. I think it's true, it's extensive matter. But the truth of the matter must also be said that anyone who wanted to be informed had ample opportunity. In the future, however, it is necessary to ensure that this Treaty is available to people in an acceptable form, as when reading the Treaty of Lisbon, man needed to be included in the Treaty on European Union and in the Treaty establishing the European Community. Therefore, it would be good to have a concise text available. In the new text, I think it's an important chapter around the courts. There was nothing to say about that. I think there's been a lot of positive changes. With regard to European courts, it might be possible to refer to paragraph 230, which is amended by the fourth subparagraph, which reads as follows: "Natural or legal persons may, under the conditions laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2, bring an action against or against the acts addressed to them directly and individually, and against the rules directly applicable to them, but do not need implementing measures." If Minister Sturm were here, maybe there's more to explain. However, I think that this Treaty of Lisbon still brings greater legal certainty for Slovenian citizens. I have recently spoken with representatives of the Slovenian minority in the Austrian Koroška, who also welcome the Treaty of Lisbon, because they also believe that this will make the way to European courts shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u58	A nice welcome to the four representatives of the Government and to almost 15 representatives of Parliament! Let me continue where my predecessor, Mr Friday, finished or started, and I say that ratification is not a sport competition and also is not a ring or an Olympic competition, where it would probably be a rule that is signed by the first is worth something. Not at all. Ratification should, to a greater extent, be a test of the behaviour and awareness or understanding of the contract itself. Therefore, I personally think that it would be more appropriate and meaningful if it were not to catch itself in this competition, who will be first, but perhaps to ratify the Treaty at the end of the Presidency of the European Union, which, after all, gives further impetus to the reflection on what this document means. I was in France just after the European Treaty referendum failed years ago, and I also faced the pain of those advocates who were dissatisfied with this result. But they were sober and admitted, "it is true, it was a question of Turkey, but it was also a question of ignorance to a large extent." And ignorance often causes fear and doubt, which, if they do not have answers, results in withdrawal and defensive position. And this ignorance is certainly present to a large extent, I am not saying that it is equal, but at this point it is true, I am not the only one today who warns of this ignorance, what this paper also brings, I mean, the Treaty of Lisbon, not paper, this extensive document, which our Government representatives say is really complicated, but at the same time do not take that step to make this document more accessible, accessible and clear to the general public. Here's the problem. The problem is this ignorance, which in some way triggers this, what is heard today, the fear of how this treaty will allow other countries to expand and once come to this association to eat and eat us alone. It creates one nationalistic or egotistical view and removes all those integration possibilities or integrations of differences that such a European association, through the Treaty, combines into a common denominator and also into a defence of this egoism. Due to the challenges faced by modern society, a society of globalisation, it is right to carry out these challenges together, and it is right to identify and defend them strategically. I am, of course, talking about the advantages of the European Union which it is currently putting before itself: the issue of climate change, climate, energy resources, international terrorism, cross-border crime, asylum, human rights and so on and so forth. Let me stress once again, I believe that this awareness of European citizenship education or civic thinking should be significantly more present. And once again, I say that 'nonsense' or pushing what is elsewhere, some say what was once in Belgrade, is now in Brussels. Pushing aside or transferring to someone else is actually seen in everyday life. We have adopted a law ordering public television to transmit parliamentary developments as mandatory to the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, but not the spirit or hearing about the key decisions that are taking place within the European Parliament. No, that's somewhere else. However, we do not live in a fundamental safe world, although it has been an extraordinary privilege for us to have peace for half a century in Europe. And the European Union is seen as important, at least to some extent; not only does it prevent but it also prevents outbreaks of collective private egoism. As has already been said, in fact we will support this ratification, we would like to come to the table with more time, with more opportunities to discuss it and get to know it. After all, it will not enter until the beginning of 2009 - if.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State, representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Treaty of Lisbon is, after the unadopted Constitutional Treaty, a kind of emergency exit, useful and necessary for Europe, for its role in the world and also for Slovenia. It is true that I had the opportunity to participate in the conclusion period of the Convention, that I am also sorry that the text which was more transparent, although it was extensive and comprehensive, was not adopted. I therefore share the assessment, which is also present in the European Parliament, that this Treaty is somewhat worse or not as good as the Constitutional Treaty, but is still much better than the existing treaties that are actually being amended by this Treaty. It is therefore good and responsible, especially given the Presidency of Slovenia, that the National Assembly will ratify this Treaty as soon as possible, this is today. There is no substantive argument to delay ratification. Early ratification is symbolic and practical. It is right that both the Government and the National Assembly in the Presidency are endeavouring to ratify the Treaty as soon as possible. And our early ratification is, among other things, a good example. Those who have, perhaps even justified, some comments on the content of the Treaty and on some of the compromises that have been the reality of this Europe and which have been the condition that an agreement on the Treaty has been reached at all, I would like to respond in the belief that it is not realistic to expect that if we continue to discuss and negotiate, it is not realistic to expect better solutions. Especially not better solutions for small and new members, and not for Slovenia. Time does not work for small and new members. I am also convinced by the personal experience already mentioned in the Convention on the Constitutional Treaty. I am confident that the Treaty of Lisbon will help to make the European Union's role in the global world more united and urgent, both in relation to other large countries and to other regions, as well as within international organisations. UN, World Trade Organization, International Monetary Fund, World Bank and others. This is both the case for political security issues, and there is progress in having, in saying, the 'common foreign minister', even though it will not be so called, as well as on economic development and financial issues. Among other things, it is very important that this international global dimension is also highlighted in another very important document or documents that we have discussed on the previous Thursday on the two committees here in the National Assembly, and we will also discuss this in the European Parliament on 11 and 12 February. This is a new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy, as it is added or highlighted between the strategic ten objectives. This is the so-called international or global dimension, which means a greater role in this economic and social area as well as in other areas. The time has come for the European Union to finally play a bigger and more unified role in the global world. This will also give new opportunities for faster and better development of the European Union itself and thus Slovenia. With the exception of greater efficiency and greater balance of European institutions, the Treaty, particularly greater emphasis on the European Parliament and the national parliaments, the social partners, these local and regional levels, as well as non-governmental organisations, will mean actually greater democratisation, greater approximation of the EU's functioning for citizens and citizens. When asking a question that some colleagues have also asked today, what Slovenia acquires by contract, it seems to me an important answer that this will depend largely not only on the text of the treaty, but on the conduct of both the government and Parliament, as well as other factors. It also depends to the most extent on how we will better present this treaty, bring it closer to the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. And I conclude only with the proposal that an integrated and transparent text, a common text and a summary should be made as soon as possible after ratifications. We are one such summary, relatively very good, where the novelties of the contract have already been in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ferry Horvath, for turning off his microphone. Thank you for your word, too. I'm gonna get everybody together and say good-bye. First, one simple replica of Mrs. Shirca. If I read the whole RTV Slovenia Act, I would know that it also gives special attention to the members of the European Union, to the international links in which we, their institutions and the RTV Slovenia, are reporting on this properly and comprehensively in accordance with journalistic ethics. On this basis there are also special broadcasts that are already underway. Mrs. Shirca can be sure of them every Saturday. Thus, her statements in this direction are entirely unfounded. Today the topic is the Treaty of Lisbon, and here is actually one decision that is more important than it seems at first sight. Regardless of the fate of the European Constitution, regardless of the fact that no one can safely guarantee that the Treaty of Lisbon will be adopted, however, there is a very, very high likelihood that the statements and actions of representatives of all the European Union will also be effectively enforced. That means a lot of things. On the one hand, this means that our leadership of the European Union, which is taking place in these days, is why a number of people are more busy and cannot be present at this Chamber all the time, especially here I think of the government representatives that this is a unique opportunity for the implementation of Slovenia. All I regret is that, in many cases, the opposition has formed a public opinion with its influence, as if it were something completely irrelevant. It is interesting, however, that this same opposition puts forward when it comes to the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, I quote, "on the issue of awareness of European identity and of the particular issue of a positive attitude towards the European Union and its institutions," because this is very important for the creation of a common awareness of common values, of the common tradition and of the whole community that Europe is now representing is extremely important. In this part, I agree with them. It is interesting, however, that this is done by the same opposition, who, just a few weeks ago, when the question of the confidant of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was on the agenda, proposed that Slovenia give up leading the European Union and leave it to the next country on the list, in particular France. That's very interesting. How, then, should people create a positive awareness of the European Union and its institutions in such a relationship, when it is obvious that for some it is the only value to vote by power and that they are therefore willing to do anything with their country. Even if they take away a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for history to be established in the world, to present itself, to lead, to become an actor in world politics to the extent that it was only and only at the time of independence, in this part the European Union's leadership is comparable even to Slovenian independence. These opposition colleagues would rather reject this because the government that does this is not theirs. This is an interesting attitude towards my own country, I must say, which is reflected at all levels. And from this I would also point to the next key message. The Treaty of Lisbon, which is before us, introduces the basic thinning thread that wet the European Union. When Schumann, Adenauer, De Gasper and other EU fathers, as we like to call them, came from creating a Europe of values. This expression has been used many times. And what are these values? I guess you don't have to count them. But let's look at the concrete behavior in the light of these values. And for this reason, because of the arguments I will now present, I would, however, suggest to some opposition parties that will certainly be very clearly recognised in my words to reconsider their decision on the Treaty of Lisbon. This may sound strange, but it is important to know that the Treaty of Lisbon even explicitly obliges adherents to respect the values of the EU. And that's what the contract says. And now let's look at this in the light of the actual negotiation. Only yesterday, a representative or SD Group president attacked the Prime Minister because he used the term used by all Europe, which has been used by the EU institutions for more than 60 years, and this was a problem. And because he was telling the truth, it was a problem. Is that European? I say that this is all something else, but not European. Look, I don't know, on the one hand, I could say, it's just a momentary amnesia, a memory loss, but it's actually a red thread of events that's been beautifully reflected even recently, when we had a special celebration dedicated to the victims of the totalitarian regime from 1945 to 1990, and it's the same SD, complete with the gentleman who spoke yesterday, ignored. They weren't there. Is that European? That's rude and unpetitive. This is not European conduct. You know, for that reason, things really should be taken a real look. Even if someone says yes, it's only a few months now. Let's look a little further back. At the reconciliation ceremony in Kočevska Rog, the president of the same party was at the graves of mass seas with his hands in his pocket. Is that European? Please! For this reason, it is necessary to know that if we accept European values, that if we commit to a treaty, this must be taken seriously and that it must be done with full responsibility. Look, when I point this out, there's something else to be warned about. The station is double criteria. Worse! Look at the case. When the president of the SD criticised the Prime Minister, he told him that he was saying something that the whole of Europe was saying. So he spoke European and he was telling the truth. However, he did not mention a single event in which Slovenia is truly unique throughout the history of the European Union. I return to that positive attitude towards the European institutions. And I quote Mr. Runaway himself, who said that it was essential how our elected representatives acted. At the opening address of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who represented our country, our joint programme, all of us, the institutions of the European Union, the European Parliament, raised the question of the so-called press petition, even though she knew exactly that petition was a collection of the biggest non-truths in the history of Slovenia. And if it wasn't clear to her before, it's already happened to Mag, who's been putting all this petition on a lie from the first to the last line and things show up in real light. There's been a lot of other things, like, but that doesn't bother anyone. But where is the question of patriotism, a positive attitude towards one's own country, which is also one of the foundations of the European Community? The European Community is based on the principle that you are a member of your country, that you are committed to it, loyal to it, and, on the other hand, trying to create awareness of the community, there is a positive attitude towards the European Union community as a whole. Is this in line with ethics and values that form the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon? No, no, no. This is totally contrary to the basis on which the European Union is established. This is what we should now think deeply about and decide whether we are doing something, as some have said, just in case, or whether we are genuinely deciding on some values. I say that Slovenians as a nation, as citizens and citizens of this country, have already decided on these values. To this, I say, we are committed to 90% of those who were shown at the referendum on the accession of the European Union just a few years ago. That's what we're all committed to. But then why don't our elected representatives take this into account, at least those of the opposition, I've given some examples in my conduct. Because of this, they then shed a bad light on Slovenia as a whole, which is why people do not see what is now happening in the real light. In a way, it is sad that this is a way of taking people's sincere joy at this one-time achievement that Slovenia has achieved in its history and which is likely, if the Treaty of Lisbon is established, and there is much chance for this, as we have said, this opportunity will never happen again. Then how is it possible that all of this is happening, as I was just talking about? Look, a similar case is also a matter of entering the Schengen area. What historical dimensions does this event have? All Slovenians, because of our membership in the European Union, are now actually living in one space because of our entry into the Schengen area. Today to travel to Trieste, somewhere in Koroška, for example to Beljak, Celovac is no different than to travel from Ljubljana to Maribor. There's no limit anymore, no one's gonna control you. This is the achievement of this space, and that is, if you will, also the achievement of this state, this government. Of course, this government has engaged itself, of course we have already been put in the waiting room and the Government has made excellent efforts, with diplomacy, to hasten that we have already become members of Schengen. Well done for her! But why can't people be told what the actual historical dimensions of this event are? Because it's the wrong government. It's not what it used to say, it's not in the power of "our man." That's the problem. And as long as this relationship is that way, we must first clean ourselves up before our threshold in order to at least unify ourselves in something. When it comes to the fundamental tasks of our country, we should be united. Here's the basic problem. This is something incomprehensible that happens to us. Do you imagine that, for example, Croatia, which is shown so many times in a negative light, would be, for example, by all of us. In order for this to happen in Croatia for their prime minister to take place in the European Parliament, their country's programme and their Member or their Member there would start to embarrass him with some evident, obvious falsehoods in front of the entire European community. You know what would happen to those people when they returned to Croatia. And what a hall it would be before we came back the next day. I have not seen one comment anywhere where it would say that something like this has never happened in the history of the European Union. He didn't. I guarantee you it's not because I even checked it in the European Parliament. It is not a case of systematic, deliberate, lying shame on the part of elected representatives when a programme was presented at the start of the European Union's leadership. It's not a case, it's just Slovenia! This is something that, of course, casts a terrible dark stain on the opposition that does this, on all those who have also been political sponsors. I deeply regret that this is the case, but I regret even more that this has cast a dark stain on the country as well as on the whole. And in this light, I hope that the decision on the Lisbon Treaty will be truly sincere. With all of those, I'll be among them alone, who'll be pressing the decisive button today. And that this does not only mean accepting some paper, but it will be a real, conscious decision to put European values into practice once and for all, even in our space, in order to establish European behaviour and European political practice also in our political dialogue, so that a systematic and planned building of a political culture, in which an important component of awareness of European identity and a positive attitude towards the European Union and its institutions, will also be established. If this decision is conscious, firm and lasting, then the decision for the Treaty of Lisbon will achieve its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u63	Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. When we decided to join the European Union in Slovenia and when the vast majority of people and people of Slovenia supported this step, our expectations were very high. On the other hand, fears were also expressed as to whether the European Union would be effective, whether this rather liberal and unrestrained lady would find an effective place and her place to belong in the European space. And four years later, after enlargement, it turned out that the European Union was developing faster, that old and new members were developing faster. However, it is clear to us that we need new rules and new freshness so that a large family of nations can function and function even more effectively. I believe that the Treaty of Lisbon, which constitutes a complement to the basic Treaty and brings new knowledge and new procedures, is a new concept that it can be an appropriate instrument for more effective action, for greater integration, for the European Union to be even more effective outside, so that its operation can also be in line with its economic power, which no one can take away from it. And I believe that Slovenia has a great opportunity at the time of the Presidency of the European Union to contribute, by its own example, to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, because I believe that the European Union is a place where we can make better progress in the area of economics, human rights and freedoms, and therefore I also support the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I wish to say that I regret that the National Assembly did not have the power to hold a longer debate on the Treaty of Lisbon. In the UK, we will be discussing this issue for 20 days, and we were told on a recent visit by parliamentarians from the lower house of the European Parliament. Why is that important? This is important because there are serious problems in the European Union today. Today, when the President of the Government, the President of the European Council, here represents the Treaty of Lisbon, some others are already implementing the Treaty of Lisbon. Today in London is the Sarkozy-Brown-Merkelov-Prodi meeting, which introduces Europe, not two or three speeds. Why is the President of the European Council not invited, Mr Janez Janša? Is this just because, under the Treaty of Lisbon, the President of the European Council is already in office with a mandate of two and a half years? These are fundamental issues of the Treaty of Lisbon. I'm sorry he's not here. I would ask him how he imagines equal rotation of Commissioners. How does Slovenia imagine that it will preside equally if it is not in London today? The meeting in London is because of a very banal thing: the global financial markets have collapsed and the European Union is being reorganized. When the gas crisis occurred a good year ago, the then Prime Minister of neighbouring Austria, as President of the European Council, met on the subject of the gas crisis. Janez Janša is not invited to the meeting today. Maybe because he was discussing the Iron Curtain without knowing the facts. As far as I know, Slovenia, along with the rest of Yugoslavia, may have been behind the Iron Curtain, for example, by 1948 or 1965, when the economic reforms introduced red passports and, if not earlier, on the Western border, but at least under the OEMs, there was no Iron Curtain as at our Western border to Hungary or as at the border between, if you wish, Austria and Slovakia, if you were going to Czechoslovakia in the 1980s. Hence, such talkers are not invited to important interviews. The Treaty of Lisbon may not prevent Europe from being introduced at two speeds, but this is primarily up to us. And if there is a problem here that someone from the opposition asks the President-in-Office of the European Council whether he understands the historical facts correctly, then we belong to this second rate. And I hope that today the President of the European Council will tell us something about why he is not at a meeting in London and why he misunderstands the historical facts surrounding the Iron Curtain. The Treaty of Lisbon is a correction or correction of the lack of democracy we have in the EU. I welcome the increased and strengthened role played by national parliaments in the Lisbon Treaty. However, gentlemen, will we be able to correct the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and open the meetings of the EU Affairs Committee when we ratify the Lisbon Treaty for the Public. The Treaty of Lisbon provides for open meetings of the General Affairs Committee, open meetings on all issues, except perhaps on issues that are under pressure from someone from Washington. That is why today's debate is limited to the time we have. Unfortunately, however, it shows, given the debate we have already witnessed, that democracy in the EU is very different. I'll confirm the Lisbon Treaty myself. I'll give my vote. Your understanding of the Treaty of Lisbon will be tested when we discuss whether we are able to open Friday's meetings of the EU Affairs Committee to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Excuse me, but instead of Mr Juban, Mr Moge was written on the other side, which is why Mr Moge now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I was very surprised and I think Prime Minister Janez Janša had a good speech, which I agree with almost most of this speech. I was born in the Third Reich myself, I spent my youth in Tito's Federation, I experienced the dream of our grandfathers that we had our own country, but now I can walk all over Europe without a passport and pay with the same money, which seems like some fantastic story that happened to me in this life. And that is why, of course, I will support these things that we are dealing with today. I must say that for 10,000 years our civilization has been building gradually, gradually, and that in the last period it has been frantical to me, how many good and positive changes have happened. If we look at the origins of the Sumerians, and their culture, we have 60 minutes left, and the Egyptians, and the Greeks and the Romans with the excellent philosophers who created this civilization from Eratosthenes, we might say Pythagoras, and some philosophers and so on, who are still alive and whose philosophy still survives this society that we build on today. It seems to me that that book, the fat one, if you were watching, the Zaton of Europe, was premature, and that it is with such acts that we are doing today that we are making just a leap into some new quality of life in this Europe, in Europe, as we have known it, I can only say that it has been shared by wars. Two world wars have taken place here in this space and nations have sworn among themselves. That Europe, if I use Janšev's term once again, was divided by an iron curtain both ideologically and on the market side and everything else, that the Europeans certainly did not benefit from it, and at her expense in these wars and such a division of another country outside our continent prospered, flowers, sold us certain things that we needed most at that time. And that Europe from this status as a cradle of civilization is the first steam machine and Newton is the genius Einstein with a relative theory, and Karl Friedrich Gauss, and Bach, and so on. If you look at who's been winning the Nobel Prizes lately, we haven't been in any trouble. And we've stagnated in all areas. We were not one of the most successful economically either. Although it is necessary to say, as far as the Asian nations, the great Chinese or India are concerned, that we have lived on an inappropriately better standard, that we have lived better, but this was not the reason for us to try to continue this fight with a smaller pair, which is becoming increasingly relentless, either on the market or on the scientific segment and also on the security segment of this society. It seems to me that with this move, when the Iron Curtain fell, when Europe began to unite, in Europe, it is possible that, as far as the Consulate of Europe itself as such, we could also establish conditions that will allow us to once again be as bright as ever in the civilisation of this world. Europe is not meant for itself. Europe is meant for all mankind, and as I see it, I am looking at this Europe. State works are changing. I've already told you about my life. But if I went five knees back, I'd better not tell a story 'cause I'd spend all my time on my buddy. State creations are changing and state stories are such that they can contribute to the civilization of some kind of development or completely wipe out this civilization and bring it back to some barbaric times. It seems to me that this event is today, which we are witnessing to him, and when we are probably all in favour of supporting this treaty, it is also one of the conditions for Europe to move forward or at least have the conditions for it to become a cradle of our civilization. It seems to me that, unlike what has happened twice in the bloody fields in the previous century, this time one reason has been won, which will bring us prosperity, greater development, and which will also bring us conditions to move more evenly and to distribute more evenly the goods that are not yet distributed as they should be. That is why I think today is also one of the holidays for our small country, but at the same time beautiful, and I think that on this day, I don't know to my colleague, if I can be a little of a tutor, it's not appropriate to have a hard time accounting, showing mistakes to one party and another what's going on. This thing shouldn't be a client clearing range. That's why I said in the beginning, Prime Minister Janša had a good speech and we should respect that when it comes to big things and go this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. At some point, I had the opportunity to work in one of the European institutions, and I must say that I have heard a lot of good, beautiful things about our country, and I have always been proud to come from the country of Slovenia. As an observer in the European Parliament, many times other Slovenia has been set as an example for the successful implementation of certain measures in different policies, and in this way it was also somehow, at least from my point of view, to expect Slovenia to be one of the first to play a leading role in the European Union in the proposal. It has even happened that we are the first to preside over the European Union. But with this we take on the great responsibility and expectations of the entire European Union, not only for citizens and citizens, how we will regulate our internal relations, but how we will also regulate our relations in the global world. Slovenia is a representative of the European Union, who has set herself the goal of being a knowledge-based society, and we want to pay great attention to knowledge. That is why we also set priorities for the European Union economy to build an economy that will be the world's most competitive. Of course, institutions operating in the European Union should be effective. I was surprised that, after a failed attempt to ratify the Treaty on European Union in such a short time, the European Union was able to find the power to actually form the Treaty of Lisbon. So this is a very short time for me in which the European Union has found the power to create this compromise. Slovenia was also an integral part of this process. I would like to see Slovenia, as it is often said today, that we have already determined our will in the future by the 2003 referendum and the 2005 ratification. Of course I don't agree with that. We are now co-forming European policies, and in this way not only do we need to be known by speed, but we also need to be known by our models. So also by their models, how to propose certain ways to the European Union. Now that we are chairing, we represent the priorities of Slovenian Presidency throughout the European Union. I have been given one such presentation in the European Parliament. Perhaps I was a little disappointed in the context of Slovenia offering more palettes of originality. Therefore, several ranges of originality can also be achieved in areas that cannot be achieved during these six-month periods. Therefore, one of Slovenia's original models can be how we will deal with future documents that will be dealt with either by our Parliament or by the Government or by the world or by the European Institute. I think that the Treaty of Lisbon could be one of the opportunities to design this model. I wasn't the only one listening on the radio today to the reactions of citizens and citizens who are talking about not actually knowing anything about it. And, of course, given that the President of the Government has also talked about how the European Union countries will approach the Treaty of Lisbon differently and accept it, I do not know why Slovenia is known only at exceptional speeds. It could also be known that it is extremely successful in reducing the criticism of citizens and citizens of the European Union after a democratic deficit. Why doesn't Slovenia make a breakthrough here? I also ask myself here, members and members of our Parliament, how much interest it is to form and co-create the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Council through the treatments on the home labour bodies. There's not much of that ambition. Above all, there is no ambition for in-depth discussions on content, and many times there is no ambition to find original solutions that would, say, typically be ours and would be offered to decide and design certain solutions and lifestyles as a common European solution. Here it seems to me that very, very much effort should be made to focus on thinking about how we will share the European Union's competences and the European Union institutions, which are on the one hand exclusive, on the other hand shared and on the third hand complementary. Of course, we have four freedoms that we are actually building on development policies in the European Union. Of course, when I ask myself about health policy within the European Union, I often wonder whether a breakthrough in health policy will be possible if it is still an exclusive national priority. How to talk about regulating the free movement of people, the labour force, while at the same time talking about the fact that it is very difficult to accept the free movement of patients, i.e. the free movement of patients, and that this is a major problem with regard to the nationality and national tradition of individual Member States. Here will be models that will have to be set as a challenge in Slovenia, which will, of course, propose certain solutions in the future for the whole of the European Union. And in this way, we can also build that we will have more, not only on paper, written powers in national parliaments, but that we will be able to do so. Therefore, the Treaty of Lisbon, which I will support, I consider as an intermediate step in the further construction of the European Union institutions, as a global partner in the development of today's world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present in this hall. Although there are fewer of us, I do not know whether because today it is some kind of holiday of this temple of democracy or it is supposed to be a holiday for the whole of Slovenia. Several important events have already occurred in these few years of independent Slovenia. Just as the Slovenians were united and went to a referendum on Slovenia's independence, we were similar when we decided to join the European Union at the referendum. And I'm glad it was. I would expect that today, when we ratify this Treaty of Lisbon, we would be as united as we were at the time of our independence and at the time of the referendum on the accession of the European Union. I am convinced that today's ratification is not an appropriate point to measure the opposition and the position where the strengths would be measured and the evidence given. During this period of independence, we have already adopted the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. Here, in this National Assembly, we have accepted the matter, ratified it, but unfortunately this has not happened in all the countries of the European Union. I was alone with some of the parliamentarians in France, at the time that she rejected this treaty, and we heard from several mouths some kind of justification for why this happened to them, that I might not say even some kind of regret. But everyone was saying that it is likely that this sobriety will have not only negative but also positive consequences. And the fact that we have today before us the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is a positive issue is a new solution on this common European path. On 1 January last year, we introduced the euro. We have entered the area of one European currency, which has further anchored us in this Europe. In December last year, we also opened up the border to this Europe, and I will say that we have finally anchored in Europe. More than once, there was talk of an iron curtain that was or was not. But we know when we wanted to cross the border, we had to stop there. As a student, I experienced such a special event in 1979 when I traveled across Western Europe. Two, three students' buses were what reception we had on our way back to Slovenia, when we first waited many hours, when everyone from the bus, when they cut us open all the things we bought in Western Europe, a man today with a smile remembers that event. But dear colleagues, that was in 1979. Well, if I return to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon that we are considering today, I must say that I am convinced that this Treaty is very important for Slovenia. It seems important to me that, despite the difficult conditions, the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights has also been given legal validity, that, despite the difficult feasibility in practice, the role of national parliaments has increased and that some of the pressing issues of the European Union, which are related to the illegal abuse and criminal associations associated with it, under the common transport policy, can be decided more quickly on and could be listed in legal cooperation in the judicial field. Indeed, the Treaty of Lisbon constitutes a weaker legal framework for individual members than the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. However, it contains some substantive changes which are very important for the further development of the European Union and for Slovenia as well. I will end with what one of the predecessors has already said, this is colleague Gantar, that we will not today because we have to, but because we want to, support and accept this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I think it is very important that, in the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, we recognize that all citizens of the Member States of the European Union are also citizens of the European Union and, if this is the case, we can say very much that this Treaty of Lisbon also very precisely defines democratic principles within the European Union. It is important that we be aware in this respect that, if we are additional citizens of the European Union at the time of national citizenship, we must regulate our lives both within the European Union and beyond its borders. And this treaty defines all of this significantly better than has been resolved so far, because there will be substantial more powers for the European Parliament. Even if we look beyond the borders of the European Union, we also get our common foreign and security policy, which means that the European Union will still consolidate its position in the world. And if it strengthens its position in the world of the European Union, we are strengthening our position also by all members and, finally, Slovenia itself. That is why I will gladly support the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, and I wish to see that we work as best as possible within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenk Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I will also be happy to support the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, because we are all aware of all the gains we have made as a member of the European Union during these years, or we are all aware of our starting position as a starting point and of what we have already achieved as a single country or as an associate member of the European Union. That is why I also agree with some colleagues that today is a holiday, but there is already a first problem here, because unfortunately holidays in Slovenia are celebrated differently and some holidays that have tied our independent country are not marked by external flags, there are no flags on the houses such as would be suitable for such a day. So, I saw in all the debates some attempt at delaying that Slovenia, as the President of the State, would not feel comfortable. However, we are all aware, all of us are still well-remembered of some starting position when we were certainly behind the Iron Curtain, because Article 113 on the Verbal Delicacy belongs to the Iron Curtain and some other events, such as the monetary system and so on, would not comment on this. I just want to say, some in the previous Iron Curtain system have stood in privileged positions and have seen across the Iron Curtain. However, some of us also received a way out of the Iron Curtain for a day or two and then returned even worse. We are aware of the acquisition within the European Union. Globalisation took place at that time. A small nation of two million would certainly have a harder time coping with its consequences than we could have mitigated within the great semi-millionthousand community. Remember, in the past there were at least five customs between London and Ljubljana, at least five currencies that prevented the free movement of goods and services. Today there have also been some concerns about the enlargement of the European Union. The observer can see that the enlargement of the European Union has slowed mainly for one reason, as the gap between candidates and Member States is growing. Slovenia certainly had a better starting position and has made good use of this, so new candidates may be able to do so even after 2012. There was talk of a referendum, it must only be in Ireland. It was said that in several countries, even at the final stage in ours today, but only spoke. In some countries, there is also talk of a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon because they may have some additional weapons in negotiations with Brussels. Moreover, the Irish Members I have met recently are aware of their responsibilities and little fear, but what if a similar event occurs in Ireland than in the years before in the Netherlands and in France. At the same time, however, everyone claims that there is a good European atmosphere in Ireland, as it is the Irish and Finns who may have gained the most by entering the European Union. The thought was that of a number of Members. Those who have read the material well may know that each country has the least, I think six MEPs and a maximum of 96 and then it is shared within the ratio. In principle, however, the number of Members has decreased and the number of Commissioners will be reduced. It's going to go down because of that - bureaucracy. The new European Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, brings a whole bunch of profits. This may be the greatest increase in the role of national parliaments and, through national parliaments, voters and voters in individual countries have a greater chance of co-decision within processes within the European Union. The role of the European Union as an external political entity will also be increased. Even now, the European Union is successfully integrated into various peace and economic flows in the world, and this increased role will only lead to European success. The simplified decision-making is also a qualified majority or so-called majority, on the one hand facilitating the decision-making process. At the same time, there is still sufficient leverage to express the will of individual countries, as the possibility of a four-member veto or some form of referendum is still open when it gives an initiative to about one million people. An important fact is also, if we do not like it, we have a legal possibility of leaving the European Union. Finally, I would like to point out that, as President-in-Office, we have certainly a great responsibility, and today shows us that we are aware of these responsibilities and we accept this responsibility and commit ourselves to doing our job well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. The government's well-known representatives. We do not have much time to discuss in New Slovenia, but I would still like to add one thought to this. It has been said that this, I would say, second chance or a revised opportunity of the Treaty of Lisbon offers an opportunity to expand the European Union. And those who proposed the referendum claimed that this enlargement was actually threatening us. I would like to add that if we think that way, we can also conclude that we are equally threatened by non-proliferation. So, as long as we have in European work and beyond European work, unequal conditions for development as long as the nations face various problems - social, economic and so on, this threat of conflict will continue to be present; whether or not the European Union expands. Of course, greater security is if we expand, rather than not, and thus create an opportunity for faster development for those who enter the European Union. I did not support the referendum, and I think it would be really pointless to do a referendum on such a large document, and even then Slovenian people would not know anything more about this European Treaty than they know at this time. But I will support this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. She's got a word for Mrs. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the level of debate that some MEPs have in the National Assembly, and to the representatives who represent and represent this country at home and also abroad. I think that some of the debates of some opposition Members are non-members of the National Assembly, who do not come to the elected representatives of the National Assembly and do not mean any good will, but, above all, make sure that this Government and its representatives are discreet at all possible levels, wherever they occur, both domestically and in the European Parliament. I think we should consider whether this is also a priority for any of the parliamentary groups or political parties or whether there is something else. In short, I would like to propose that we establish a level appropriate to the country which holds the Presidency of the European Union. Now, personally, I think it makes sense that we ratify this Treaty of Lisbon as soon as possible, because the Republic of Slovenia has chaired the European Union since 1.1 this year, and one priority is also to ensure that European countries ratify or adopt this Treaty as soon as possible. It should itself be an example in this area, because the ratification of the European Treaty is certainly in the interest of the State, the interest of Slovenia. For the tasks it brings and which Slovenia has taken over are also in this context and it is really necessary to do so here. Slovenia is not and must not be the country that would cause the ratification of the European Treaty to move away, but it must also, by its example, help to do so as soon as possible. It is very important that the ratification is supported by the majority of parliamentary parties, the vast majority of parliamentary parties, which is to be understood as a wish in one part as well, for Slovenia to perform its role and its task during the presidency in a responsible and exemplary manner. At the same time, it must be said that a large majority of the content of the Treaty of Europe has already been presented before, when we addressed the so-called European Constitution. The essential content has not changed in this work and I must say that I find it difficult to agree that the public is not sufficiently informed. The key themes have also been reopened when this Treaty of Lisbon was discussed, and the one who wanted to, with fundamental content, fundamental changes, fundamental emphasis, but it can also be true that for the needs of everyday policy, it is true that it is just a reminder of some things, such as lack of information, that there are very good reasons why there are simply no other content and other valid reasons for criticising the Government. Now, what does the European Treaty of Lisbon bring? It also has a slightly greater impact on the Republic of Slovenia, as this gives us an additional Member in the next term. The Lisbon Treaty strengthens the role of national parliaments, as we have often found that there is a deficit in this area and, above all, that is essential, that there is a significantly greater opportunity and that new areas of joint policy planning are opening up in some other important areas. And it is precisely the impetus of the new policies that needs to be given special attention, so I also support today's ratification.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE PATIENT'S RIGHTS LAW. At its 1st extraordinary meeting on 24 December 2007, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-judge the Patient Rights Act before declaring the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the request. Mr. Peter Požun, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u82	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Committee of the National Health Council considered the State Council's request that the National Assembly decide again on the Patients' Rights Act, and most members of the Health Committee agreed that such a law in Slovenia was absolutely necessary. The content of the law itself is also considered by some members of the Committee to be completely uncoordinated, professionally incomplete and implementing, which could lead to significant problems in the implementation of this law. As rapporteur of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia alone, as well as an agent in the field of health, I am obliged to present a statement of reasons for veto on the Patient Rights Act. In addition, I must point out that I have received a number of comments on the adopted law by the Association of Consumers of Slovenia, the Association of Nurses, the Ombudsman of Patients from Maribor, the Union of Chronic Patients of Slovenia and others. In addition, I must point out that Europe Donna, a Slovenian association against breast cancer, has expressed opposition to this law, even though the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on the veto of the State Council, has stated that this association agrees with the law adopted. The protection of the rights of the weak is a criterion of the democracy of society and certainly the patient in the health system is unfortunately the weakest member, and this is why special attention is also being paid. Since we are all potential candidates for any form of disease, of course we do not want anyone to do so, it is very important to us, because when it comes to health, we are all extremely sensitive. The procrastination veto on the Patients' Rights Act was adopted by the Council of State on the initiative of civil society, patient associations, the Ombudsman, consumer associations, and also in the light of the fact that the proposal we received was backed up by the threat of patient associations to collect signatures for the referendum, which, if possible, would stop the adoption of this necessary law for one year. The procrastination veto was adopted after careful consideration by the state councils in order to re-examine the law and its effects. Certainly, however, the state councilors strongly reject the political attempt to disqualify the State Council in order to be a veto result of Slovenian nativity, as Mrs Minister for the Slovenian Press Agency has estimated. This assessment of it has, of course, negatively surprised us, especially given that the President of the Government only a day before this statement gave a positive assessment of the work and role of the Council of State and provided support in finding the possibility of the State Council becoming more involved in the legislative process. The procrastination veto is the constitutional attribute of the Republic of Slovenia and by no means the mentality of the principles of individuals. The Council of State has focused on articles which should regulate the protection of patient rights, but not on the grounds that the law does not provide for sanctions and penalties for fulfilling obligations, such as the Consumer Protection Act. The Law on Patient Rights is flawed in this respect, compared to the Consumer Protection Act, even though it relates to the health of all of us and not to objects. Thus, it does not provide for sanctions for failure to ensure the rights granted to the patient by the proposed Articles 9 and 15, nor does the law provide for sanctions for exceeding the waiting period or the possibility of treatment outside the public network at home or abroad if the so-called reasonable waiting period is exceeded. The association of chronic patients in the establishment called on the State Council to support the veto because they felt it was not consistent with patients. Patients insist on the Institute of the Ombudsman, as is known in modern European countries. Patients want to be present in all bodies where health services are decided, which of course have financial implications, both in the Health Council, the Committees for the Classification of Medicines, the Assembly of Health Insurance Institutions. They said, "Nothing about us without us." In the view of the Consumers' Union, the Patient Rights Act should contain all the rights that patients have, both in general and the rights of patients who are protected by health. The regulation of all rights in one place would be more transparent and more useful. In doing so, the law would also follow its purpose to settle in one place all the rights that concern us. Patients' rights representatives should be employed full-time, as this is the only way to carry out their tasks in a qualitative manner. The regulation of the system of representatives in the manner that they carry out matters only contractually does not imply that there would be more to this law than just form. The activities of non-governmental organisations in the field of patient rights promotion should be systematically regulated and these rights exercised. I believe that the law should provide the user of health services with the possibility of obtaining independent information and advice before they turn to the so-called representative of the patient's rights, as there would have been no error in this process if there had been any prior education of misunderstandings. The experience in other areas shows that it is the system for advising and informing service users that is largely burdensome with the appeal procedures. Individuals often need only more detailed information and clarification of their rights. The field of counselling could be systematically regulated in this law in a way that would be more independent of the healthcare system and the representatives of the patient's rights. I believe that this type of activity would be easily carried out by non-governmental organisations which would, of course, demonstrate the necessary references, experience and human resources for this. My assessment is that the law is written more than a regulation to regulate administrative rights within individual health institutions: procurement, waiting books, appeals procedures, views on documentation. They're talking less about patients' rights in the healthcare system. The assessment is that there is no need for a large commission at national level, since matters could be resolved at regional level on the so-called mediation council. In the composition of this 76-member commission, there will be only 25 patient representatives, although this law is intended for them, 42 of them will be performers, of which 37 will be doctors. The term "health treatment" or "care" is incoherently mixed in the law. As the most appropriate term is "medical care" and so on, which of course means much less than "health care", "health care or other services". This, among other things, has a profound effect on the writing of the law by doctors. We are, of course, prepared to make specific comments on the twenty-three articles, which should be supplemented or amended. All these comments, which I have mentioned, have been tabled in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of concrete amendments which have not been voted on. Finally, let me conclude that the Law on Patient Rights has been made according to the measure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health and will serve them more. Unfortunately, patients will have to exercise their rights by regular judicial procedures. I therefore appeal to all of you, honourable Members and Members, to support the veto of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Health as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Ljub Germić, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. At its 26th regular meeting, on 16 January 2008, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia that, pursuant to Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly should decide again on the Law on Patient Rights adopted by the National Assembly at its 34th regular meeting on 19 December 2007. We have received the materials of the Legal and Legislative Services and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Mr. Peter Požun, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia's request for re-decision on the law, was explained in the introduction. The National Council notes that the adopted law did not take into account the comments made by interested associations of patients by healthcare users in the process of drafting the law. The comments were forwarded to members of the National Assembly who were not taken into account in the adoption process. The law adopted thus does not regulate the protection of patients' rights, as these rights have remained scattered in a number of laws, which means that the patient will in fact not be able to exercise his rights in the way that was meant in the objectives of the proposed law. The State Council does not support the law, even because it does not impose sanctions and penalties for non-compliance. The opinion of the Government was presented by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Darko Žiberna. He pointed out that most of the comments made by the interested public were taken into account by the applicant in the legislative procedure with the amendment tabled. The procedure for the first examination of the infringement of patient rights before the competent health service provider was complemented accordingly in order to establish at least minimum procedural rules ensuring fair treatment. The procedure before the Commission, which will deal with other requirements, has also been properly upgraded and supplemented to deal with the patient's rights, in which the General Administrative Procedure Act will be subsidiaryly applied. The Law on Patients' Rights provides for a range of rights of users of health services, so according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is an important novelty in Slovenia and a great gain for patients. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the fact that the comments of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia dealt in one part with the way in which the draft law was drafted, and in the other part to the issue of substantive nature related to the assessment of appropriateness and legal arrangements, which went beyond the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service. While the majority of the members of the Health Committee agreed that Slovenia urgently needed such a law, the content of the law itself was not fully harmonised, professionally processed and implemented, which could cause many problems in the implementation. The members of the Committee then voted and adopted the following decision: "The Health Committee shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to adopt the Patients' Rights Act." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the law for further explanation. Please, Mr. Žiberna, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members and others here present, a nice greeting. Allow me to say that at this time, when I may say something about this law, I would not repeat the things and arguments that I have before you here in the past and also on the committee to say how the law was formed, how we coordinated with a number of stakeholders in this law, how we cannot take 100% of everyone into account, perhaps 90% of us can take into account how we also obtained a positive opinion of lawyers on the law that you have before us, that it is legally appropriate. I will not repeat, as those who continue to say that dialogue is one that speaks, the other that does not want to hear, is said to be a half-deaf dialogue, that the law is inconsistent, that the law is inappropriate, that the costs are in the process of the parties, that there are no sanctions, that not all rights are in one place, that it does not allow counselling to patients or customers, and that the one that is still the bareest will serve the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as I have heard recently. It would be difficult to repeat arguments against such statements because, above all, it is a matter of value guidance, but not of arguments to return them, and when it is a matter of value direction, but with arguments of this direction you cannot reverse. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I would like at least this time to make an exception and not see any other benefit, but, above all, the benefits of patients who are quite many in this law. I can safely say with responsibility that the law can only benefit patients. However, no one in this country can be harmed by this law unless this harm is of a nature other than the benefit of patients' rights, such as the benefit of patients' benefits to patients. I would also like to say that, at the Ministry of Health, we have also prepared with great attention for those of our users of the law who do not know the legal matter, as you, Members of Parliament and Members know. And that is why we have prepared such a heartwarming brochure, which is very personal and understandable literally to anyone who wants to quickly get information on how this law as a tool can be used in everyday problems and problems that arise in contact with health care. Therefore, ladies and Members, I would like to ask you for an exception this time and ask that you give our patients only the opportunity to benefit, because the decision on the contrary means that you have decided from other objectives that you do not want to give any benefit from this law to our patients. I am also aware that marriage can be improved over time, but over time. For the law is the first time in the Slovenian environment, and those who wrote it had nothing to rely on, and any better thing than to date is the one that imposes some responsibility to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues as well as Mr State Secretary at the Ministry with a co-worker! I will begin with a sentence which also led within the Council of Europe. This is a bet I've heard today from a gentleman from the State Council: "Nothing about us without us." Unfortunately, respected colleagues and colleagues, this sentence was not taken into account when preparing the Patients' Rights Act. That is also why we are re-declaring the law today. That's why he didn't end up vetoing the basic law. Otherwise, the Law on Patient Rights is accompanied by an interesting fate. If the content did not touch as important or sensitive an area as human health, it could be said at this point that everything is comical. Yeah, funny. But this comic, unfortunately, has turned into a tragedy, a respected colleague and colleague. And that is the situation, the hand on the heart, or the whole field of health, the health system, which belongs to Minister Kukoviceva's department. In this area, we can draw a parallel between all complications, thefts, irregularities, laws, and downtrodden decisions. When the situation becomes alarming, the Minister with a team of photographers shows up, goes to one of the health institutions, orders a rehabilitation project, and thus simply closes the matter in which, not to say, more than ten million euros were lost. This is the practice of this ministry. Lately, even the president of the government has been going on these trips with a team of photographers, journalists. When the Minister is called before the National Assembly, perhaps in front of the parental committee or the National Assembly, then the minister is simply not there. The Minister has no time to explain what is going on at the Ministry in the field of health policy in our country. The Minister's not with us today, either. I'm sorry. It wasn't at the meeting, at that session where the law that we're re-deciding today was being built up, built up. Those of us who have witnessed this event at the meeting of the parent working body know what is happening to health policy. At that time, even some good solutions under the basic law with amendments tabled by government coalition parties have changed. Turned into bad solutions. Minister, as I said before, there wasn't, either. And then the secretary calls a press conference. I read reports at the Slovenian Press Agency, in the newspapers. The minister says in this press conference, after a veto has been voted on the bill to count on reason in the National Assembly. In doing so, he says that he has no idea why the marriage has experienced such opposition. Even medical ethics experts have made it clear why marriage is bad, respected. Even medical ethics experts. And the minister says, when it was neither on the committee nor at the meeting of the National Assembly, that she does not know why such opposition to the law. And her excuses with time distress, if the law falls - please! The Minister says who will go to the debate if the law falls, while the law on mental health, the law on medicines, etc. are being prepared. But you know, the Law on Mental Health should have been passed long ago in the National Assembly, and it's not on the agenda today because it's still in preparation at the Ministry, since the beginning of the mandate, for three years. The drug law better not be, because it does not contribute to better treatment or treatment of people because it again introduces cheaper generic medicines. This is real, respected colleagues and colleagues. And when the Secretary of State mentioned this cute book - you know what's collected in this cute book? This cute book collects the rights of patients who already have them on the basis of all the laws that give them certain rights. But in this book, allow me to read to you, write, say, under number 3: "The right to choose a doctor and a health care provider freely." This is what patients have today, not on the basis of the Patient Rights Act. "The right to adequate, quality and safe care" - they also have this rule. In short, all together, respected colleagues and colleagues, is deception or sand in the eyes. In the Lipa Group, we will not give our vote to this law because it is simply too weak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jazbec has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware of the issue of patients' rights. This is a sensitive area that needs to be addressed with all its responsibility. This is an important law that introduces important innovations in the healthcare system, where it newizes the patient primarily as a person and protects his constitutionally and legally defined and protected rights in the field of healthcare. The law fulfils an important role in the protection and exercise of patients' rights. Vet voters in the State Council pointed out that the law did not take into account the comments made by interested associations of patients in the process of drafting the laws, that the proposed law did not give civil society the opportunity not to conduct the public debate in the usual way. In doing so, it should be noted that the drafter of the law has, in the course of his preparation, coordinated in writing with the Office of the Ombudsman. It should also be pointed out that they participated in the harmonisation of the law and their comments are taken into account: Information Commissioner, Commission for Medical Ethics, Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, Forum for Children's Rights in Hospital, Union of Consumers of Slovenia, Coalition NBO for Patients' Rights. 19 companies are included: Europa Donna - Slovenian Association for the Fight against Breast Cancer, Association of Cancer Patients of Slovenia, Association of Patients with Lymphoma and Leukemia, Association of Nurses, Granny and Medical Technicians of Ljubljana. With regard to the allegations that there was no public debate, it is important to stress that this has been going on for a long time. The law was first published on the Ministry of Health’s website for one month. The draft law was sent to the public concerned and to certain public authorities. The law was publicly presented at several round tables where solutions were discussed. In the National Assembly, the proposal for a law regulating patients' rights was thoroughly recast in the discussion at the home labour body, taking into account the comments made by the public concerned. The latter proves quite the contrary, as the opposition representatives and representatives of the interested public have said, and we have achieved broad legitimacy by taking into account a number of sets of comments. An important novelty of the law is the establishment of an institution for the benefit of the patient's rights, which will assist patients who are usually a weaker party in the appeal process. This also allows for the fullest possible quality and effective realization of their rights. The Institute of Patient Rights is placed in law within the framework of the right to free assistance in the exercise of the patient's rights, so that the work of a patient's representative is free of charge, which is not subject to existing regulation. It should be noted, however, that if the law is not confirmed in re-decision, patients will be deprived of health rights. Reasons and where to turn, in this case patients will have to be explained by those who voted in favour of a re-decision request in the State Council, as well as those who do not support the law. Representatives will be selected on the basis of an invitation to tender from independent candidates who will have adequate knowledge and years of experience in this field, as well as reputation and respect in their environment. After the law has been enacted, representatives will initially operate at their headquarters in the area of district health care institutions. After establishing the provinces, the representatives will operate under the auspices of the provinces. The law also introduces a provision that the Ombudsman will have one of the deputies in charge of protecting patients' rights vis-à-vis state authorities, the authorities of self-government local communities and the holders of public powers. It is important to note and point out that the law contains a catalogue of patients' rights, covering 14 rights, which means that it provides a system-wide basis for adequate, quality and safe health care. The law introduces two-step dispute resolution in the context of procedural decision-making, in such a way that at least minimum procedural rules are laid down. On the basis of this and the responsibility to patients and the fact that the procedure for them through the representative will be free of charge, we will once again support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague. The Council of State has listened to the comments of civil society and has taken a decision which we are discussing today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in a limited way. Sadly, today it is not possible to listen to and change the law in any way in order to eliminate solutions or, rather, problems that are not good. We have only the opportunity to vote in favour of the bill or against the law as a whole. This raises the question of what is better or worse for a weaker article, as has already been said today, in terms of the operator’s and the patient’s relationship. Its purpose is the Law on the Rights of the Patient. So it's for the patients. Many comments were made at first reading. A large number of amendments were also tabled in the second reading. During the first and second readings, even the Ministry of Health spoke for a month to prepare amendments that corrected the mistakes that our Legal and Legislative Service had pointed out. The coalition has also incorporated these amendments into the marriage. Unfortunately, however, there was no obedience to the opposition's amendments, which were largely based on civil society's comments. Comments remain valid today and have led the Council of State in its decision. The Society of Nurses, Grandmothers and Medical Technicians Ljubljana has adopted the Law on Patient Rights as an inappropriate, non-life, too long and materially poor need correction. Many of those who made comments have already been mentioned by the representative of the Council of State. However, it is still a fresh memory from the second reading of the bill, when a number of inappropriate and unnecessary assessments have been made regarding the association of chronic patients in the establishment. Their most important requirement is the establishment of an institution of the Ombudsman. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also drew attention to the contentious composition of the Commission, which is supposed to be 76 members or members, with only 25 patient representatives and an excessive number of doctors, almost 50%. As I said at the meeting of the home working body, the role of the State Council is important for me and, of course, for my colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democrats Group. We are aware that all the wisdom in adopting legislation is not contained in the ministries, the government and the National Assembly. It would be right that the sum is also included in the State Council. Today, therefore, we have the opportunity to reject bad law and to clear the way for a new, better quality, which will be the fruit of knowledge and knowledge of the situation of both health service providers and, in our opinion, of the users of these services. Let us listen to civil society, listen to those who have experience with the rights of patients and, above all, their exercise. Let us avoid a referendum that, if it happens, will for some time prevent the preparation of more appropriate solutions. And since the Secretary of State has started his performance with this booklet, which they have issued in support of the Patients' Rights Act, let me say that even the answers that have been transmitted must be realistic today, without this law. On the question of whether medical personnel will take into account the order of arrival in the waiting room and whether my doctor will treat me the same, the answer is "knowledge". But this "scientific" answer must be enforceable today in our health care. Is there any chance that the child's hospitalization would be present all the time? That's possible now, too. Can I freely choose at which hospital or other health institution will I receive treatment and which doctor will treat me? The answer is "sede" again. It is therefore a promotion of a law that has not yet been adopted. This is, I would say, a kind of inappropriately spent money, because if these funds were to be put into the presentation earlier and in agreement on what kind of law we want, success would certainly be better and today we would not vote again on this law and not talk about the veto of the State Council. And so I can say that it's like if you decide to buy a car, and all you get from this car is the instructions for use, and the car is nowhere to be found. So, we, too, in the Social Democrats Group this time, for the fourth time in this Chamber of the National Assembly, will not support the Patients' Rights Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again! In the House of Members, we understand the State Council's proposal to veto the proposed law as another opportunity to consider the solutions that this law brings. In doing so, we do not agree with the Government's view that the law is well-prepared, so we will not support the law today in the LDS. In the LDS, we are convinced that regulating the rights of the patient requires a clear and uniform legal regime that will not cause confusion in patients and the application of different procedures in relation to different legal provisions. The purpose of the law should, in all respects, allow for equal, adequate, quality and safe health care, and therefore the full scope of the patient's rights should be regulated in the basic law. The current proposal regulates certain rights, the way they are enforced in other laws. It's health insurance rights. This was our basic comment in the first reading of the law. In the second reading, the law has undergone a very radical change, as we have reformulated almost all the articles of the law, but it has not undergone a conceptual change at the points at which we have been alerting the parliamentary club since the beginning, and at the same time some provisions, which the proponents have not been able to explain precisely, have changed, at the same time in our opinion, even worse solutions. In doing so, we have warned from the very beginning that a single document truly regulates the overall regulation of patient rights. The current regime, in our view, is two-tier, as we can expect complaints of proceedings after this and under other laws. I would also like to touch here, on behalf of the Member Club, the comments of this brochure, which has the title What the Law on Patient Rights Brings You. Of course, as soon as we open the front page, we have the saying, "Do we have our patients' rights? I'm sure! What are they like - we will try to answer this question in the brochure." Of course, it is not possible to assert this, for this brochure does not respond to the rights that patients already have, nor does it in any way respond to the rights that we get only through the Patient Rights Act. And, of course, he's also misleading the last page, the organogram, which is the picture in which the applicant tries to inform about the procedure in case of a violation of the patient's rights. This is a case of a violation of the patient's rights under the Patients' Rights Act. Of course, if the rights of health insurance are violated, the procedure is significantly different. At the same time, it must be said that the ministry's efforts with this booklet must be commended, but of course we agree with those who say that so much effort should be made in the essential earlier phase of the adoption of this law. So, if we continue with the warnings we sent to the proposer at the parliamentary club, the warnings went according to the complaint procedures and given their rationalisation and simplification. In our view, it is still an overly bureaucratic complaint procedure; the Commission is too large; we should look to a smaller and more independent commission. We have proposed the creation of a number of smaller commission, which would provide medical professionals with an independent professional hearing. That ambitions are much broader than this law itself shows, it also shows the possibility of regulating waiting lists, because in our view it is essential to regulate waiting lists even more than is the right to respect the patient's time. In our view, however, the changes that have been negatively reflected in the second reading are mainly the deletion of the terms "safety of closures" and "treatment" which have been deleted with the amendment on the home working body. This also excludes the term 'health error' which has been included in the broader concept of'security complication' and instead of 'investigation of an alleged medical complication', 'internal control' is introduced which should have been carried out without this law. Of course, we ask ourselves why the applicant has outlined these provisions and also deletes his expressed efforts to achieve as much patient safety as possible at the time of receiving medical care. This is also contrary to the Luxembourg Declaration on Patient Safety. At the same time, we draw attention to the provisions that have given the representative the role of non-professional conduct of his activity, despite the fact that his powers are very broad in the law. At the same time, we are not satisfied with the attitude towards the very process of enacting this law, and because of that law we will not support it at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! The fast progress of medical science and the better economic situation in the country also provide patients with greater opportunities for treatment and recovery. Patients have the right to receive the best and most recent diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and the State is obliged to take care of the conditions for achieving this objective in the context of the possibility. However, practice has shown all too often that more than the content of individual rights is a weak and ineffective way of achieving them. We are aware that the patient in his or her illness and sensitivity to the entire medical staff and the system is in a subordinate position, and, in particular, with regard to the complaint routes, is left to individual health care institutions and their management teams. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the new Law on Patient Rights, which we have not yet had since it regulates the area of common rights that go to every healthcare user and achieves the goals set by the Government. In view of the fact that the law will contribute in the long term to a reduction in the number of complaints and thus reduce costs, clearly identify patients' rights, regulate the effective resolution of infringements and define the role and importance of representatives and contribute to the peaceful resolution of disputes, thus reducing the pressure on the courts. We are aware, however, that the law is not ideal and that only practice will show what needs to be changed and complemented. However, the law is available to long-term patients, so the dissatisfaction shown by the opposition and NGOs, and consequently the veto voted in the State Council, otherwise legitimate but unjustifiable. The reasons cited by the Council of State for the request that the National Assembly re-decision on the law may be divided into three sets: that the applicant does not give civil society, the Ombudsman and individual patients' societies the opportunity not to regulate the protection of patients' rights, that these rights remain dispersed in a number of laws and that the law does not provide for sanctions and penalties for non-compliance. We believe that such reasons stem from the lack of knowledge of matter and that we can reject them with arguments. For the first time, that she participated in the drafting of the law and that the proposals were largely taken into account by the interested public and the Ombudsman, experts from various fields also participated. Another time. That the law regulates, as already stated, the rights of patients who go to every healthcare user, while the Ombudsman also advises patients in the field of health insurance. The patient will thus be informed of all his or her rights, which he or she may exercise either under this law or under the Health and Health Insurance Act. The requirement that the representative be outside the healthcare system and financially independent from the Ministry is harmonised. The representative shall be appointed by the representative authority of the province on the basis of a public call to ensure independence and impartiality. It has also been coordinated with regard to the appointment of a commission, with as many as 25 members appointed from non-governmental organisations and one representative from non-governmental organisations always participating in the hearing itself. And the third time. However, as regards sanctions and penalties for non-compliance, it is appropriate to state that the law stems from new solutions that stimulate the proper exercise of patient rights, with the provision for sanctioning the non-implementation of certain obligations of operators. In the New Slovenia Group, we will once again support the law on patient rights, as we believe it will contribute significantly to a more fair treatment of patients than equal entities in the exercise of rights. At the same time, it will commit operators to the best possible quality and responsible management of health services. We believe that those who oppose the law do not want patients well and with a variety of excuses hinder the implementation of the opportunities offered by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished representative of the Council of State, distinguished colleague and colleague. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported in the re-voting of the Patients' Rights Act because we believe that the law is necessary and must be enforced as soon as possible. The practice will show where it needs to be complemented and how it can be improved. While the Health Act lays down certain rights for patients, it has been shown in practice that the content of individual rights has not been sufficiently defined and that there is also an inadequate way of exercising these rights. We therefore need a transparent catalogue of patient rights where the content of each right will be further defined. We need regulated, uniform, transparent and effective appeal procedures in the event of a violation of rights. The new law brings these very solutions. Some new rights have been added: the right to respect the patient's time, the right to prevent and alleviate suffering, the right to preventive services and so on. The right to adequate, safe and quality health care, as regulated in Articles 11 to 13, in our opinion, represents a qualitative progress in determining the level of health care, while at the same time linking the needs of patients with the ability of healthcare providers and with the ability of the health system in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that access to adequate, safe and quality healthcare is one of the basic and basic patient rights. In addition, in the Slovenian People's Party, it has been pointed out for a long time that waiting periods in the healthcare sector are one of the most pressing problems affecting the Slovenian patient, so it is necessary to resolve access to health services and waiting periods for health services. This is an important right of the patient, i.e. to respect the patient's time. It is the obligation of the health service provider to provide for the shortest possible waiting time and waiting period. This obligation is not met many times. It is also important to explain the doctor’s duty, to inform the patient of the planned diagnostic procedures and the proposed treatment. The patient must be informed of the condition and potential of treatment so that he can freely decide on a medical procedure. Therefore, we believe that the explanation must be such that every patient understands it, taking into account its health and mental state. The decision on personal health and life is a fundamental personal right of an individual. We therefore believe that it is necessary to support the law because it wants to contribute to the long-term reduction of complaints by patients and related costs and because it is aimed at preventing infringements or disputes between patients and healthcare professionals. Last but not least, to regulate the procedural aspect of the protection of patient rights and to establish an effective solution to infringements or disputes in the event that they occur. Only a regulated complaint handling system means the protection of the patient on the one hand and the protection of the doctor and his colleagues on the other. There is a need to make sure that people believe or trust in the fair treatment of complaints in health care as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group, we really expected the Council of State to vote veto and to demand a re-examination in the National Assembly on the adoption of the Patient Rights Act. We will support their proposal, as we have warned from the very beginning of this law that it does not take into account the interests of the patients and is not designed in such a way as to ensure that their rights are exercised in an appropriate, effective, uncomplicated and accessible manner. In the beginning and consideration of the law, the interests of civil society and non-governmental organisations, represented by the various societies where patients unite, were neglected and ignored. Nothing, but at the very least the law that should define their rights and enforceability should be adopted without a majority consensus and agreement with them and with good knowledge and insight, I can say, a law that should be written for them and for their own good. And you've gone around them. Many of them, particularly some members of the ruling coalition, have been talked about and condemned for their criticism and ignorance. This has been unacceptable, undemocratic and degrading to the whole sphere of NGOs, and this is not a good road map for law enforcement in practice. Surely this brochure, which we have received today, will not fix it. True, you have tried, but I have to say that it is unusual, to say the least, to say the least; while in the entire stage of the preparation of the law and its treatment in some way there was no right place for the non-governmental sphere and civil society, today with this brochure, before the law was ever adopted, we receive a book on what this law brings. What if this law falls in Parliament today? Who's gonna be responsible for the cost and all that? It is a great duplicity that, in fact, in the previous stages of patients, patients of their society are ignored, the very last minute and the last second before adoption, the brochure that is supposed to fix this is actually coming out. I have to say, I don't agree with that. The problems have already arisen in the concept of the law, as we all expected, this is also discussed by the coalition contract, to obtain the Ombudsman in the form of a reputable, trustworthy personality. A solution with regional agents is good, but they should be linked to a central institution at national level, this is with the Ombudsman. However, the Commission will never be able to give these roles at the national level, which will number 75 members and the President, especially since it will in any event have a majority of the members of the Commission who are involved in health-related activities. Therefore, it can be made clear that, unfortunately, this law, the law on patient rights, has also been drafted by doctors and written primarily from their point of view and also from their own interests, unfortunately. We do not agree that only members in the field of law, economy and health can be members of the Commission, but not all other professions and orientations. It is also inappropriate for the appointment of members and presidents not to guarantee their independence, impartiality, as they are linked to the appointment by the Government, but not, for example, to the majority of the National Assembly proposed by the President of the State, which would ensure the independence and reputation of the Ombudsman's Institute. It also disturbs us that the entire Institute for the Protection of Patients' Rights is set up in non-professional activities, both by representatives at regional level and by the entire Commission. This clearly shows how much it is underestimated and somehow minimizes the problem of protecting patients' rights. The disadvantage of the law is also the accessibility to the exercise of rights before the State Commission. The means of initiating the procedure must be provided by the patient himself and will only be reimbursed if the complaint has been justified. Unfortunately, not all patients will be able to afford this cost, since the procedures are complex, difficult to understand, extremely detailed, which means that patients can only be applied with the help of lawyers. Therefore, the exercise of patients' rights is not equally accessible to all social groups. We will not support such a law in our parliamentary group, and such a law will not be able to live in practice. Especially since the Minister has already announced that it will take as many as 10 sub-legislative acts, as she said at the press conference, to implement it. And this will continue to complicate the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u102	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. We also expected the veto of the State Council. The Law on Patient Rights is a fog in which the content of the 18 points of the coalition contract, which discusses how patients' rights should be exercised more quickly, is on ice all three years of the coalition's operation. The Law on Patient Rights is a fog in which a number of unresolved health problems are hidden, on the side of health policy and on the side of the functioning of health organisations. The Law on Patient Rights is much like talking about welfare when you adopt a law that makes new people miserable. It is not true that this law will allow for a better exercise of rights. No, no, no. Patients will only be better aware of them and will be able to embark on the painful path of seeking justice, which will ultimately result in their harm - in any case. The implementation of the Law on Patient Rights is not rushed; it is in a hurry to ensure rights. In order to do so, however, nothing special happened except that waiting periods for disproportionately high additional resources have been reduced. Where there was no extra money, waiting periods remained as long or as long. We have tabled a series of amendments to the bill, which have all fallen in line. The main word was those who knew nothing or very little about things, but who followed the directions of their bosses in a responsible manner. The light of hope was given by an article referring to the Ombudsman, but following recent consultations with the Ombudsman, it turned out that she did not have the conditions to receive this assistant at all, that the assistants were paid less, that the guardian herself was degraded in this regard and did not have the will to do anything that was inappropriate, in the context of the fact that she did not know how many and what helpers she should get to carry out her mission. The massive appeal commission, the appointment of representatives, all in the Minister's discretion, together with the award of only these, go beyond the interests of the insured and to their detriment. The patient community was not considered. Indeed, the proposalr consulted many, but the result was that he pushed his solutions forward, even when the sea had arguments for better solutions, but it was necessary to persist stubbornly in the solutions of the applicants whose accompanying staff had the following comment on the colleague’s question, what does this article mean about the Ombudsman’s assistant for patients’ rights. Nothing - was the answer. It's written down so much that Desus will be quiet. That was their coordination. And of course, patients have waited a long time for their rights, not the law about them. Because the law is bad and because, apart from this law, nothing has happened so far, which would allow a more consistent, fairer and timely exercise of the rights of the patient, none of our parliamentary groups should support this law and I am counting on it not to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u104	Good day to you all! My predecessor said that so far nothing has happened in the field of patient rights. And that's what it is. This is the first law that deals with this subject, and because it is the first, it is not good. The law has a number of mistakes, shortcomings, weaknesses, and even a number of things that we could have fixed in this regard right now, but we have not done so. The reasons are different. Some so-called professional reasons, a large majority of them are political reasons. However, the law in itself does put a burden on all of us in certain segments. It burdens to identify a problem that weighs patients. It doesn't specify certain segments where everything is somehow incomplete, somehow in the air, I'd kind of say "shampast". However, if we look at where the health problem is, we will know that the health issue is first of all elsewhere, not with the patient's rights: operating tables, procurement of operating tables, on the Oncology Institute, on Pediatrics, procurement of materials where terrible money flows, in waiting periods, on irrational spending of money - a variety of intermediaries supply materials to our health institutions and serve beautifully on it, there are the biggest problems. These problems should be solved rather than anything else. However, in the Law on Patient Rights, some want to solve everything, including this. That's just not going to work! Even in the law itself, there is a desire in the marriage proposal to get rid of everything in one piece and all at once, and that is why we come up with solutions that do not have enough tails and heads. There is a lot to prepare in this law, and there will be a lot to wait for us to see how the matter will be regulated and how it will run in practice, and then to do analysis and correct. After all, once again, it has been said that it is the first time we have had such a law under consideration. That's right. And it's the right thing to do! We have it a little too late, perhaps if this debate were some year earlier, we would have discussed it differently, more calmly and less politically. There are elections this year, and you just have to burn as much as you can. There's one more thing. I think that it is important that we have such a law, I think it is good that we try it in practice and in those mistakes that we will find, we introduce a law amending this law. This, of course, will only take place in the next term, but with the hope that we will again and again sit in this National Assembly, we will be able to do so. I think that it will be more important and more necessary to resolve certain segments, because, after all, neither side nor side is completely right. The mistakes are in marriage, the mistakes are in those who advocate marriage should fall. I think that, once again, at the very beginning of the Slovenian National Party, we have identified a whole range of inconsistencies that have not yet been corrected, but that we do not want to go into individual articles, because there are too many of them to be processed here, but I think it is necessary for us to adopt the law, process it, wait for it to happen in practice, and then recast it. The Slovenian national party is already preparing these changes, but this will only take place in the next term, after the 2008 elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the parliamentary positions of the Group. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE COOPERATION OF THE CONSUMPTION OF THE EXPENDITURE OF THE PRODUCTS, IN THE RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Zmaž Jelinčič Plmeniti. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Ljub Germić, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, co-workers. At its 26th meeting, on 16 January 2008, the Committee of the State of Slovenia on Health considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products submitted by the Group of Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption. Members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft law. They also adopted a series of opinions and letters from the domestic and foreign interested public. In the introduction, a representative of the proposed law took the main objectives or solutions to the draft law. Thus, the owners of the inn should decide on their own choice between a smoker’s or a non - smoker’s bar. He also made some exceptions that he was supposed to take into account in the bill, such as for gaming salons and theatres. In particular, the sale of tobacco products by persons under 15 years of age should be prohibited. A legal person may not and may not be liable if the guest or visitor, despite warnings, does not comply with the provisions of the applicable law. The bill itself proposes the introduction of a so-called tobacco euro aimed at preventing smoking among young people. The representative of the Government did not support the bill. In his view, in the proposal for a law, terminology is inconsistent with the terminology of the law in force, as well as with the amendments themselves, which are not in line with the basic objective of the law in force. In particular, he highlighted the ratio of harmful effects on health to economic effects or reduced transport in guest restaurants. It welcomes the introduction of the tobacco euro, but it may not be the most appropriate way and is too general. In addition, this material belongs to the work of the Ministry of Finance. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service could not be defined until some amendments to the bill were made, as this went beyond the powers and tasks of this service. However, individual comments were submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service to Article 1, Article 3, Article 4, Article 5 and Article 6 of the Law. According to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Health Committee, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act concerning the restriction of the use of tobacco products is not suitable for further consideration. In their explanations of vote, individual members of the committee have tried to draw attention to some of the facts which would suggest further refinement and analysis in the future, since the six-year period of validity of the law is not yet the period during which concrete results and effects could be obtained. The Health Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be adopted: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law concerning the restriction of the use of tobacco products is not suitable for further use." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Barovic's representative of the law's proposal for an introductory presentation of his position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. I don't know what else to say. Millions, millions and millions of words. For more than six months, the Constitutional Court has not been able to say whether or not the law is inconsistent with the Constitution. Because they don't care. I don't smoke any of you, but of all those who don't smoke, I don't force them to smoke. This country forces 100% of those who are, we are smokers that we are as in 1939 to 1945 - I'm talking about 1900. All we can do is hit ourselves instead of that Jewish star, the smoker, and they'll know who we are. The guests, the Guests' Association, even the respected Minister of Economy agreed to change the law, turned their backs on themselves. Last but not least, colleagues and colleagues, to us, personally, the Slovenian National Party, this is not the case. I've been smoking down 20 more. We are looking for equality and constitutional rights. We don't have smokers today, they don't have any rights. 0.0%. Non-smokers have 100% rights, and these are non-smokers who don't visit public institutions or restaurants. They don't even go to the bar. They insist. It's impossible to smoke. We're banning it. We have 0% rights and they have 100% rights, and this is in accordance with the Constitution and of course we all have the same rights. Yeah. One eats cabbage all his life, the other eats beef, and the other eats seged stew on average. That's right. I still argue that the law is unconstitutional because it violates rights and is stupid; stupid in the part where it prohibits a student or a student who is 16, 17 years old and goes to work to earn money for his studies, in a meeting or in a restaurant and cannot sell, not buy, sell! He can't sell cigarettes! I mean, hello! At the age of 16, students or students of the inn, commercial schools, go to practice. And now that he puts it on the counter, every three minutes when someone comes to buy a pack of cigarettes, they'll replace it. I mean, stupid things the whole world doesn't know. Austria doesn't know them. Look at that. Austria said no to non-Chinese law! Denmark is smart. The most developed country, the cleanest country; she said, it is not a problem for public institutions, okay, but for localities of 100 square meters down to decide for themselves. And look at the list of other countries! Don't tell me that the whole of Europe is going against the smoking law if the whole of Europe is changing this law. I mean, can we be a little human? I respect the law, and I will respect it. Except, once again, I publicly stress, in my office in the National Assembly and in the congregation, until I get a constitutional opinion - and the Constitutional Court is fucked - and I am sure that the law is unconstitutional. But who among you, colleagues and colleagues, has introduced a law to prevent asbestos poisoning? The cement workers? Workers underground, in a cave, in coal dust? Who? Nobody! You don't care! You don't care about tobacco law! I know why - because when you confess something, you get more smokers and, of course, more and more taxes. It's not fair. This law that we propose is fair. It gives the possibility to make a decision for individuals in restaurants below 100 square meters to say that I will have a smoker's bar, mark it, and pay the tobacco toll to help and prevent smoking to young people. And so young people smoke under my balcony, the elementary school is there, in the fifth grade smoking with great joy, precisely because of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Žiberna, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u110	Mr President, honourable Members and other ladies and gentlemen! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products and has found the following. Members of the Slovenian National Party tabled a proposal for a new law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products in the National Assembly. The proposed amendments to the existing law indicate the possibility for smaller restaurants that do not serve food to determine whether they will be smokers or non-smokers to allow smoking in casinos, playgrounds and art projects. We do not agree with any of the proposed amendments, as the law would no longer meet the basic objective of equal protection for all persons and employees in all occupational groups against exposure to tobacco smoke to health. There is no safe limit on exposure to tobacco smoke. Exposure to tobacco smoke from the environment or passive smoking causes premature morbidity and mortality due to various types of cancer, heart disease, blood vessels, and other diseases. Above all, bars and nightclubs are the places where high levels of exposure to tobacco smoke occur. The maximum mean value of nicotine in the air in bars may be increased even 26 times from the mean level of nicotine in the offices. The proposal of the Slovenian National Party to resolve the pollution of tobacco-smoker spaces by ventilation is unacceptable, as independent scientific research has found that the complete removal of tobacco smoke by ventilation is not possible. Experts from different professions are united that the only effective way to eliminate health risks associated with exposure to tobacco smoke from the environment is to prohibit smoking in all closed public and workplaces. In Europe, the ban on smoking in closed workplaces and public spaces, including restaurants and bars, was introduced by many countries or parts of countries, Ireland was the first on 29 March 2004, followed by: Scotland, Great Britain, Wales, Northern Ireland, Italy, Malta, Sweden, Finland, Estonia, Iceland, Latvia, with some exceptions also Norway and Belgium, and if we are not mistaken, Turkey is also introducing this issue. Since the beginning of 2008, the ban has also been imposed in France and in July 2006 it will be in the Netherlands. The ban on smoking, including in restaurants and bars, is already in force in 8 federal countries in Germany, including Berlin. The most stringent measures are introduced in Bavaria, where no smoking facilities will be allowed. With 3.1. 2008 The ban on smoking in all closed public spaces, including restaurants and bars, was also adopted in Turkey without the possibility of smoking, and the ban is in force in 2009. None of these countries plan to withdraw the measure. The SNS Group emphasises as one of the reasons for the change in the law of the fall in traffic in guest houses, particularly in smaller ones. The verifiable and objective data from countries that have already put in place a complete smoking ban show that such a measure does not have an important impact on the guest sector in the long term. Both abroad and in Slovenia, a total smoking ban measure enjoys the full support of the vast majority of the public. Otherwise, in Slovenia, the law was too short a time to make available all the data necessary for an objective evaluation of its consequences. It is clear from the publicly available official information available to us at the Ministry of Health that after the law has been enacted between guest establishments in general, such as those offering only drinks, there is no greater turnover. On the contrary, the traffic of restaurants, restaurants, restaurants, restaurants, supermarkets, pastries and cafes even increased compared to last year. The proposal for the introduction of the tobacco euro is acceptable only in combination with the measures already taken to prohibit smoking in all public closed and workplaces, which are proven to be more cost-effective. At one point, it is a matter which does not belong to this law, but to the law in the field of work of the Ministry of Finance. We are also opposed to the suggestion that we could enjoy a drink in the smoking rooms, since smoking would no longer be intended only for smoking, but would take longer than smokers, non-smokers. I'm honored to shorten it. In fact, rights are limited to the rights of others. It is also the duty of society to protect and preserve the health of all for a long time, and we are aware that the right to smoke is a right that has very serious, very long-term and even fatal consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u112	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The key objective of amending and supplementing the Tobacco Product Restriction Act adopted by this National Assembly in mid-last year was the full protection of employees and all professional groups against exposure to tobacco smoke. Moreover, this law has also restricted access to tobacco products for minors, which must be a special priority for our society. Numerous expert international studies have shown more and more unequivocally that cigarette smoke is harmful, both for smokers and nonsmokers. They are also aware of this in many European countries, as in addition to Slovenia, there is a total ban on smoking in all public spaces in more than 13 countries in the European Union. Only in January this year did a similar law enter into force in three other European countries, and this trend will continue with the known data. Therefore, all the statements made by those who say that our law restricting the use of tobacco products is non-European and too restrictive, misleading. On the contrary, our law adopted last year is European comparable and such solutions are becoming already a mandatory standard for ever more countries outside Europe. The proposal to amend the existing law tabled by the SNS Group is certainly a step backwards in restricting the application of tobacco law. Such solutions, contained in this law, no longer provide protection for employees and young people from cigarette smoke and provide an ever-increasing potential for abuse. The grounds for eligibility of the amendments cited by the proposers of this Act in their explanations shall be unfounded and denied by the professional public and the medical profession. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the existing law we passed last year on the restriction of the use of tobacco products is appropriate and will contribute to reducing the consumption of cigarette and other tobacco products, and in particular will provide our minors with greater security against exposure to tobacco smoke. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we will not support the proposal to amend this law, but we will support the decision of the home working body, and this is that the amendment of the law restricting the use of tobacco products is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Good day again. The law that was adopted last year certainly went a long way toward the everyday life of each individual. It changes entrenched habits and gives the feeling that the smokers have been wronged. At the same time, let us follow the satisfaction of all those who have been disturbed by tobacco smoke in closed areas. The most loud and decisive response was made by some owners of inn restaurants, who are expecting changes in legislation in order to enable them to survive - in terms of business. At this point, we are in a situation where, on the one hand, advocates of the existing law firmly insist that they are not prepared to consider whether it might be worth some effort to examine the requirements and proposals of all those who advocate certain pardons of the provisions of the law. On the other hand, all those who propose changes are, according to our own, too extensive in certain parts. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the time since the introduction of the current law is too short to be able to assess its implementation in a qualitative and comprehensive manner. However, there is a need for some changes already today. Let me mention again the proposal for a so-called self-service arrangement in smoking rooms. It is not logical that smokers should not have a drink besides smoking, such as coffee, which I am stressing, alone, serving without waiters from machines or something else. This will not endanger the health of employees in the restaurant, as they will not be exposed to cigarette smoke. This is just one of the proposals that is worth considering. And our proposal is that the competent ministry seriously examine and respond to all comments and proposals. However, we are not joining the Social Democrats Group on the so-called smoker euro, which would further burden consumers. The amount of excise duties on tobacco products so far could eliminate the causes of the introduction of the smoking euro at the time of deliberate consumption. The current regime, when smokers are forced to smoke in front of inn restaurants and, worse still, in front of individual institutions, is at first sight inappropriate. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that half a year of implementation of the law is not enough to take root in its provisions. However, it has been a half year since we need to analyse the effects and consider improvements. And, of course, we expect that. Let me say that Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not object to the proposal for a decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u116	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We are back under the Tobacco Product Restriction Act. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the policy of this wide range of restrictions on smoking in our country is not exactly what citizens and citizens want. At the same time, it is not guaranteed to provide an environment without tobacco smoke. Although we supported the proposaler of previous changes in the law, in some ways he wanted to separate smokers from non-smokers with a mild variant. And if there was no diversion of this law, it would probably be what is most exemplary for Europe or even for America, which has brought us these harsh methods of restricting the use of tobacco products. Unfortunately, that's not how it happened. Inspections in previous violations, in the case of previous non-compliance with the law, did not respond, and the law was then declared as having no effect. I'll tell you, if the inspections were to do so today, they could declare him a law that doesn't work. But it's not like that. Obviously, abandoning those acts was just an excuse to be able to prepare such a law that expels smokers from society, drives them out, actually drives them all the way to the edge of life. And no matter what you say or how often we hear that 6 months is not enough, but in addition to these positive consequences that you like to accentuate, there are also negative consequences. I will not list all of this, but it seems to me that the law introduced by the Slovenian National Party would apply, support, develop, supplement, and limit and not agree to these half-truths and falsified truths, as we have heard from the Secretary of State. In fact, from all that we've been listening to here, it looks like there's someone behind all this, just like you like to say about us, who want people to live in some normal co-existence to support us, I don't know what kind of guest and tobacco lobby. I guarantee you that the biggest lobbyist, the biggest convincer for his benefit is the pharmaceutical lobby, not only in this country, but in Europe, but also in the world. I could count a lot of things. In the Group of the Liberal Democracy, we will vote against the proposal for a decision of the parent working body. Of course, this does not mean that any of the Members will not vote otherwise. Let me finish, as usual, when I talk about tobacco law: "Ceterum censeo legem nicotine ese derendam".
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u117	Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products prepared by a group of Members is not in line with the basic objective of the current law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. The aim of the recently adopted law is not to prevent smokers from smoking, but to ensure that a country that places health among the priorities of its health policy, with appropriate legislation, prevents people from getting sick and dying too soon due to secondhand smoking, both non-smokers and smokers. The ban on smoking in all public and workplaces is a European perspective and Slovenia was among the first countries in Europe, which, first by restricting the use of tobacco and then by further banning smoking in public spaces, was a well-known and proven fact about the consequences of smoking on public health. The new amendment to the law before us wants to put the matter on the table. Not only does the applicant want to introduce the possibility of deciding whether the owners of the premises will have smoke or non-smoking premises, the applicant even lowers the age limit over which the purchase of tobacco products would be allowed. Discussions about the free choice of individuals and how children will get to tobacco, even if they cannot buy it themselves, cannot convince us. Of course, there is no end to such debates and we will probably talk about it again. Everyone has the right to free choice of opinion and expression. But we can ask the question differently. How many people are potentially less at risk because of the ban on smoking in closed rooms and how much cleaner and harmless air is breathing? Non-smokers have their rights, too. It is the duty of all of us to ensure a healthy environment, and the right of each individual is the right to a healthy environment and a healthy way of life. In any case, it must be acknowledged that smoking is harmful both to smokers and to those exposed to cigarette smoke. That is why the law we have adopted that prohibits smoking in public spaces is good, according to the Group of Members, and we do not want to change it after only a good half-year in force, so we will not support the proposed novel. However, we must recognise that the proposed tobacco euro is interesting and worth exploring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the time has passed is absolutely short so that they can objectively assess the negative consequences of the last amendment of the Tobacco Product Restriction Act. In particular, as regards the impact on the guest sector, the subjective assessments referred to by the applicant can also be given in a positive sense. With great support, the public has adopted a total ban on smoking in all closed public and workplaces. It is also necessary to know that the arguments of the narrow lobby on the reduction of transport seem irrelevant, given the seriousness of the harmful effects of tobacco smoke on health and, last but not least, the economic consequences of this. The proposal for amendments to the law proposes that owners of certain establishments decide for themselves whether their place will be smokers or non-smokers. It's like setting a speed limit of 100 kilometers per hour and allowing faster cars to decide for themselves how to drive. The speed limit has its purpose and is also fully prohibited from smoking in public spaces. We know that workers in the catering sector are exposed to much higher concentrations of substances that cause premature disease and mortality due to various types of cancer, heart disease and blood vessels and other diseases due to tobacco smoke. Tell us who today has the opportunity to choose a job even after it will be a smoking or non-smoking place! The proposer adds a warning from gaming circles that players who are also smokers leave the casino prematurely, as they usually do not return from a cigarette break to the casino premises. That's better. All we can conclude from this is that this law has a positive impact on the field of another addiction. The main objective of the tobacco use restriction law was the full protection of employees from all occupational groups against exposure to tobacco smoke. The proposer by setting an exception this objective is somehow negating. In order to achieve equivalent protection for workers against tobacco smoke in all jobs, the proposed mitigation of current legislation is not acceptable. The proposal that the contamination of tobacco-smoker spaces be addressed by ventilation is also unacceptable. Independent scientific research has shown that the complete removal of tobacco smoke by ventilation is not possible. Experts from different professions therefore consider that the only effective way to address health risks associated with exposure to tobacco smoke from the environment is to prohibit smoking in all closed public and workplaces. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the opinion of the Home Committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u122	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we have already warned, when adopting the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, that Slovenia is enacting anti-smoking legislation in European countries, one of the most restrictive and strict laws. In doing so, we agreed that all workers, including those in the restaurant, should be entitled to the right of a healthy environment, both for them and for other persons, with the smoke of unpolluted air. At the same time, we warned that although the law fully protected the non-smokers and, at the same time, restricted the smokers so much, and so demeaningly expelled the smokers to the open, to the road and to the streets, although without fear of non-smokers, it could also allow for a more suitable smoking situation, so that the non-smokers would not in any way be at risk. Why should smokers not smoke in separate, well - ventilated areas inside the premises if they are allowed by their employers or, for example, by their hosts? The solutions that proposed the implementation of the smoking chambers, some quarantines and cages were inappropriate, humiliating and non-lifelike and therefore have not been brought to life in practice. There are also ridiculous and non-life solutions regarding the restriction of smoking in theatre and other scenes, as they limit artistic freedom of expression and the right to the protection of copyrights, where smoking is an integral part of the script, of the play and is necessary for authentic performance. The performances have repeatedly made fun of these solutions, as well as the public calls of people in the theatre sphere that this is not a good and real solution. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to amend the law and yet, when following the basic purpose of easing where it would bring no harm to anyone - I stress that in fact we will always and fully protect non-smokers, but some more appropriate and life-saving solutions could also be found for smokers and we would be happy to support them. In doing so, let me draw attention to some of the open questions raised in this regard. The country has done the most to promote smoking, stigmatize smokers, and significantly less aggressive and restrictively resort to other, perhaps even more socially harmful forms of addiction, such as alcoholism, social consequences and the impact on safety in transport, and unhealthy diets, which are freely advertised, and tablets and similar matters. Smokers exposed to great pressure, stress and bullying at work due to the sudden ban on smoking have been almost without the help of the company, insufficient prevention, aid in decommissioning and co-financing of devices, insufficient preventive programmes, and self-help groups in health care homes are dripping in the sea. Smoking is difficult to remove and only 5% of those who choose to do so last more than 3 years. But we left them some expensive tools, they can buy for expensive money various tablets, patches, and chewable gum. And there's something else I'd like to point out. In front of the locals, there were massive gas heaters for cold smokers in the outdoors. Did anyone wonder how highly energy - efficient they are and what their operation means in terms of pollution in such highly polluted cities?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we already have an important constitutional and judicial precedent on smoking. In 2002, the Constitutional Court in the case of Tobacco d.o.o. has decided that the prohibition on advertising tobacco products is not contrary to the Constitution. Two conclusions are particularly important for freedom of smoking: for the first time, smoking has a direct impact on human health, the state has the right and duty to protect human health, so it can reach out to freedom of advertising. Secondly, the advertising of tobacco products has a positive impact on the prevalence of smoking, and therefore the prohibition of advertising of such measures is necessary for an effective fight against smoking. At its 29th regular meeting, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products, which entered into force last August. In addition to some other measures, the Novela has introduced, inter alia, a restrictive smoking ban in all closed public spaces, including all catering facilities. This time the novelty suggests that various negative effects have been demonstrated within a few months of the adoption of the anti-smoking measures. In particular, there is a strong decline in traffic in guest restaurants less than 100 square metres and in gaming salons. It therefore suggests that guests should be left to decide on the possibility of introducing non-smoking and non-smoking restaurants. In our DeSUS Group, we do not deny that there is a direct link between the ban on smoking in guest restaurants and the decline in traffic. However, we wonder whether the current regime is now unfair, whether it deviates from constitutional rules and principles, or does it unjustifiably cause harm to a particular group of small hosts? The legal prohibition of smoking as such is not constitutionally disputed. The complete ban on smoking was based on analyses that it is otherwise impossible to effectively protect non-smokers, certain public places and jobs from tobacco smoke. The right to a healthy environment and the right to health protection are fundamental rights that have priority over smoking, passion and addiction. Smoking-free smokers in certain public places are not placed in a constitutionally legally determined position, inequality. While non-smokers, in the event of total freedom of smoking, are a legally relevant group of people. The primary problem with the complete ban on smoking is not the deprivation of smokers, but the situation in which people are living with hospitality. In principle, property rights and the right to entrepreneurship also have no advantage over protecting the environment and health. Otherwise, it is appropriate to hear arguments that the absolute prohibition of smoking without exception is not absolutely necessary due to the effective and quality protection of the environment, health and rights of non-smokers. The positive effects of the current law will certainly not show up until a few years later when the Slovenian health system will already be able to produce data on the reduction of premature illness and mortality due to diseases associated with active and passive inhalation of tobacco smoke. Since we are convinced of such positive effects by DeSUS Members, we believe that it would be completely unreasonable and unreasonable to adopt a law allowing guests to decide for themselves whether they will have a smoker's or a non-smoker's place, since this would certainly constitute a significant step back to realizing and ensuring the right to a healthy living environment. Therefore, the DeSUS Members of the proposed amendment to the law will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you so much and welcome again! I think it's best at the end that we stop the sale of cigarettes. That would have been what would have really prevented smoking. Smoking will not be prevented otherwise. Smoking will begin and laws will be broken slowly. Everything else will start slowly. It is interesting to listen to representatives of the ministry when they say that Europe does not smoke purely. What happened? Recently, we saw the Germans on TV masseating to Poland, sitting in places where they can smoke. The reference also to the countries of the European Union where the absolute ban on smoking is complex and adapted. Here I have a pretty good record of everything in some country, and it's pointless to read. It is true in Turkey and Greece, however, they have banned it. Absolutely banned smoking, but in hospitals. Cigarette smoke, which is said to be so harmful to second-hand smoking - it should be borne in mind that second-hand smoking has not been measured by relevant scientific methods. But that's something else, too. In addition, all those who talk about the dangers of cigarette smoke forget the most powerful and dangerous plant poison of nicotine, which the pharmaceutical industry happily sells in the form of nicoreta patches that stick to the body so that smokers do not smoke. Nicotine binds to the cell structure and requires additional doses of nicotine. In short, if she doesn't get this body, there's an abstinence syndrome. But it doesn't matter. The main thing is that we have a marriage where something is forbidden. The main thing is that we are following Europe, even though we are following it poorly here. Because Europe is doing differently, smarter, much smarter. Even when research has been discussed, it must be said that the figures that the Ministry representatives have said do not hold. The survey carried out by the Association of Guest Service Providers shows that more than two thirds of the guests have lost their turnover. After a January study, between 31 and 50% of the population was 46%. Between 11 and 30% of the guests. But that doesn't seem to be true. Because if the Ministry declares it's not true, then it's not true. Some people learn very well under some of the former regimes that he said are also "fertik". Even though we saw something white, they said black and it was black. It had to be black. Looks like we're coming back to these times. The epistle survey, which was recently carried out, is also not in favour of the statements made by the Ministry’s representatives. Because 49% were asked to change this incriminated law by the example of the United States of America. And only 45% were against it. It's about the right to a healthy environment. I'd like to see a secretary from the Ministry come here at some point and tell you what the fight against drug addicts is. What is the fight against drug trafficking in Slovenia? No, we almost legalised that in the previous term. Drugs can be sold without a hitch, and if they accidentally get you 40 grams of heroin, you say it's for my personal use and the case is solved. 40 grams of heroin, that's the highest known dose of human survival. But otherwise it's for 40 doses of these beginners. But nobody cares. The Ministry will prohibit or restrict the free decision of people whether they smoke or not. After all, in the marriage proposal, we gave a good idea of what alternative we are giving, but it is none of our concern. The Ministry is against it and it's over. It's sad that it's all over. But you can't help it. One more thing, I'm a non-smoker, and that's why it hurts so much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u127	The position of the group of unrelated Members will be presented by fellow Member Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! As authors or co-authors of this law, we will, of course, support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Lip. I'll try to focus on what the law requires. The law allows smoking or allows the decision of the individual owner of the restaurant up to 100 square metres to decide whether the place will be smoking or non-smoking. We're not saying that all the places are smokers. The owner will decide according to his economic, I will say, calculations and his material needs. The other thing we want to say is something. Anti-constitutionality, banning the sale of tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age, absolute violation of the Constitution, and one case that no one has spoken about today, the introduction of the so-called tobacco euro, whose sole purpose would be to obtain or make available funds for preparations to those who wish to smoke as harmful habits. And it's true, the restaurant employees will no longer be subject to cigarette smoke under your law, but to pneumonia. Lungs can also be life-threatening. Ladies and gentlemen, today, employees at guesthouses are serving at minus 20 also outside. Is that right? Is that right? Despite all this, you imagined when a man died in Celje because of medical unethicality, because they refused to accept him without a license, and he didn't smoke, was he not a smoker? But you're trying to show today that some of us who support this law, I don't know who to poison, I don't know who to kill. Please! Remember your years ago, when you were 17, 18, raise your hands to those who didn't smoke at the time, including the Minister of Health, the ex who suggested such nonsense. As far as employee health is concerned, it's the biggest concern. Look, I don't know a job in this country where health wouldn't be compromised, that work would be so positive that it would even strengthen its health in the workplace. What about volcanoes, asbestos patients, what did you do then? Doesn't asbestos hurt, according to you? Can they continue to work in such an environment? Please! Who do you want to convince, ladies and gentlemen, who will oppose this proposal? And when some of you spoke from the government coalition about how much you want to regulate the field of sales and use of tobacco products? Before you, the law, ladies and gentlemen, has been put into parliamentary procedure for quite some time, but no amendment on your part, no wish. Unless you may be concerned that I will not speak on behalf of other parliamentary groups, that we are the three co-authors of this law coming from the group of unrelated Members of Lip. If that bothers you, it's your problem, not ours. And if you really want to fix anything, you've had that chance now. And another thing the law is talking about is this ban on the sale of tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age. All of you are advocating that there be as much vocational education as possible. When we educate a merchant or a person who finishes a commercial school, he is 17 years old, he goes to a store, a hit-and-run, wherever he works in this country - and he doesn't work because of you - and he has to take every job he's offered. And the owner, most of the time it's private stores and private hits, will - what? - every 15 minutes when a smoker comes in to buy a pack of cigarettes, he swapped it? That's just bullshit. But you didn't stumble with this stupidity when you had a bill before you. But it's stupid to lose words about how badly burned smokers are based on this marriage. As I have already said, in the Lipa Group, we will oppose the decision of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the National Group will be presented by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u130	With regard to the proposal for a law submitted by a group of Members with the first signed Vegetation of Jelinčič, the Health Committee adopted a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. Because of the ban on smoking in restaurants, traffic is expected to decline, especially in smaller restaurants and so on. And you're right about that before closing. This will put a number of jobs at risk. To avoid this, the bill stipulates that the owners of the restaurant should decide on their own to choose between a smoker’s or a non-smoker’s place. There are also some exceptions that the bill is intended to take into account as, say, playrooms, theaters. In particular, the sale of tobacco products by persons under 15 years of age should be prohibited. A legal person may not and may not be liable if the guest or visitor, despite warnings, does not comply with the provisions of the applicable law. It's a two-faced country. It absolutely prohibits smoking and, moreover, the peaceful sale of cigarettes. I think that Slovenia is large enough to live peacefully by smokers and non-smokers in co-existence, so that they would not harm each other. Among other things, it should be noted that the rights of non-smokers are severely reduced, because it is humiliating and dangerous to drink coffee and smoke at 5 degrees outdoors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda or no later than 20 and 45 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the agenda - This is firstly a proposal for a law on the suspension of the validity of the law on the integration of transfers by individuals and the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. We are considering the bill in the context of a regular procedure. I inform you that we have 4 hours and 38 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed magi. France Gnyardsich. With regard to this bill, the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrč and Mr Willi Rezman requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposed Magi Act. To Franc Žnidaršič for a supplementary explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u132	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have tabled the end of the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers because the law in force, adopted in autumn 2006, together with the budgetary documents, was not aligned with the social partners. But he had the following consequences. The freezing of rights such as family benefits, social support, unemployment benefits, breeding, scholarships of all kinds, compensation to those infected with HIV. A summary of the rights to be paid from state and municipal budgets. Freeze seven pension and disability benefits, annual allowance, allowance for assistance and service, invalidity allowances, certain allowances, pensions for pensioners who receive only this from other republics, subsistence allowance and protective allowance. Freezing the grounds for the release of rights under five different laws, freezing of rights under the Health Insurance Act, compensation for sickness, occupational diseases, injuries at work and outside work, care and escort of a family member by order of a doctor. Freezing, exemption from payment of social security services that are not dependent on maintenance. All these rights remain nominally the same throughout 2007. At a time when the government boasted of high economic growth, budget surpluses and prosperity. Although the current harmonisation law speaks, there was no coordination because there was no higher inflation than in 2006. Therefore, the law has been drafted in a way that, for example, the same level of inflation of the said rights could remain for a decade or more without any increase in actuality. With the law in force, which was passed without our support, the government has achieved all the announced objectives: a uniform way of coordinating, linking to inflation and saving 20 million euros. Most of it, it's 13 and a half million euros at the expense of the pension fund. In other words, the government demonstrated prosperity in a way that has made the material situation worse by hundreds of thousands and has added tens of thousands to objective poverty, and all of last year's year, even with the middle man, has not faded at the time of increased inflation and the unexpected severe stimulation of basic living needs, which has affected everything with low incomes more than the wealth. All these rights fell by 5.6% in 2007. The coalition partners did not feel the need to act on our proposal, to disregard the provisions of the coalition agreement, which says that it is necessary to define it. When our law was introduced, high economic growth and prosperity resulted in a demand for a change in implementation times in 2009, since the 2008 budget did not foresee the resources needed for the old mode of coordination. It turns out that the partners have been looking for different solutions to the already adopted law that solves the issues of a protective supplement. The financial implications were not an obstacle because the proposal was prepared by the Government. It would be far more fair for the Government to propose an amendment to bring our law into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal and to incorporate the financial implications into the 2008 balance. DeSUS therefore insists on the proposal for a law, despite the fact that there will be repeated differences in the coordination of social transfers. However, the beneficiaries will be reimbursed more than EUR 20 million of projected savings in 2009 and EUR 25 million if it were in force this year. It is not true that social transfers will be increased in February for the whole price increase in 2007, as stated by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the context of non-support to our proposal for a law. They will be increased in contrast to inflation growth, not for actual inflation from the adopted tax relief law. For instance. The poor have nothing. For most of the frozen rights are not taxed in any way, and they will not be harmed in any better way. Thus, the beating of the poor by the majority of the authorities is just another dishonorable act more in line than ever before. For instance. It has already reduced wages in the public sector in one way or another. Most of all, older workers before retirement. The government is working towards an increasingly deliberate limitation of rights in the field of social, labour and health. It builds a society of a thin layer of rich, poor middle-class intelligence and most poor citizens who will be as humble as a piece of bread cut by power. Your Honor! Support our law, which, by one stroke, terminates the validity of a law that is bad and unfair and, of course, which can be complemented by some, significantly improved to a measure that will be acceptable to all who want to preserve the social state, a sense of co-humanity and solidarity. A law that can be supported by all who understand prosperity so that everyone in this country has at least something of it. The law in force was a mistake. It should therefore be repealed. Failure to support this law will be a crime. The penalty, if not accepted, will come in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have also invited Mrs Marjetko Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the 16th item of the agenda, who is neither present nor present. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Romani Tomc, State Secretary within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u134	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed law on the termination of the Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. Because it considers that existing solutions in the current law are more appropriate than those proposed. The adoption of the Transfer Coordination Act has eliminated a number of illogicalities in the valorisation of transfers. The solutions brought by this law are not seen as a reason to expose the deterioration of the situation of the materially weak. The materially weak are recipients of monetary social assistance, which are coordinated in the same way as they were prior to the adoption of this law. The coordination mechanism has remained unchanged in many other cases. For example, children's allowances, which are one of the most extensive social transfers. We believe that the repeal of the law would reintroduce a wide range of different ways of valorising. Which would mean a step back on the system. In addition, there would be re-coordination of individual categories of transfers over different time periods. From a financial point of view, the abolition of this law would mean an increase in expenditure in the pension and health allowance. While the expenditure of the State budget for parental compensation would even be reduced. In contrast to rising prices of living needs, maternity benefits would be re-coordinated only with the growth of the base salary for non-economic activities. This means that maternity benefits would only increase by half of the projected cost of living. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is monitoring the effects of the operations of the Transfer Coordination Act and has already responded in the area where the most negative effects have been detected. This is in the field of a protective supplement. The protective supplement will increase by 3.6% at the end of January, and will also be measured from a higher base under the new law in February. So the total increase will be almost 9%. The interference with the Transfer Coordination Act would undoubtedly lead to a derogation from the basic objective pursued when adopting this regulation. This is a uniform arrangement for valorisation of all transfers financed by the State and for the approximation of the way in which the arrangements in force in other EU Member States are valorised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SD Group will be presented by fellow Member Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State! A nice greeting for the first time in a new function and my congratulations on the appointment with a desire for a happier hand! Colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the proposed DeSUS law. We agree that with the support of the law and its adoption, we may not be able to resolve all the issues. At the same time, however, we believe that the government and the ruling coalition, together with us, should the law be supported at first reading, must strive to amend those solutions that may make marriage inconsistent or unacceptable in the second reading. For we agree that it would be wise and right to find for the coordination of the various social transfers of the common solution or at least for individual groups of social transfers of the common solution, not as different as it has been so far. However, we do not agree that this is a principle of similar or equal coordination, a principle and a goal set by the Government regardless of the consequences. When we adopted the law that we want to repeal today in 2006, that was the case. The proposed law removes the fundamental error of the ruling coalition in the field of social policy and the coordination of social transfers to individuals and households brought about by this law. We have warned that it will lead to a significant deterioration in the social situation of recipients of social benefits and that the Government and the ruling coalition, cut by DeSUS, has not been prepared to listen. She claimed that this law was urgently needed. She argued that it would not make the social situation worse. We have proved our percentages, and the numbers have stubbornly insisted on the government's position that the law must be adopted as it proposed. As always, the ruling coalition was not prepared and able to reasonably accept the arguments, but followed its government. Thus, it soon appeared that the solutions that had been submitted and which had resulted in the lack of coordination of social transfers on many issues for two years could not be acceptable. Especially at a time when more than the Government had expected and more than managed to infect itself, inflation increased by more than 5% and thus placed many social groups in an even more difficult position than we had predicted at a time when inflation was actually two or half percent. However, unfortunately, not to our delight, black predictions have occurred. Our fellow Member Majda Potrat has asked the Government several times whether the thoughts in view of the prevailing state of action are being taken or not. Even in December, the government considered that there was no reason to change the contested law. However, if needs are identified, it will make such proposals. Even at the end of December, the Government considered that it was likely that there was a need for a change in the protection allowance and the widow's pension. However, she has not yet seen that changes will also be necessary for the child’s supplement. Later, very soon after that, during her New Year’s holiday, she also learned this and prepared a law that we practically unanimously supported at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It's a good thing the government did it. However, it was bad enough that she did so and only when the consequences were so obvious that she could no longer shrink before them. At the same time, she felt that the pressures and demands of those affected were so great that she had to let go. And when she realized that the elections were also approaching and that for that reason she must give in more than she had been prepared in 2006. Although the opposition’s logical warnings were clear. We have already warned at that time that high inflation, as well as any inflation that postpones the possibility of harmonisation for a year, represents a real lower income this year, which is thus affected by any social transfer. And you from the government coalition better than me, and especially from the government, you know better than I do what you've involved in these transfers. You have included in these transfers, on the same basis, everything relating to the rights of children, disabled persons, disabled persons and veterans, unemployed scholarships, even some of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In short, I think that together there were almost 40 or so individual rights, you've settled one law. Not to unify the coordination system. We could have simplified it differently. But in order to save money in the state treasury and to actually reduce these taxes to those who live the hardest and most need certain taxes. That's what we warned you about, too. You were deaf. It is, of course, good that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, adopted the amendments. However, it was bad enough that these changes had to take place only when the consequences had already been evident. Let's put it this way. Not all the negative consequences of this law have been eliminated. I ask Mrs Tomc, Madam Secretary of State, and remind the Government to reconsider that it will not be too late with regard to the many rights that are still being harmonised by law today under this regulation. Because it is still possible to seriously lagging behind many of the benefits that people find difficult to expect by moving prices and living costs. And let the government think about it and find a system of coordination that can be unified for all, but also fair to the recipients. Not that it diminishes their real rights. If this does not happen, the government will again be in a situation where it will have to admit on its nose its irrational decision and its guilt and come up with changes. Or it will find that, while the number of pensioners and their representatives in Parliament are the ones to be avoided by many other groups that are equally or even more affected by the benefits that are falling seriously, they do not have this political power to force the Government to behave properly. I advise you, reconsider and do not allow the law to be rejected today, but let us support it together at first reading. Then let us find a solution to ensure that smart criteria are found by which either all or individual social benefits related groups will be coordinated so that the beneficiaries of these benefits will not be permanently deprived of their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Potch. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u138	Madam President, esteemed colleague and colleague, Madam Secretary of State. I'm going to go very briefly through the marriage or the marriage proposal. The basic objective of this law, proposed by DeSUS, is to eliminate those solutions that have been enacted by government law in order to harmonise individual types of transfers. We in the Liberal Democracy were then opposed to government law. Of course, the reasons have been said many times both then and today. However, because of the change in the law, we were also interested in what was happening at that time in the field of social transfers coordination, what were the advantages - if we can say so and of course what are the weaknesses. As an advantage, I can only mention what the Ministry of Social Affairs actually praised most. These are savings for the country or the budget. We have already said that it is the task of the Minister and the Ministry to take care of its area and not to provide only for the state budget. We're still here today. This fight, which this department has, must nevertheless be directed towards those who are entitled to social assistance, the social care which, through this ministry, is ultimately the most feasible constitutional provision on the fact that Slovenia is a social state. If we look at what we expected at that time, then we can see that expectations were either incomplete or at least not as real as citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but also our parliamentary group. For we expected the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to be able to analyse social security transfers by then, if not at least today. Which could be a good basis for public debate and for possible changes that could take place in a less time-consuming way than today, when it is essentially panicking and when it is actually every week - we could say now - we are taking partial solutions. Even in an extraordinary session today, it may be different next time, for it will certainly show up. Of course, it is true that budget money is spent as efficiently as possible. But that doesn't mean it's there, I don't know how much it's saving, but it's efficiency. Which, of course, is not the same. And that we have financially disadvantaged population groups, which, of course, are not only financially threatened, but otherwise. Also cultural, civil, and so on. Because, after all, we need to know that when social pressures are too high, first people give up and give up what they feel is not the most necessary. Only then, of course, when it comes to the perfect minimum of screams and then it is obvious that this government hears them, and it saves something quickly. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are also aware that those measures of the previous government should continue intensively. It is said that the government 2000-2004 wanted to establish and seek to establish a single information system and transparency over social transfers. Let's not say it didn't happen, it doesn't. However, it is obvious that matters are in fact underthinking or under-appreciated when there are any changes. We expect the Government to prepare an impact assessment of the Law on the Coordination of Transfers of Individuals and Households. On the contrary, we are not going to be left again just to see how the state budget has gone down. Last week we fixed - if you remember correctly - protective supplements, baby supplements. And the question is: What else will need to be changed because the causes are not solved? The consequences are reflected in different segments. They are growing, touching different groups of people of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens and citizens. The matter is not fully predictable and, of course, it is not fully transparent. If these analyses were to be carried out, of course, an expert diagnostic system would also be able to anticipate and act much earlier. However, not that it actually closes, but that some comments are cynically rejected and action is taken only later. This is how we support further consideration of this law in the Liberal Democracy. At the same time, we note, of course, that it is necessary to consider, however, what the whole deletion of the law means, because in this way certain social transfers would certainly deteriorate. So we're talking about the marriage going into further consideration. At the Ministry of Labour, the family, of course, social affairs is, of course, seeing what can happen and preparing solutions, and then including the amendment or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u140	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Nicely greeted! The basis for social policy is certainly justice. This is that the same people in the same situations are treated in the same way. And this was the basic starting point for the law, which today is trying to suspend itself with the amendment of the law, or with a proposal presented by the proposer. So this is the same treatment of the same. And this coordination in the same way, i.e. at the same height and at the same time. Social transfers under the Treasury are - I think - between 30 and 40, so I won't be mistaken. All of these transfers have been coordinated differently until recently, before this law, which is so much to be discussed, and citizens have been placed in completely different situations. Over time, the valorisation has brought some extremely great benefits and a significantly better position than it had at the beginning. You know, in the context of these social transfers, there are also some with sound names, such as invalids, where some claim two types of invalids, each reaching 1,000 euros, together with other benefits. We have calculated this in the accumulation of these benefits, over EUR 4,000 per year. Therefore, we must ask ourselves in this fairness: Is it fair for citizens who are employed and have 400 euros in wages to give social transfers to those who receive them, say, over 2,000? Of course, this is a fundamental question of the fairness of the distribution of social income. During the last three years, there has been coordination of pensions. And if we calculate how much the new form of coordination meant, we can quickly find that the substantially higher amount that is being said today, that it has actually been reduced under the state budget by the way of valorisation, is significantly higher. So the pensioners' status has improved significantly. When we have addressed the issue of a protective supplement, I can firmly ensure that without this benefit created by the new law proposed by the Government in January and adopted by the National Assembly that if there were no such law, in fact those with the lowest pension benefits would receive the same as they would have received under that old law which was enforced during the previous coalition or previous government. However, this is less than it has been in the way of valorisation within this government. And so it was wise, reasonable, and good for this law to be reformed. Even then, at the time of the adoption of this law, some Members have found that if we harmonise a whole set of rules with one law, there may be some things that need to be corrected because it is not possible to predict everything in advance. Therefore, there is no problem and no awkwardness if a certain discrepancy is corrected by the amendment of the law. This has always happened in the history of governments, Slovenian and former Yugoslav. It has been said that under this law social transfers have decreased by 20 million euros. Only a new Family Benefits Act increases expenditure from the budget by about 30 million euros. So it's a positive profit from the budget for the benefit of citizens about 10 million euros. There are no more reasons for any criticism. For the children's allowances are lifted up. In addition to this year's inflation-based harmonisation in the past year - 3.6, another 8.4 totals a 12% increase, which certainly exceeds the amount of inflation. We have to say that not all products were taxed by 12% because inflation is not that high either. Although some prices at the expense of cartel arrangements and monopolies have increased significantly. Much more than inflation itself. If we had repealed the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, we would have done great harm to certain family taxes. So: parental compensation and compensation for maternity leave. This is what we said is a fundamental incentive for more children to be born in Slovenia. Finally, they also stress. This may also have contributed to the decision of Slovenian families to decide for more children. It's complicated. I'm not gonna say that. We cannot say this in New Slovenia, which factor has affected the decision to live more lives in Slovenia. Those involved in demographic policy will also make it clear to you that it is difficult to identify a factor that affects decisions. Sometimes that's purely a personal reason. With regard to the coordination of transfers to that law, this is based on fairness, and I can also point out here that the draft of such a law has also been drafted in the previous government. This is also why the way of coordination and the level of coordination of social transfers should be regulated in a uniform manner. Where, though, do we have the argument that social transfers should be valorized differently if they all have the same meaning - to provide these minimum means of survival for those who cannot survive in their own work, because they are in the same situation? Thus, the problems that have arisen in the population with the lowest income have been addressed by the amendment of the Law on a Protection Supplement, the Family Benefits Act, that is to say, as regards the child allowance, and the Income Act. This covered those negative effects caused by inflation. If inflation were not available, then these laws would not be necessary either. It's the inflation and the teasing. And the answer was, "The end of the day, there is no need for Members in this National Assembly to judge whether it is good or not. So let those who are concerned be judged. This is, for example, an organisation, a non-governmental family initiative, "rules quickly and effectively mitigates the effects of encouraging food for families", she wrote. The government responded to this problem quickly and effectively with a proposal to increase the child supplement. In short, those most affected by this issue have responded whether the measures were correct or not. This is where I abstain from any judgment. Let those who are concerned and who have delivered judgment give judgment. In view of the fact that recent laws have ensured an improvement in the social situation of those with the lowest income, that they have come into a significantly more favourable position than they would have under the old law, that is, before the validity of the law that is being repealed today. And given that this law, which we are considering today, would significantly exacerbate the situation of families due to the reduction of maternity benefits and parental benefits, the New Slovenia Group will reject this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! At the beginning of this mandate, the Government submitted amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act to the National Assembly. With the amendment of this law, she added to the burden of the pension allowance. For the first time by coordinating pensions strictly after the average wage growth with the annual supplement also for recipients of the highest pensions. We used to have this limited in terms of solidarity. And with the work of widowing pensions also for those who receive the highest pension benefits. Practically for everyone by gradually introducing this part. It is clear that the pension or state budget was immediately additionally burdened, given that the State budget is not only burdened by transfers going both on pension and on other terms, but also by the regular amount of money required to pay pension benefits, in so far as they exceed the revenue capacity in accordance with Article 233 of the Pension Insurance Act. It is clear that then the Minister of Finance came a little fast with the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Households and Individuals. This law was also one of the laws within the government's economic and social reform package and one of the laws that are part of measures to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. The Slovenian People's Party strongly opposed this law in the section of the proposed law. In the segment with which he entered the pension-disability insurance scheme in the sense that these transfers represent additional entitlements from pension-disability insurance, such as a security allowance, an allowance for assistance and service, invalidity. It is then a subsistence allowance for farmers under the Farmers' Maintenance Act, such as a supplement to Slovenian citizens to the pension they receive from the republics of the former SFRJ. And so is the state's pension. We have opposed this for a long, almost a year. Then we were satisfied in the sense that only the state pension in coordination was maintained in the same way as the other pensions. As the pension system is set up for us, all these additional rights, which go under Article 57 of this Law, could also be coordinated. After one year, we gave in, and we knew that this was an extraordinary delay for low-income recipients in receiving monthly pensions. Why? Because, like all transfers, they have also engaged in coordination, as a basis for the assessment of these rights. And the same basis for a dose supplement for our citizens who receive pensions from the countries of the former SFRJ. We have done this to make sure that some have even lost a protective supplement because the foundation has not been coordinated. We have done so that these low-income pensioners are virtually no more than a year-and-a-half pension. Receipts, such as a security allowance, as well as others, represent more than 1/3 of the total remuneration for some of these beneficiaries. We knew this would happen, and it happened. We've been alerting for a long time. At least I personally, in last year's ministry, given that we've seen unrestrained inflation grow, it has to be stopped. While I continued to believe that we should change this Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, that the whole matter, which is also positive in this law's system, should not be subject to a measure of the new law. No amendment to the Protection Supplement Act, this is a new law with which it has returned to coordination in the same way as it was, these key transfers, such as the protection allowance that was most needed, such as maintenance to farmers, such as the supplement to pensions received by our citizens from the countries of the former republics of the SFRJ. I am sorry that we have not been able to understand enough to bring the coordination of disability back into the system as it was, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In our view, in the view of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, this law, which we recently adopted at an extraordinary meeting, the Protection Supplement Act, was abolished - although quite too late, unfortunately the Government did not respond to the fact that there was clearly data on the situation in these people - that, however, we have eliminated the necessary changes in the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers that we have caused by such an approach. It is true, however, that the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers harmonises certain other transfers, which are equally strongly felt by those who receive them, better coordinated under this law than under the original law, according to which roof law a single transfer is established. We will therefore act in this context by rejecting the proposed law. Because of this, if we do not reject it, then we will create a bad situation in other segments, which is better addressed by this law. However, with the Protection Supplement Act, we have abolished those unnecessary access to the coordination of key transfers in terms of pension and disability insurance in terms of additional rights. That's why we're going to reject the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, Mr President! The law before us is trying in some way to remedy the consequences of another marriage, which are truly extremely bad. With the adoption of the Transfer Coordination Act, the current Government has already dealt with the area by hand, causing more damage than benefits. That's more or less obvious today. At the time of the adoption of the law in 2006, the previous law, no analyses of the situation, no projections of the proposed amendments, nor any clear objectives were provided under the urgency procedure. And then in the opposition, we drew attention to some of the weaknesses that would occur at the time of the adoption of the previous law, but no one wanted to listen. The proposal for a law, one of the coalition parties on the termination of the one adopted by the same government as we put in 2006 is undisputedly welcome. But the problem is, of course, that we do not have, at this time, sufficient clear analyses of the state of play in the area of payments to individuals and households. It is not clear which group of beneficiaries of transfers would improve the situation by abolishing this law and perhaps even make it worse for the group. But above all, what's crucial. We still do not have clear answers from the government or coalition, which would be appropriate measures to maintain social sustainability in Slovenia. It should be stressed that, given the current social situation in the country, a broader debate on the coordination and payment of various transfers should be addressed in the National Assembly. Therefore, and precisely because this debate is being held, we will indeed vote in the Group of Members that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. This means, of course, that we expect that in the next stages the bill will also be complemented accordingly. However, we believe that the conditions are met so that we can vote in favour of, as I have already said, being fit for further consideration. Let me also explicitly express our disagreement in some way or even resentment over some statements made by some government representatives, including the Minister of Finance, stressed when he justified the advantage of the previous Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers. In view of the issue of where the State budget was saved, the fact of social transfers has been highlighted. Indeed, it was saved in the case of invalidity pensions, in the case of various pension supplements, in the case of dependents and therefore showed a statistical surplus budget. But paradoxically, this surplus has been financed by those who have the least and who have found themselves in the most difficult situation because of high inflation. I was also called by many beneficiaries of invalidity pensions, warned that the existing system was weak, unrestrained. They repeated arguments we had in the opposition a long time ago, but at the time no one in the government apparently wanted to hear this, to respond. As I said, it seems essential and urgent that this system of coordination of social transfers be improved. Correct those who are now most at risk of improving their situation. So we have a situation where you know, last week in the National Assembly, we passed laws trying to improve the situation of the most vulnerable. [[...]] And when we recalculate what this means, we see that it actually goes to a monthly level of about €20, on the other hand, until recently we have had laws whereby some key social transfers have been aligned with inflation only once a year, without any back-up calculation. In fact, what we did at an extraordinary meeting last week is in fact only a small part of what was taken away from these recipients by the high inflation we are witnessing. As I said, in the Group of Members, we really appreciate that such a debate is necessary in order for it to take place long ago in the National Assembly, so we will vote that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. With regard to the Law on the Coordination of Transfers, I should say once again and clearly that, when this law was adopted quickly in 2006, there was not a single vote of DeSUS Members. Because it was possible to assume that it was bad, that it would have a negative effect, and since it was already possible to know, as it had been condemned to someone today, it was the Ministry of Finance and not the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. So someone mentioned earlier that he had been proposed by the Minister of Finance. According to the content, it is like the 2006 law proposed by the Minister of Finance. Nor did we at the time resist in order to regulate the way transfers were coordinated. However, if we can still hear today that the way is so world that it is not possible to depart from it, even if for the thousands of people concerned, the effect is negative, then we can only call it "the topping cynicism". And these are simple facts that this law, adopted in 2006, has had negative consequences. And now to insist on the negative consequences only so that we can keep the form, but we cannot support this in the DeSUS Group. And if we asked that, as someone suggested, those few thousand, ten thousand, who were injured would disagree. We in the Dessus Group should be pleased today that we are modest. We should be pleased because we are even allowed to discuss this today, and we were not allowed to discuss it in December. We should be satisfied with this because we expect to receive at least the support of the opposition parties. It would be nice if one of the remaining three-quarters of the coalition supported our intention. But in this law, which has only two articles, there is no article that says it is not allowed to be amended. Therefore, there are desperate cries about how, even if there is something wrong in such a law, there is no point in adopting legislation, so that the law can be improved, that it can be complemented, that something can be changed, that it can be amended and that the law can finally be adopted in the optimal version. When we were first rejected, we were relatively harsh with the proposal of this law. Today we should once again be satisfied and optimistic, because in the meantime, some of our ideas have been taken over, some even implemented. Some have already taken place in terms of the adoption of new legislation. The preference of the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has changed several times, at least in the part that was written down and which I will quote later. Today, though, we heard a different attitude at the outset. But, as I say, we are pleased, let's say, that we can discuss this, because we can hope to hear some good suggestions for improving our bill, so we are also pleased that the three laws that improve the social situation of those who have been most affected have been adopted, even for the sake of this law. We have also supported these laws. They only had one beautiful mistake. He was missing on this bouquet of tape laws, a ribbon with the inscription DesSUS. But that's not why we're going to press charges. It is not so important for people to know who the real proposer was, whether the effects of the laws adopted are positive for them. And they will, even though in humble form, they will. When we were rejected, some said, as I will now quote, "If this law were passed, the law proposed by the DeSUS delegation would indeed be the erosion of the social state and the slapping of those who live the worst in this country." This, the true wise man, would be a real step back in terms of the social state. He's not here today to be ashamed of blushing at what he said at the time. Someone else was milder and mentioned only that the month of December was not suitable for January to be more appropriate. And someone else has rejected our proposals in such a way that they have not yet considered all the consequences and that when the consequences of our law are finally adopted, they will decide whether or not they will support the law. Well, to this day they have not faced the consequences and have not told us what their concerns are. Except for the total blockage. For us, of course, the most interesting thing is how the Ministry and the Minister reacted. First, I quote again, it stated that the existing solutions in the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households are appropriate. So the ones we wanted to change are the ones that are appropriate. And that's why they don't support DeSUS's proposal. Why not? I quote again, "...because the financial consequences are not negligible." Yes, we did not think that the financial consequences must be negligible. We wanted them to be so that people could feel them, so that they could live easier, so that they could get along at a time that is not the most favourable because of inflation and irritation. That is why we also received relatively quick calculations after the Prime Minister's intervention, which we mentioned, what our proposal for a law would mean when it was implemented. €25 million more for socially disadvantaged people. But that wasn't acceptable to the Minister at the time. The month of January, when another law was signed, was acceptable. At that time, it was about five million dollars in one marriage. Excuse me. 25 million euros in one marriage and 38 in the other. But with regard to the protection allowance, it was intended for pensioners only EUR 3 to 4 million. So it is a drop within other ratings that we have rightly committed to socially disadvantaged people. At that time, the Ministry, I quote, "...that repealing the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households is not an appropriate measure." Of course it's not appropriate. Because if it were adopted, perhaps there would be no surplus of the budget. And as long as the Ministry of Labour thinks in terms of the Ministry of Finance, it is an inadequate measure. Improper law. Three laws were later adopted: income laws, family benefits and a protective allowance, which were cumulatively equivalent to 80 million. This one was appropriate and, of course, we support it. But we're still wondering why some of DeSUS's proposals were taken out of this bouquet, but they haven't yet. And why do we insist that this law be further considered, supplemented, and finally adopted? Because these three laws have only improved three of the more than forty measures concerning social transfers. And we don't see the real reason why we wouldn't be on this list of measures that speak of aid and service, why not also measures that concern the annual allowance for pensioners, why not all those transfers that concern, the type of transfers, the scholarships, the compensation for the disabled, the family assistants, or, for example, those who are unemployed, or the victims of war violence, or any of the other 40 categories that have not been taken into account so far. If I initially said that we should actually be satisfied and optimistic, I will now try to say why. Because the letter we all received from the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs states that we must prevent the damage that would have occurred if the existing way of valorisation were maintained, i.e. the damage that would have arisen in this way and which would have been again, I quote: "reprivileged the socially disadvantaged". [[...]] The Ministry recognises that it is causing damage and that the social threats will be re-deprived. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also says: "The current law really puts beneficiaries in a less favourable position." How, then, can this law of ours, which we would like to improve, be rejected? How is that possible? What kind of thinking is that? For the third time, I quote the Ministry: "The main purpose of the law on the coordination of transfers is to increase social transfers and the effects are in conflict with the purpose of the law on the coordination of transfers." The ministry with these three quotations, which I have listed, notes that their position at the outset, when they rejected our proposal for a law, was wrong and that something must have been done in this area. Of course, I am even more optimistic about this because the Prime Minister spoke about these things yesterday and again quote the words of others. He says, "This government has not ignored the situation in the last six months," this is a difficult situation, "but also through the National Assembly, it has taken the necessary measures to mitigate the negative effects of inflation, particularly the negative effects that are in the lowest income class." And the Prime Minister continues: "And we will monitor the situation in advance and react if necessary." And it ends, of course, I skip the lines: "We will be happy with any proposal regarding the possibility of doing anything else. That's essential." He's done with that. And it is essential for us to remain optimistic that we will receive at least so much support with the support of the Minister's quotations, which I have previously listed and supported by this performance by Mr Janez Janša yesterday, that we can at least discuss this law. We therefore propose that you all decide to mark or define this law as suitable for further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Holy One is supposed to be a coalition contract. It's not. On 13 December, I hope that it was not also Friday, a proposal was put forward in the National Assembly to withdraw the item from the agenda proposed by the SDS, NSI and SLS Members' groups and to withdraw from the agenda essentially a proposal for a law that we are re-examined today. If we look at later reactions, it was clearly stated by the proposer that it was not given to them either to harmonise within the coalition, and that this withdrawal at a time when half of the people in this country are in a significantly poorer position to survive is an unreasonable act. At that time, it was argued that this law was intended to cause social erosion and to in some way threaten the stability of the budget itself. The government boasts on the one hand that it has surpluses, on the other hand it does not understand the social problems of the most vulnerable. This money, which we will spend if we adopt the law, goes exactly where they need it most, goes to households in the Republic of Slovenia that do not, in fact, reach the minimum necessary for survival. That's exactly where the money goes. And if we look at Eurostat data that prove that basic inflation is greatly increased and that the trend is increasing, then it is so important that we adopt such a law. The government is talking about if there is no strong inflation, then there is no need to adopt this law. And these were the reasons why they did not accept him at the time. Inflation is such today, and in fact it is difficult to mitigate it. And it'll be even bigger by the odds. What we did to keep me from talking about others. In the Slovenian National Party, we have proposed that the National Assembly speak on this subject. I personally called on the President of the National Assembly in writing, who has not even replied to me today, and has the opportunity to convene a meeting, such as the President of the Government of Janša, who has not responded and then the President of the State, Drnovsk. Now the coalition or opposition has decided otherwise, and we will convene an extraordinary meeting. This extraordinary meeting will take place on Thursday. She'll talk about what we're talking about here, what's uncontrollable, what we can't stop anymore, it's poverty, inflation. I don't understand duplicity. Some of you literally speak for this non-reality speaker, including the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, as well as the largest ruling parties. Literally not true. If you do not allow families who receive less than €350 a month, an allowance of €50, and if this is a threat to budgetary stability, then if this is the price, the country should fail! And let it go to waste if that's the price. I know it's not the price, it's just the stubbornness. You want to insist on some fact you've accepted. And the sacrament of the government is not a coalition treaty. If the coalition acted as it should, we would not be discussing these things today and waste our time. Nor would there be an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly due to inflation. In the end, there's something else I'd like to say. If we really are a social state, as set out in Article 2 of the Constitution, if this is what we seriously think we are, then the adoption of this law, which is before you today, should not really be a problem. But if we're not, and if you're really as uncoordinated in the coalition as you can see from all these magnetograms, then I think it's right that it's less than 300 days before the election, and it's also right that the elections are just a day earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much again today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So much has been said about this subject in this National Assembly that I don't really know where to start, really. When I listened to some speakers in front of me, the person who is actually the author of the contested law, the law on the coordination of transfers to households and individuals, the law that added to the injustices in our society, not to one, two or three persons, to thousands of people, due to the basic government law adopted at the end of 2006, was the cause of injustice. This person today said that the basic purpose of government law in our society was to introduce a system of justice. I ask myself, but I don't want to be demagogic, I don't want to be populist, but I wonder if justice is that because of the law, the basic government law in our society has increased the number of people who have been pushed to or even below the poverty threshold. And if the same person spoke, how many pensioners in our society have improved the social situation. How's the pensioner doing today? I'm asking, is it true? 200,000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 400 euros. And you know, when the law on the coordination of transfers was passed, I remember the debate on the homework body in Parliament. At that time, only because of the request of the coalition partner DeSUS, because they threatened to leave the coalition, was the pension coordination system excluded from this system. Hands on your heart, respectable colleagues and colleagues. But this law on coordination of transfers specifically meant for pensioners that some have even lost a protective allowance. Yeah. The Prime Minister arrived early this year with a package of social laws. From this system he has taken away a protective allowance which will be re-coordinated as a pension, because some pensioners have lost a protective allowance due to this law, government law. The Prime Minister has come with a 8.5% raise in the children's allowance. However, he forgot to say that in 2007 there was no harmonisation of children's allowances due to the government's law on coordination of transfers. Around 40 there are all transfers that are coordinated on the basis of unfair government law. However, they should be paid from the State budget, such as: child allowance, child care allowance, partial loss of income payment, large family allowance, rations, various scholarships, or transfers paid from the budgets of municipalities such as: staff scholarships, partial payment for lost income to the family assistant, or those payments paid under the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute of Slovenia, such as: annual allowance, allowance for assistance and service, disability and protective allowances. There's about 40 different transfers. And these transfers are linked, respected colleagues and colleagues, people. Those people who meet reality every day. And this reality is 6.5% inflation in 2007. And all these people have lost the right to align their incomes with the rise in the price of living. I remember, at the end of 2006, we drew attention to the disastrous consequences that the reckless introduction of government law can have. At that time, Minister Drobnič, our fellow Member, was then a minister, and at that time the minister said that such a system was the true single indexation of social transfers, or all transfers, was introduced because we simply did not have high inflation from 2005 to 2006. I tried to get an answer from the Prime Minister yesterday. When there was a frenzy of high inflation in 2006 why, for more than half a year, the President of the Government, the competent minister, has waited, I will say, with mitigating measures. Why? No more calls, initiatives were given by the opposition alone. Why did the government coalitions not agree in the month of December last year that today or today’s law should be considered in order to have a general debate on a law that says that the contested government law should be abolished because it is unjust? It's been practically nothing for six months. And then you come before this National Assembly, in front of a wide Slovenian public, and I'll say, wide mouth, boast and boast about how social policy you go. That's sand in my eyes, and I said very mild, sand in my eyes! And let me just say, I was already in the framework of my mother's working body a while ago, and then today's secretary of state at the Ministry was with us, asking for information on how much the government or the state had saved, because in 2007, transfers under unfair government law were not coordinated. At that time, the representatives of the Ministry, the Secretary of State, Mr Stroves, had no such information. At that time, the Secretary of State gave me the floor to deal with the draft law, but the law in the social package at the extraordinary January meeting received concrete information, a calculation of how much the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had saved. I didn't get that information until today. I wonder if it was the government's intention to actually centralise or simplify the system of valorisation of transfers at that time. No, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The only purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at that time was to save. And this is also found in the basic criminal government proposal of the law. It reads clearly and loudly: "The government notes with satisfaction, in the context of the financial implications of the budget, that the effects of the changes in valorisation compared to the pre-adoption situation will save considerable resources." Significant funds, respected colleagues and colleagues in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. What's more than social savings? And the government goes on to say: "This savings are expected to amount to seven and a half million euros in 2007, sixteen and a few million euros in 2008 and even twenty-five million euros in 2009 or nearly twenty-six million euros in 2009. This was the sole purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it came to Parliament with a controversial, criminal law. I would like to ask my fellow Members and colleagues to be able to overcome this much, not to say wisdom, common sense, but so much human sensitivity, to say today that the law by which the DeSUS Group proposes the withdrawal of a controversial, unjust government law is suitable for further consideration. Last but not least, if you do not agree with any of the proposed solutions, you have the opportunity in the next parliamentary procedure to correct the solutions in the form of amendments. I'm asking you to do it. It's about people, after all. Not for those things. Mr Drobnic has made a case today that there are also, I don't know, people under this law who have thousands per year and a few more euros of income at the expense of transfers. Not at the expense of those. Those should be sanctioned, but in another way. At the expense of those, such as those of the five-member family who were forced into disability in the family, because of the 400 euros of income they receive per month, to change the apartment and today they are pushing on 60 square meters. But they're promising to lose that, too. And that right, because they simply can't live anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u151	Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the delegation of the national community. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u152	I don't think I should say anything, because before me, the speaker convinced you how someone who has a heart is voting. However, I would say that I will also support this law, and I know that the basic objective of the law is to abolish the solutions that have been enacted by the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia in order to re-establish a way of coordinating the individual types of transfers that have been in force since 1 January 2007. Proposalers believe that the Government is attempting to achieve its macro-economic and public financial objectives unilaterally, mainly from an economic perspective, by stressing the importance of long-term sustainability of finances, a balanced budget and the continued management of inflation, while ignoring social sustainability. In terms of social policy, it is clear that there is a need to strike a balance between the long-term sustainability of public finances and social sustainability in order to enable recipients of social assistance to have a decent survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia have adapted throughout history to the demands and needs of individual groups, so in 2006 the Government undertook the unification and introduction of a transparent manner of such payments to individuals and households. The basic objective of the law was to legislate solutions that allowed for the coordination of transfers of individuals and households in a more uniform and transparent manner and at the same time to ensure the equal social situation of beneficiaries to individual types of transfers. The system is geared towards aligning transfers arising from work rights with wage growth and transfers related to cost of living with the increase in living costs. The law entered into force on 1.1.2007 and the different types of transfers were also very large. On the basis of the analysis carried out during the short period of validity of the law, the law also has positive consequences for the following transfers: child allowance, child care allowance, large family allowance, child support, parental allowance, breeding, cash social assistance, unemployment benefits, parental benefits, mental and physical protection aid, Republic scholarships, human resources scholarships, unemployment scholarships, unemployment benefits, out-of-work benefits, family member care and escorts, and several other transfers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we allow the possibility that a protective allowance has not been carefully and carefully addressed, which we have already corrected in the previous extraordinary session. Also because of what we have said in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot agree with DeSUS's proposal to terminate the law on the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households. We are of the opinion that because of one spruce, which is the principle of the skull, it makes no sense to cut down the entire forest. The marriage has fixed everything that wasn't right. We therefore consider the law to be good, modern and transparent. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will oppose the law on the termination of the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, proposed by DeSUS for revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Many words were made in the presentation of the views of the groups. And the position given by our leader, Miran Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, almost has nothing to add. I will certainly support the proposed text of the law. I will support the conclusion that a suitable basis for further consideration is that I am convinced that the proposal for a law drafted by the DeSUS Group is a good basis for eliminating the anomaly, to remedy the errors caused by the adoption of the law which is being repealed two years ago. It would be interesting to hear what colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš requested or suggested a long time ago to hear the exact figures on how much we saved. In fact, I am appalled that social transfers are an area where we are saving and, on the other hand, we are wasting our resources on the state budget. Not to mention all sorts of affairs, not to mention all kinds of unnecessary purchases or anything else. Our warnings at the time when the law was adopted to make the social picture or social situation of individuals significantly worse were overheared. This, of course, is nothing new and has been a practice in this National Assembly for some time now. That is how this law was passed, and with what we are dealing with today, we could correct this mistake. The government's attitude is also reflected in whether it listens to the initiatives of those who do not think exactly as they do or not. And it is also right to point out here that the attitude towards civil society, the attitude towards those who want certain changes, is not good to face the problems they are alerting us to. Let me mention, for example, only disabled workers. I also asked the Minister of Finance a question. For some time now, disabled workers have wanted to meet with the Ministry of Finance to remedy certain shortcomings. And there's no meeting here. I understand that it is possible that in a particular area there is no way to reach an agreement that there is no way to conclude an agreement. I do not understand and agree that there is no willingness to talk, that there is no willingness to try to find a compromise or solution. The law to be repealed and, of course, this law, which is to be repealed, has resulted in some not receiving social transfers for two years. In doing so, let us reflect the role of inflation, which has been high and has destroyed such low social transfers. Again and again in such discussions, and this time I will not forget to note that it is necessary to be very careful when we assess and, above all, in such sensitive areas as what we are dealing with today, we find individual derogations and then, by abolishing these derogations, we punish everything in order, we take the rights in every order. When we talk about the coordination of social transfers, this may also be an opportunity to draw attention to groups of people who, despite all the Slovenian legislation, do not even have this right. A while ago, I was visited by a pensioner in Velenje who paid for his pension insurance in Croatia at the time we lived in the common country of Yugoslavia and was not even aware of the danger he was facing. Indeed, by agreement, and also by our legislation, it has been achieved that these people, too, receive, in ignorance, a'received' pension. But a lot of things didn't work out. He warned me first of all of the shortcomings of the aid and service allowance. People working in other republics of the former Yugoslavia today do not have the opportunity to obtain this supplement. The excuse in Slovenia is that they were insured for disability insurance and paid contributions abroad, when they turn abroad, and they have been told that they are insured in Slovenia and that they should do so in Slovenia. And so they stay somewhere in the cleared space in between, and they can't fix anything. So the problems in this area are quite something, and if we start by eliminating what will end this law, we will take a step back, but a step towards the starting point, where we or you have made a big mistake, a great injustice, and then we can choose a path in the other direction and together all Members, both coalitions and opposition, as well as the Secretariat Ministry, prepare amendments and remedy those shortcomings that we point out will remain in the system even if this law is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. To my word, I invite Ambassador Joseph Bajc. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary of State! Let me start my discussion with the actual data published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 June last year, when it published the data on 3.6% of the annual growth in living needs. Why I chose this particular data from the statistical office is probably not a coincidence, because the decision on what kind of valorisation of transfers will be this year. But in June the vote on the embezzlement was already being hosted, but the warnings of that then only increased. And this encouraged me to turn to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the President of the Government, to the Government and again to the Minister of Labour with some initiatives and questions. Why am I talking about this? Because first of all, I would like to react to the very courageous position of the former minister when he quoted Mr Merchet as saying how quickly the government responded when it took care of the children's allowances. I object. It wasn't a quick reaction. The rapid reaction was if I start the story at the end of December 28, or at the end of December, when it was not yet known that the children's allowances would increase by the last week when we adopted a 8.4% linear increase in the National Assembly without getting a single explanation of why it was 8.4% increase by about 150,000 beneficiaries of the child supplement. Secret is simple. 30 million euros had to be distributed. This is still a pigeon on the roof because the President of the Government has announced that a budget balance will be needed to ensure that these funds are also provided in the budget. So much for speed. That's the only thing that was really fast in action. Why, though, was it so fast and why this change was needed? There is no need for overthinking. This is another of the non-systemic laws and solutions with which we solve things so little after the fire, which are caused by the adoption of a law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households adopted under the urgent procedure in October 2006. We have disputed the urgency of the process, we have disputed that the law has not been harmonised at all, nor has it been coordinated with the social partners, that it has not had any simulations, that it has combined the regulation of two areas, areas of social assistance, with pronounced social transfers, and those rights deriving from work. Therefore, we cannot only talk about social transfers. The only thing that could not be disputed was what the former Minister had previously said on behalf of the Group of Members that equal treatment should be introduced. We don't object to that. But the way it was done, it's controversial. We still think that the way was inadequate, because there is no increase in life’s needs on December, December set. The law doesn't have any guards. In fact, when this matter was announced, no one was counting on or counting on such high inflation. And in marriage, if you're already asking respectable colleagues from DeSUS, it would also be possible to install some kind of protection to talk about what happens when the growth of life needs is excessively high, so that they are not at risk those who are most at risk. And cynicism is to justify the adoption of this law with some of those recipients who have very high incomes. No one has said how many are those who receive a few thousand euros. However, how many are known who have low incomes and live below the poverty line? Because we've been listening to information lately about how well we're doing. Let me just say that according to the latest data, the difference between the risk of poverty in the European Union is on average 5% between women and men. In Slovenia, the risk of poverty for women is three times higher. 26% are at risk and 11% are male. And I wish the two of us were even less. But I'm asking you to do that after taking into account social transfers. So much so that we know what we're talking about. Look, we've put 38 transfers into the marriage. Now we have two laws and only two laws: a protective allowance and a children's allowance. What about other transfers? Let's say it's interesting. The scholarships will be harmonised by 3.6%, but I am reading data that student grants for subsidised food will be encouraged. It is true that they should be auctioned at most by 3.6%, but what brilliant mathematician really doesn't have to be to know what the impact of valorisation will be. That's it. How we take care of the young population when we've been so boastful lately. And what I want to say right now is really exactly how the government reacted, but this is what it is. On 28 August, I referred to the Government's initiative to prepare changes to the Ministry in the long term to ensure adequate levels of income for transfer recipients due to the adverse effects of unexpected high inflation and other possible weaknesses that have already been demonstrated in the implementation of the law. And, of course, she also gave an initiative for extraordinary harmonisation because this poverty was what it was. By September 21st, when I had to predict the question, I had received no reply from the Ministry. Not on this initiative, although the former Secretary of State said three days after his posting on television that it was not necessary to do so. When I asked the Prime Minister a similar question, he asked me to propose measures. And I have proposed some measures. It was only after the Governor of Banka Slovenije said that the Government had not done everything that could be done that things began to be treated differently. They know what statements were still in between. But what's interesting is that when I still didn't get an answer, on the day of the fight against poverty, on October 17th, I referred the question to the government again. And here's something interesting to say. When the Ministry of Labour sent to the Government a proposal for an answer to this question, it also said that, I would say, "Excellent harmonisation of transfers at this point is not possible because the law does not foresee it. [[...]] However, this does not mean that there can be no change if they consider it necessary." So that's what happened on December 6th. When the answer to the Government was adopted, the matter went a little differently and it was said, but the first part, why extraordinary harmonisation cannot be, was the same, but in the second part, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs had already prepared a proposal for amendments to the coordination of certain transfers relating to recipients of the protective allowance and beneficiaries of widowed pensions. At the time, the diction was a little different, and the proposal for a law on a protective supplement identifies the applicant or the proposer, the Government itself notes that the negative effects of the Law on the coordination of transfers have been demonstrated and the law needs to be corrected. So much for how fast things were going between August and December or January. What I am reading again, and what is not resolved, is that we do not resort to systemic solutions, we should cut into the Transfer Coordination Act, so I will support the adoption of this law, because it seems to me that this is strong enough or only strong enough to warn that solutions in this law are as unacceptable as they are. On the proposer's side, it is necessary to listen to comments and, with the assistance of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to prepare such changes so that they are acceptable and truly suggest systemic solutions. Excuse me, honourable coalition Members and Members, who do not intend to support the proposal for a conclusion that this law is a suitable basis for the continuation of the legislative procedure, now give me one argument: how will you, as a systemic solution, defend the Law on Diagnostic Nutrition? You're just second-in-commanders. From 38 to 43 million funds must be provided for what needs to be done there. And again, whenever we Social Democrats put amendments into the budget to raise social contributions or to improve or raise social transfers, you said we were running demagogies and populism. I am now talking about these things much easier because they are already behind us and because you knew that in this way we are saving the situation of the most threatened and that there will be no one between us who would hope to challenge such solutions. But let's also show enough courage to do something about the system's regulation of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. However, Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to the arguments of some to reject this law that we have passed, they at the same time justify the law in force in a way that they understand the implementation of the Bologna Strategy by adopting laws that create more and more poor people every day. Some said that the Government or the budget was burdened by the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act in accordance with the Coalition Treaty and that it was necessary to compensate for this matter then. It was a debate. Why didn't you gentlemen say that when we were negotiating to enter the coalition? We certainly didn't think that way, and then we wouldn't have come and we could have worked alone without us. Not just that. We were asked several times to withdraw from the procedure this law, which we also wanted to do, but our condition was that the Government would tell us how it would otherwise resolve the issue of all those who were not covered in the protective allowance and that part of some widow's pensions, but the Government did not talk to us, nor did coalition partners have any idea, because they did not talk to their own coalition party if this is small. Three of them get along, and then that's how it goes. You think of us as ornaments and all the chatter about being a weak article is ugly, rude and cynicism on the part of these opposition parties who don't want to understand that we've agreed on an equal dialogue and that we haven't even made the only condition that we've put in place at the time, a real change to the law on pension and disability insurance has been consistently implemented. Not even that one. You've accepted everything else just to get here, probably already agreed between you, so it'll never come true. And that's a disaster. Then we're a weak link. We're the ones who make trouble, we do shame and stuff. There is no other way, so we insisted on this law, which, of course, we know is not consistently significant, for example, because it would worsen the allowance for maternity leave. But he sends such laws to the government's parliament. Then it is necessary to prepare a hundred or more supplements, or to remake the whole marriage, and then it crumbling. Like the law on patient rights. It's the way of this government coalition. The government can do stupid things and send bad marriages, we have soldiers there who will then faithfully and consistently correct them, as we will order when they have time. You send laws like this into coalition coordination. There's a proposal coming up, and it says, "You've got five days." Then comes the first change, the second change. Last year, a law came with 10 changes by the government. I wrote at the time: Send such laws when they are coordinated with the government, and then we will say our own. Not that I'm gonna reopen and look for changes and make up my mind. This is the way our coalition, our government and the preparation of our laws work. However, if there is an improvement in the law, which has three articles or two articles, with one or two amendments, this is a problem that requires immediate rejection and an end to the discussion. It's just a relationship, "fair play" by our partners and so on. I immediately repeat the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in all three points, which are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, were invalid, real, Mr Brenčič, and it is not true that pensions are consistent with salaries. You can amendment ten times, you said it today. No, I don't. They don't get widow's pensions either. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Don't get those with the highest pension, but fall right to the highest, to nothing, those with the highest don't get anything. [[...]] And even the annual allowance did not come true as it was written. We believe that our marriage must also be supported because we are not opposed to the same way of coordination, but not to the worse. Not as the Government has done in arguing that there should be the same mode of coordination for all, but also saved 20 million euros, which is interesting, 13.5 million from the pension fund. Where they wanted to take back last year and this year the drop of the better one, which was recognised in 2005 to pensioners. It is true that pensioners and DeSUS in this coalition contract receive nothing if this law continues to apply, because the security allowance is only 3.5 million, 10 million euros will still be at the loss of our pensioners under the Disability and Pension Insurance Act. And the problem is not just with the pensioners, we've frozen the rights of the sick. Those who lie on the deathbed and have the right to an allowance for assistance and service, social supporters who have nothing but social support. How will 3.4% solve their backstretch, only the government knows. They do not have large reserves to lend to the Government, which will give part of inflation after one year, only the difference between last year and this year, and will not really be the one who died in the meantime, is to blame and so on because it is not for bread. [[...]] The government hasn't thought about this since the summer. I haven't blinked with an interlocutor. Now some of the several laws would only solve certain elements of poverty in this country, so that before the elections she could brag about how she's spent so much or spent so much and so many millions of euros on so many laws, because it's good because she's the one who thinks about people and needs to be supported again. This is, for the first time, buying votes with state money, secondly, the wrong way. It is necessary to end this law and, with one stroke, to bring the poor back to what has been taken from them and to do the same coordination with the amendments and, of course, to see what else we can do to make this law drink water, to be able to support it with a calm conscience and with the awareness that we have done something good and that, finally, dear coalition partners, we have recognised for once that in DeSUS, we are not just stupid Members, that we have a heart and a soul, that we think about people that we have not forgotten them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word has a Member of Happy Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much. It's nice to hear honest words, even if you're always in the same jargon, and the speaker in front of me said basically one picture of the situation in the government. Look, it is incomprehensible to me that the Government, which boasts that it has a budget surplus, does not find enough money and good will to actually reconcile these social transfers that call for regulation. That's not the only problem. Today is the date when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can correct the injustice committed by the 13th. That's when she withdrew the proposal, and I think it's a good proposal that we have today again in reception and in thought. So non-chalant. On December 14, the press reported that this time the coalition is "crushing" because of social transfers. Workers who by honest work and failure actually contribute to the fact that we have a budget surplus today do not have the right to actually share surpluses in companies that in fact generate large profits. And they make these profits. They made these profits and they didn't. We do not allow them by law to participate in this profit and, of course, to correct their social and existential pitiful minimum. Why do we not have reason and obedience for those who ask us for reason? For those on the verge of survival. You wrote it yourself, the government party wrote it down that this 42% is at the edge of the poverty of the living. Why do we need to find the sharpest knife for farmers, workers, pensioners, the poor, the sick, and the children to cut off their rights? Right to survival. If this goes on, believe me, we'll get the law of the street. Today we silenced the unions by giving him a candy bar. This is also nothing compared to what economic experts predict. The growth of living costs is unstoppable, and inflation is also. Tomorrow this problem will be before the government again, and when we are done with the EU Presidency, the government will not want to hear about it. Like she didn't want it when it was cold and when it was the first strike wave. At that time, the president of the government even said, "We should choose a better time and not be cold." It is unreasonable that we actually boast in spite of how good and successful we are, but we do not know so much about social understanding and understanding of people who need help. But these are the parties in the government that are most understanding of these people. That's what they promised before! Janša’s client, however, came to power with the help of trade unions, who forgot about them today. She just forgot about them today. The Slovenian People's Party should be the first to defend such a population. Today, we hear that this marriage is not necessary. That's how you said you wouldn't support him. And if I'm talking about a ruling client who should've done it sooner, because it's too late today. All it is is squeezing and patching. I can tell you, if I understand anything in this country, the assessment will show up in the fall. And I think the elections for you are lost.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will personally support the proposed law of the DeSUS Group, and I will gladly support it. If we adopt today the Act on the Cessation of the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, we will abolish one of the biggest mistakes that the current Government has made in this mandate in the social field. And if we adopt today's law, put it in a second reading, I am sure that we will build a good social foundation and that we can somehow upgrade the law, correct it and, above all, that it will be in line with those people who are living today in some way the most difficult and the government has forgotten about them. The Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, which is being repealed by the proposed law, has led to the fact that social transfers have not been coordinated for two years. This, in a state in today's society, I am thinking mainly about encouraging the basic needs of life here, has caused many Slovenian families who have not earned it. In the Group of Social Democrats we have adopted the Law on Social Transfers, which was strongly opposed and highlighted by 26.10.2006 all the negative effects that can happen and arise. And look at the fraction. Everything we announced then really happened. But at the time, in most of the ruling coalition, we were marked to be social demagogues, to speak the language that people like, and I don't know what we're talking about to encourage inflation, but not all of these things have stimulated inflation, and inflation has stimulated anything other than these social transfers and the wall in the country is what it is. At that time, we have warned that the social state is on trial, and I say so even today. After a year and a half, after the adoption of that law, our warnings are confirmed in some way every day. We have warned the government all the time, as opposed to the questions raised by the Members, Mrs Majda Potrata, Mr Miran Potrč, and could also mention, we have pointed out people's problems every month, but nothing. But interestingly enough, the government is six months before the elections, and it's experienced some kind of renaissance, some kind of transformation, from the Reformation Government, and once again, it's become a social, once again social government that's willing to talk to social partners, unionists, and I don't know what else. And she quickly passed the Protection Supplement Act, the Parental Supplement Act, and she could also list it. This government is simply in a hurry in this mandate. However, there was also a hurry at the time of the adoption of this Act on Social Transfers on 26.10.2006. The law was adopted following an emergency procedure, although I am sure that it did not meet the conditions for hearing in the National Assembly at the time. Let me say that in 1998 the National Assembly adopted a decision recommending to any Government that, in all matters relating to social dialogue, such dialogue should also be carried out and then report to the social partners. However, the Government did not discuss the Social Transfers Act with the social partners at the time, nor did it establish social dialogue, since that did not seem to be the most important thing at the time. Another time. The content of the law, about social transfers, is also not consistent with his address. The actual objective of the law was not to harmonise transfers between individuals and households, but to set such common bases for coordination in order to achieve the country's macroeconomic and public financial objectives. Therefore, by reducing the volume of funds for the weakest layers in the country, savings will be made. Did that really save up? Today, the government, with these savings, gives and promises some populist measures and shares candy. And thirdly, I would say that the law that was introduced into the National Assembly had no real explanation, was not accompanied by any analysis, had no real assessment of the consequences and could even list it in accordance with all the laws, as already stated before me by my colleague, Franz Znidaršič. Let me get this straight. I will support the proposed DeSUS law, namely the Law on the Division of Laws on the Coordination of Social Transfers. I think it's a good basis for us to upgrade this law in our second reading. Of course, the basic law is not an ideal solution, but it seems to me that this may be a start, and it may also be a weaker layer in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. How do we understand fair invalidity in our country? If someone gets 100 euros for the exact same damage, someone else gets 1,000 euros. Can you tell me?Oh, my God! And that, on this basis, we have different coordination, instead of once a year, as is the case with each other, twice a year. Some are subject to baseline wages and others to average wages and others to a third to an increase in the cost of living. How will you respond to this reality? We need to talk about this, and the National Assembly will also have to discuss this. I'm glad we're talking about this today. Some data have been made available to the Slovenian public, what are these social transfers? It's usually a little demagogic. That they're the lowest. No, no, no. In this context, there are a number of other benefits that should not have the character of social benefits at all, but are only budgetary transfers. Can you tell those revenue from the budget, which is more than EUR 1000, which is over EUR 2000, social benefits? What can you tell those who have a salary of 400 euros? What's that? That's why it's very difficult to flatten everything. It is therefore wise and wise to hold a debate to analyse all these benefits and to see what they are based on insurance, which aims to improve the social situation or reduce poverty, so that that supplement is for normal survival and those benefits that have a merit. Now it's all mixed up. And for some, when you add all this up, you get an amount that is greater than the salary of the Prime Minister or the President of the State. At the expense of so-called social benefits. I don't want to put anything here demagogue, but let's make this a talk point. That it won't all be black and white. The harmonisation of transfers was different according to the old legislation. The Transfer Coordination Act has consolidated that everything is on the same month, that it is the same for everyone. Of course, we have to ask ourselves: Is that enough in the light of when we have high inflation? This is certainly not the case, so laws have been introduced to help the weak. And the amount given out of the budget for these purposes is higher than you mention, what the social supporters lost because of this law. Not to mention the reconciliation of pensions. Unfortunately, the government, even though we have repeatedly asked the question that it should give us how much does the new valorisation of pensions mean? What does that mean for pensioners? How much does this increase in budget expenditure mean? We didn't get that answer. But this amount is very large. At a time when the Pension Coordination Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act were amended, most opposition Members claimed that this was an attack on the budget, that it was an attack on finance and that it would destabilise the country. Dear colleagues, have you just been telling the truth? Whether you are telling the truth today or you were telling the truth then, you will have to decide. The fall of poverty. Poverty is one of the lowest in Europe, measured by international standards. But let this not be the basis for our complacency. There are still so many and so many citizens who are hard to survive. But social transfers should not be so high that those seeking employment or those who have a poorly paid job prefer not to work. That's what some citizens have warned us about. And these citizens, who receive 400 or 500 euros a month, rightly ask us how we control social transfers because they are taxpayers. Those who go to work every day and receive 500 euros wonder whether we are properly allocating these budgetary expenses, whether it is justified to give those who have 2,000 euros more. Yes, these are questions of justice. Where we saved up. Most of it was saved in those transfers I mentioned earlier. For if this was the way to coordinate, it was best known for those with the lowest transfers, in fact they were the most lost. Yeah, that's what math says. The one who convinces me that this is different will win the Nobel Prize. Then it's not about not knowing what Euclid's mathematics or anything, but it's about someone else. Marriage is inappropriate, primarily because it reduces family benefits. These are to be coordinated again on the basis of the starting wages, thus reducing the income of families who are on maternity leave who have parental compensation. This certainly is not the right way to reduce them in the current situation. That's why I won't support the marriage. Therefore, those who vote in favour of this law will also be in favour of reducing parental benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the following word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am now a little confused in view of the previous discussion and will immediately say that I reject, I am totally rejecting the arguments that are trying to justify the injustice caused by a few tens of thousands of people by this law. It is my intention to explain here the logic of solidarity that this solidarity should be carried out by those who are poor who do not have, but I really do not know where the logic is drawn or the vision that this country should have if this country is called social. That's why I'm going to serve because one of the words that you like to use in the coalition, especially in the largest client, is the basic political brickwork tool, the mudlide, I'm going to use, and today is just the appropriate one for these arguments that I've heard from the coalition. It's not at all a problem if you accidentally fall into the mud, that's why we fell into the mud in some way in October 2006. The problem and disaster is if you don't want to get out of this mud, but you keep sinking into this mud. And today we have before us a bill that corrects injustice, some kind of rudeness that has been done to people, however we turn things around, with those lowest revenues. Either there's 10 or there's 100 or there's 10,000, but I think like some of my colleagues and colleagues say, a few 10,000. It is therefore unacceptable that the Government continues to act in this coordination as a banker who has charged interest in this particular class of people with the lowest income during this inflationary period. And then the government's related praise, the government repeatedly, especially in November, December, even in last year's warning of an inflationary blow, even boasted that the surplus in the budget was at the expense of the same law that we are discussing today. So, at the expense of social transfers, the Government has collected this surplus, which it has in this budget. And with this surplus, even in this House, the President of the Government and, above all, the Minister of Finance boasted. It is only obvious that none of them wanted to do so, or really did not see that many people faced this inflationary blow, of course, faced unsustainable existential problems. And that's not good, that's not right, and it's not fair when we abuse the word equality before marriage. Today, this word of equality has been mentioned many times, and this is really about equality before marriage. All citizens from first to last, we are equal before this law. I will therefore support this bill as a good basis for further discussion and in some way warn and plead that all those who have other proposals and amendments, then in the second reading, will be corrected in further consideration by this basic proposal of the law. We can't fix the injustices we've done with this law. But we do have the opportunity not to drag this injustice to this year's end, for the inflationary blow will obviously not yet come to an end. Finally, what has already been said today, the Prime Minister of the Government warned us yesterday if we have any proposal to say it, and the Government will listen with great favor to this proposal and go against us. And I think that the proposal of this law is one of such proposals that the Government can go against and listen to.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, colleague and colleague! Increasingly, we have taken decisive action in the electoral year, that there are many demagogies, emotions, and great benefactors what we can do and what we can do. Some are so concerned about other parliamentary groups that they do not all apply, perhaps they could place enough space on their own before their own threshold, because they have a lot of junk that some colleagues have discussed before me and I think they have enough problems to leave others alone. According to the opposition, all this legislation is obviously invalid, is not valid, nothing is good and will always be worse, every session of the National Assembly until the elections will be worse. And there's nothing good about the government, this coalition, in short, everything sucks, everything's disabled. This is a modern expression now for some of the disadvantages of our legislation. The package of three laws that we passed in January was not invalid, because 62 Members voted in favour and none against, so one package was a good response to these events that you are now talking about, about the social strata of the population that is on the brink of poverty, which is living poorly, and this government has also responded to its best efforts to help those who are most in need. Today, with this support of this law, a whole host of other beneficiaries of this law would be affected. Again, it is not good to do one service, and to the fifth we break the services or reduce it, it is not good again, and this country is a social state, the Constitution is clearly speaking, and not least, 40 transfers and the benefits of such and other benefits that our citizens receive are not small. That's a big one. However, I believe that for a lot of citizens, it is not enough or at all enough. That's another story you probably agree with. And this area is sensitive, it's difficult, it's very slippery to say so, and I know that many of our citizens live truly on the edge, on this edge and on those benefits that they might even be entitled to, unfortunately they don't get for such and other reasons, and unfortunately there aren't a lot of them that are unjustifiable, but there are other benefits that they get. And this is my comment already made in this National Assembly and I will say again that I am sorry that we still do not have an analysis of all these social benefits and other transfers that our citizens receive from such and different addresses, from the censorship of work, the congregation, the institution, etc., and that Durs today does not know how many such and other benefits are received over the month. That's a fact. I hope today's technology, computer, should connect these systems and find out that today a person xy gets so many of these and different benefits. See, many citizens who are working today for salaries below EUR 400 are few in this Slovenia, and believe me, they also ask why this one and this one does not work, but lives relatively well. Perhaps it is justified, because perhaps even the fact that someone can take advantage of such and other opportunities is happening, I will say, the opportunities offered by the State and, therefore, by the unemployed person who is looking for a job so that he does not find it, and with these means and other means, it has been better for him. But unfortunately I have to say, a certain part is those who really walk on the edge and don't know how to get from month to month with the checkers and pay for everything that's required of him. And for the sake of some of the unjust, the poor get even less. I think it's time for this to happen and to press a person's button, the family gets a month from the state, the congregation, and so on, so on and so forth. Here's the key to the problem, I think, not so much about whether someone gets a little more or less. I think it would be right and fairer and more transparent to see these revenues given and received by the beneficiaries, whether they are justified or not. I say this in practical cases from life and practice, because I experience this and face such matters. Those who work hard and work hard at the standard sometimes lash their heads: Why is this the way it is? Why don't you have this arranged? Why isn't that more fair? This may also require some technological and other captures. I hope that this government will do so in order to provide a clearer overview of how to get to this data who is entitled and who is not entitled. Around poverty, it is probably already present in Slovenia. Comparability with the European Union - it is not so bad, and I believe that all these 40 transfers and benefits received by our citizens are likely to help them live a normal life. But it is true that we all want it, and I personally want it to be even more, for those persons who are even more justified and who get too little and sometimes do not come to an end. Support for this bill would certainly be. On the other hand, another distaste for those people who are receiving these things today, and I think that a poor service would be for all these many citizens who would surely overrun this bill of yours. This I do not think is right for the National Assembly, not for the government, and I think that we need to be understanding here also of those who do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much. To the word of Ambassador Anton Kokalja. [[He's not here.]] Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! I'll support the marriage. I will support the law because the law that was passed, and this is the Law on the Coordination of Transfers of Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, made a major methodological error. In Article 3, he said that all these transfers would be aligned once a year in January with the rise in prices of living needs in 2006 compared to 2005. And since inflation was lower than in 2005, due to the decline in inflation growth in 2006, the situation that we all knew, including government representatives, when you defended this text, was that there was no harmonisation. And that is why we have a situation that is unacceptable, that in a country that we call a social state under the Constitution, 24 months, almost 24, 25 months, there is no harmonisation of social transfers. And to boast of the budgetary surplus when we have zero growth in transfers of individuals and households and we have at the same time a 20% increase in material costs in 2007, or when the government predicts almost 20% of the increase in material costs again in 2008, a 30% increase in investment and at the same time a 1 to 2% increase in social transfers is simply not possible. Therefore, the fundamental question that we are discussing in this law is: Will the government intervene and correct in the law, in Article 3, the misalignment of social transfers? If the government were correct and respected at least the international comparisons that were known, then it should follow that the alignment, given the actual cost of living, would not be the difference between the two, as is called relative figures. I therefore consider that this law should be considered appropriate in the first reading and that it should be amended in the second reading, including the title. And add to it an appropriate content, which is a alignment with, for example, the formula that will align to actual cost-of-living growth. Interestingly, it is evident from the document that in the law we adopted in this State Assembly following an emergency procedure, and then opposed by members of the opposition, the social partners also objected. That's how the unions, the employers, denied it. Finally, because of these pressures, there have been so many more people at the recent November demonstrations, because people, when they earn less and less of the value of various transfers, of course their net available family income is shrinking. It's getting smaller. And so it would be good for the ruling coalition, not because of the election result of the fall, but to help people now, to support this proposal. Just as it would have been possible a few days ago at an extraordinary meeting to accept the possibility of so-called aid by reducing the income requirement for all those who already have up to €6,900 for 2007, if that is what they would have wanted. Not that all you are proposing are some minimal measures that mitigate the consequences of inflation. However, they do not eliminate the fundamental misrepresentations in this society, which, of course, can be quoted with that already known river that only the poor in Slovenia are becoming poorer. Slovenia is a social state and in the state budget we have the resources to do so. And it is impossible to agree that if the revenue of the state budget increases by 10%, 11% per year, as envisaged for 2008 for example, that social transfers should increase by just one or two percent, or even as we have the situation now confirmed, for 2007, we have real budget growth, that is to say, roughly in nominal GDP growth, inflation 5.7 or an average of over 3.7 times GDP growth, that is, over 10% of nominal GDP growth, that is, so much income and zero growth, so negative real growth in social transfers. This simply does not work together and, of course, it only lasts for a little while, until people simply start to point out this also with the November demonstrations. Slovenia was characterised by the fact that it has succeeded all the time since its independence in some social dialogue to coordinate relations between those who have and those who have less and are in need of assistance. We have had different methods of coordinating social or other transfers, namely, this formal transfers to individuals and households, in this mandate you have made it quick, because I don't know what reasons - whether it was a stability programme or whether these were Bajuk's budgetary constraints, but very quickly you fixed it and the consequences here are increasingly difficult the situation of 1,000 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore right to support the law in the first reading today, allowing us to correct the formula in the second reading and to go into different coordination. There is another very important opportunity. The government has announced a rebalancing of the state budget for 2008. It is therefore possible to ensure that this law would be in force in 2008 at the same time as the adoption of the balance. That's possible. We will have a balance and, of course, the balance of the budget must ensure that it can ensure, if such a will of the coalition, better coordination of social assistance already in 2008. Therefore, there is no need, even as colleagues were forced to transpose this law in 2009 due to known internal procedures in the National Assembly. The 2008 budget will be rebalanced. So we can put this into effect already in 2008. If it's political will. And this isn't about the opposition suggesting that you don't do this now, so that the voters will punish you in the fall. Here we as the opposition propose that we do this now, because it is good for citizens and citizens. Of course, it will be necessary at material costs and where else to reduce. But of course it is not a matter of a fifth to increase material costs and to have zero growth in social transfers. This is not possible in any normal society, at least in a just society, at least in social society. That is why, of course, I propose to the representatives of the government and the coalition to support this. And one last thought. According to the documents provided by the applicants, this case affects tens of thousands. And look at the cynicism of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken this opportunity to present this to the Slovenian public, all fighting eight minutes. In eight minutes you will do the will, with the rights of ten thousand, one hundred thousand citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's cynicism. At least we would take more time and we would like to boast, and of course, Madam Secretary of State, it is not your fault. This case came before you were appointed to the National Assembly before you were appointed. And of course, cynicism is that the Prime Minister of the Government, the Government has not taken any more time to explain to these people, of course, that good results in 2007, are a budgetary surplus and so on, because people have not received harmonisation of social transfers. That is also why it is right to fix this for 2008 at least. Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor. He's not here. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Given that the Government expected that one of the coalition parties would not insist on asking for a debate on this law and has, since December, prepared some corrections after an emergency procedure, which have already had a very strong impact on the social status of individuals and individuals in Slovenian society. Of course, the insistence of DeSUS is certainly commendable, so that we can discuss these content today. Because in 2006, a deep debate could not be held. It could not be done for a simple reason because the Government did not provide such desirable information as to how the consequences of changes in the coordination of transfers would then affect the lives of individuals. Of course, when I listened to the debate today, of course it is necessary to ask what goal the Government had then pursued in 2006. If we read the statements of then Minister Drobnik, it is explicit that the aim of the proposed law is not to reduce social transfers, but to ensure a uniform way of harmonising all types of aid with the growth of living costs, which means that everyone will maintain an irreversible standard of living. So it's an unturned standard of living. Today, we are witnessing, to many individuals and individuals, the standard of living has changed, and has often become worse. If the ruling coalition had other objectives, it would, of course, be necessary to identify them and make them clear. I could agree with my colleague, Jace, that, of course, there is no interest in anyone in this National Assembly to support those who do not want to work and want to live on social transfers, that this must be prevented. But the purpose of the law in 2006 was not this and even today the applicants do not have this objective, but the drafters of this law want to have a clear picture. A clear picture, Comrade Petty Officer, which you should have done when you proposed this law. Of course, we didn't believe you at the time, because it's impossible on the one hand to understand the financial consequences that went into millions of euros at the same time to say that no one will lower living standards. Comrade Petty Officer, this is not possible mathematically. Two minus one has never been three. And if you knew at the time that the financial consequences of the reduction of transfers would be, how can you say in the same breath that the sole objective is uniform coordination and that no one will be reduced to a standard of living? And if we want a debate to take place on what we were unable to discuss in 2006, it is logical, of course, to support this law and to upgrade it with all the necessary information that is necessary. I agree here with my colleague Squeak, who says how visual the information is about how little time the Government took, but I think that eight minutes did not want the government in this law, but she only wanted to take three minutes, because five minutes at the end belongs to the proposer, which is not the Government. So 3 minutes to coordinate transfers involving more than 100,000 people. We have no analysis, no data, and the government shows interest in three minutes. I'm not gonna say whether it's cynicism or anything. However, there is definitely an attitude to these issues. I wasn't surprised you came up with such a bill in most of the coalition, why not? Let us just remember the valuable judgments that we have been able to follow through the various debates, under different laws, through this Parliament. People who don't get a job are part-timers, so they have to take certain rights. People who are sick and sick are, of course, using their disease to prevent them from working. We were able to hear this through various debates and various proposals for laws. Of course, here we have warned that the approach is not the right one. If we want to identify those who want to live on social transfers instead of work, then let us take measures in this direction. And I'm sure you'll have the support of both the coalition and the opposition. However, when it comes to budget savings, it is necessary to make it clear to whose account. And at that time, we made it clear that the measures go by opening the scissors. Tax legislation gives more to the rich, harmonisation of transfers gives less to the poor. And here we have pointed out that scissors are spreading and that there is an increase in income inequality, which is coming, which will lead to a higher poverty threshold in Slovenia and thus question the attitude of the social state in the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, you did not want to hear this, nor do you want to hear it today, to discuss it and to follow the case as to the objective of uniting the coordination of social transfers, to look for those who do not want to work according to their capabilities and to live unjustifiably on social transfers, we find appropriate measures, but not in such a way as to introduce laws by a majority vote in the National Assembly, which then have an unloving effect on citizens and citizens. That is why I do not assess that the adoption of this law was a mistake, but a conscious policy of the majority in this government coalition. Here I would like to draw attention to another manner of this government, which, with certain laws, violates rights in the field of other laws. There is a great deal of this government's behaviour, and if you speak today in the government's position that if we go back in the previous way of coordination, it will only be for a health-care fund increase of expenditure for patients over €14 million. I wonder whether the independence of this cash register or whether the government can hack into this cash register with any change in the law. We have done this in the field of the transfer of specialisation and traineeship obligations, and we have also done this through this law and ideas on how to monitor this cash register, including this bag of money not for health purposes, but for the interests of a certain government structure, we can also expect it through proposals for new legislation, that is, amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act. That's not right. And the way the government regulates it isn't right. These are the warnings we would like to draw attention to when we can discuss this further. It is not of interest that today would only be with [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] that this is an inadequate basis for the law for further consideration concluded this debate. This debate will continue, and we all want those points spoken of by Comrade Drobnic, to be put on the table, to be addressed by the government and to respond specifically to all the elements, positive and negative elements that this law has brought. And if we don't talk about it, of course, this way we're not going to get to these points and we're going to come up with certain measures that are really going to have a sense of at least pre-election measures, not systemic resolution. How to understand the proposal for a law on the provision of student nutrition, but if we, through all this mandate with the amendments, have proposed that items be increased here, the government coalition has rejected this. Today, however, we are talking about waiting for economic growth, so that we can introduce this, but only with the school year 2009-2010. I will not talk about the same case as we will talk about the exemption for voluntary health insurance, which we also planned for the second half of 2008. Here, too, all the criteria of the current conduct of the National Assembly fall. What's chicken or egg before? Should we first provide funds in the budget and then adopt the law? Is there a need for law first in order to be able to provide budgetary resources? This is a case-by-case case, according to the needs of this ruling coalition, which is not right, because all of these decisions are people behind us and we have bigger or smaller consequences. That is why I propose that we join in supporting this law and have a serious debate on all these aspects that could not be discussed in 2006. However, this is an ongoing problem, it is a very important problem and we need to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. I, my dear colleagues and fellow Members, have always been having a hard time cheating, and I have also had great desires for what populism I haven't had since I've been in this house. Therefore, I say that the proposal for this law is practically a poor basis for its upgrading in one article. For both with the title and with the same article practically legal system and nomotechically closes the way for every serious upgrade. However, I was certainly one of those Members, who we had long ago advocated that it was not wise to approach the issue of coordination of social transfers in a uniform way, because every law that has passed a certain transfer also had its purpose, why this transfer is so coordinated. That is why I would be much more in favour of this, and I have also proposed to the Minister that we decide to amend the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers in advance. However, since the law filed by the Dessus Group was on the way, the question was how to do so. However, if we had decided to do so, with a good purpose to have two laws in place following an urgent procedure, we would, of course, consider this matter an integrated treatment in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In this case, it would also be most appropriate to resolve those weaknesses that have been brought about by the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers. Otherwise, the following must be said because we like to change. Most of these 32 transfers were made on the basis of legal matter also in previous governments. And then we said that most of these were being coordinated so that if the starting point was what it was when the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers was created, this coordination would be null. As was null in that year before the adoption of the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers. No one predicted such a high and steady rise in inflation or the cost of living. In any event, however, much of the transfers that we are coordinating now in view of this terrible growth this year are unfavourable for the starting point, since we are coordinating in February compared to growth 2007, 2006 will be less sensitive to this coordination than people are experiencing irritation. But in any case, much better than some other transfers, which have been coordinated so as not to harmonise at all, would be linked to one or the other starting point. So it is not entirely right just to display this approach negatively. A fundamental error in this law was what I kept saying because we entered the system of pension and disability insurance with this law uncontrolledly or unrestrainedly. And we have built the sustainability of some benefits only on the basis of work, only on the basis of the insurance period, because it would be practically impossible for these people to survive, we have put in place some transfers that the country must provide through its budget as a country that is concerned with the social sustainability of its people. It was a fundamental mistake. And that, look, is not the question of an annual supplement. The annual allowance is something completely different, such as a protective supplement, something else entirely, if we are correct. And also, look, a lot of actively employed people starting with Mura -- I don't know how they're going to do it this year -- won't get an annual supplement, or they'll get a smaller one and in two or three "wars". But you know, a lot of these people who are actively employed will not have the salary growth they've achieved in the conversation between the economic and social partners. Their predecessors in Mura, in the same workplace, will be able to make their pension well beyond their salary because they have not been in line for almost three years. In this is my point and my question: Is the system of coordination really that fair? Far from allowing and wanting pensioners, we have a whole series of the life stories of our citizens and citizens ahead of us. That is why I also argue that the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers is welcome in many ways. But the worst part is he cut off where he shouldn't have. And it was a shame that we did not at that time gather enough wisdom to somehow overcome. It is also unfair to say what we are saying on a flat-rate basis and to receive invalidity and any other transfers, as much as the President of the State is paying. I don't know if that's right. And that's what the former minister who was last called to try [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Eliminate, from the right attitude towards equality of citizens before the law and also before the state budget. [[...]] After all, we have adopted the Single Maternal Record Act; I think it is somehow called that; which was the basis for the central collection of all this data. And that information must be recorded. As far as disability and this is concerned, it's true when [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and upon extensive requests that this should not be a harmonised or updated list of physical impairments from 1983 onwards. [[...]] Therefore, the recognition of individual invalids is unfair and unfair in view of the current medical expertise, as well as the evaluation of defects, entirely from a different perspective. So it seems to me that a little more correctness can be used. I also think it's a shame that someone is attacking a human client who said that this marriage is such a foundation that we won't support it. And we really can't support her. To just delete it. We can revise the rules of procedure a little bit, and we'll balance something out. But the key elements, the bad elements that this law has brought, we have eliminated. Key. Maybe it's just a disability. You know, the allowance for help and service needs to be understood differently. This supplement is thus given to pensioners and would be coordinated for the same purpose as pensions, and it is also received by many others who are entitled to it and will be better coordinated. Again, it is incorrect and, on the one hand, discriminatory relations between recipients. So, of course, from this title, we want not to eliminate the good purpose or the good results that this law has brought to us to simply delete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Representative of the Government, Ambassadors and Members present. I must say that, of course, I do not know this area as well as my colleague Brenčič, who is the chairman of the committee and has now explained to us, as chairman of the committee, that we understand it better. But somehow in this proposal submitted by our coalition partner, the party DeSUS understood that this is really a lot of pre-election performance and somehow the election campaign in Slovenia, unfortunately, has already begun, although it is still very far away. When I listen to Members, particularly of the SD, I must say that they are actually themselves - and I am also responsible to Mr Squill - that they have actually commended the Government themselves, so that the government does not need to boast at this time. They listed what the Government had already done in this social field, but at the same time they referred to it as some pre-election candy. But it is not true, the government has taken a series of measures, but in those areas where it was necessary. In the previous emergency session, children's allowances were raised, then the income burden was reduced and, if necessary, other measures, of course. The valorisation of all social transfers also took place in January. And even if Mr. Squeakl may indeed be the future finance minister - I say this about the magnetogram - this law, which is here today, will not be passed on to the public. It will not address the lack of coordination between different social transfers in the same way and on time at the same time. What we had before 1.1.2007 was actually an unsustainable situation. See, some transfers have been aligned with average wages, some with baseline salaries, some with the lowest pension base, some with annual increases in living costs and so on. Brenčič, though, said that all of this was likely, when laws were adopted, for some purpose, one of his own arguments. But it also coincided with different annual dates in different months. How much red tape works, how much administrative waste time, money, and all of this means coordination! And if there is anything left in what area, what kind of social transfer is too low, then it is better to fix and raise that social transfer than to repeal the law that brought all social transfers into line once a year in the same way as if this law had not been introduced, the government would have already proposed a law whereby this would be coordinated twice a year, as the Minister of Labour has promised, but this law is now somehow blocking the continuation of this procedure. And when I listen to the opposition MPs, I feel like they're somehow suffering, that the government is adopting some kind of law. They're referring to the Student Diet Act. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I was an opposition Member of the previous term. Twice this law has been proposed, twice you have had the opportunity to confirm it, to determine the time when it would begin to be implemented, even in the time of another government, but twice you have rejected it in this House. You had a majority, and you turned him down. To invest in the field of telephony, just to remind you, the citizens went to the referendum. Now, during this period of government, these great millions are returning to the people. Are you going to say that's not true, either? Of course it is, because people are getting these funds that you didn't want to give and that's why you had to go to the referendum. And more of those, I'd say, were here. Because my friend Mikolitch has no word, and I'll say it for him. Kolga Kontič mentioned that he had come to his Member's office a pensioner who paid his pension in Croatia. In 2007, Croatian pensioners received a regress, aid and service allowance; he said that not that this party in his office told him not to. This year we have also arranged a protective supplement, here in Parliament we have adopted this law. Apparently, he was there, and he doesn't even know it. And if I wanted to give the person who came to his office the right information and the right information, I should refer him to the place where he was supposed to play the role, that he would then be entitled to it, but not that he was somehow pointing his finger at the government, to the ruling coalition, talking about the injustices, and at the same time admits that it was a great injustice that the previous government did not remove, but that guilt went away in this mandate. I know that my colleague Mikolič has worked hard to do this, and he also tells himself how much he has in his congregation of Croatian pensioners or those who have paid pensions outside the Republic of Slovenia. So, I believe myself, my fellow Members, that this government coalition will do quite a bit in line with the needs of the end of this mandate to mitigate what you are inflating. You keep talking about this inflation, and with this constant talk, you help yourself to maintain and inspire it. No one could expect more inflation in Slovenia than within the European Union another year ago, as it was not expected within the European Union. The facts are just what they are. And you, Comrade Squeakl, if you're warning me to remind you again, but you can read the magnetograms, you were one of those who was very strong -- and your client today who belongs -- completely against the fact that pensions are aligned with the growth of wages. What you didn't say at the time! Today, after three years of not talking about it anymore, but you have found some other topics, now most of you talk about inflation and I will tell you once again that even when you talk so much about inflation, you help to generate it and the state to cause it as it is, despite the efforts of the Government and many, to ease this situation in this area, you will be pleased and that we will somehow overcome this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you. Replica, please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u180	Let me tell Mr. Honourable Ambassador Sok the following. Even if we don't talk about inflation, inflation won't be lower. If you read the Saturday annex of Del, an article by Mr. Secretary, you will see that he described inflation very well. Inflation is like a pimple on the skin of a teenager, a teenager, the external reason is that aggregate demand generated by government policy, debt and so on is simply too high. And the mission of the opposition is to alert it. We've been alerting that in time. In October 2005, when we changed the 2006 budget and you decided that, as in 2005, even in 2006 and that we were also working on the 2007 budget, we said that this would have major negative effects. The result is well known today. If at the end of December 2004, we were all in charge of about €6,500 each, we are today for €17,000. More than 110% of us in the Republic of Slovenia, in the two-and-a-half years of the government's mandate, increased gross indebtedness. The gross external debt increased once again; at the end of December 2004, it was 15.3 billion, and in October 2007, it was 31 billion euros. This increases aggregate demand. And when money is too much, prices go up. It's like the market. When the demand for salad is high, each bumper raises the price. So say we don't talk about inflation, and inflation won't, it's just not true. It is correct, however, that the opposition cautions the Government that it is making mistakes, as the government first warned the trade unions at the demonstrations when it broke down - when they wanted to propose a single tax rate and the idea of a single tax rate ended at these demonstrations. Therefore, Commissioner Sok, this needs to be talked about and a corrective anti-inflation programme should be prepared with measures rather than with some mitigation. This measure would help greatly if you supported the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you very much, President. The law proposed by colleagues from the DeSUS Group will be supported mainly because of the specificity of the moment in which we propose and accept it. If inflation in Slovenia were not such, and if, for example, in the media, there were no such articles as: "On tons of food and clothing for the impoverished Ljubljana people, Karitas distributed thousands of new gifts, 20 tonnes more food also the Red Cross," then my reflection would be different and I would fully join the debate that Mr. Brenčič had earlier, no doubt an indisputable acquaintance of this area. However, with exceptional economic growth and increasing inflation, we are grateful that we will save seven billion euros this year, sixteen billion in 2008, and as many as twenty-five billion euros in 2009, and that, of course, something is wrong with this and that the most need for assistance is needed. This is, of course, one side of the medal and one side of the truth. The second is that it is high time someone made order in these social transfers. The former Minister, Mr Petty Officer, may have overreacted a little earlier. However, I am aware of the fact and countless such cases in practice that those workers in Pek, Cablex and others, who earn 400, 500 euros a month, are paying social transfers contributions to those who are at the top of their powers. At 25, 26 years of age, they don't want to work because it's not worth it. I have already mentioned the case of a young woman who receives €320 of social assistance, €181 of documents, has a free kindergarten, requires subsidised rent. I said, "What about the job? Are you going to work?" "Yes," she said, "the mayor, if I go to work, I'm gonna lose all this." And if you hear that answer, then there's no doubt what the position is saying right now, right and right, and the matter needs to be rectified. That someone who is capable, healthy, is looking for systematic holes in this legislation and that there are three, four, five or even more social aids. In this way, it will simply not work because it is unfair and unfair. Perhaps this DeSUS solution is appropriate for this moment, for this time. However, if we want to solve the problems ahead, there will no doubt be much more to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Although I am not familiar with economics and inflation, as Mr. Cwickl does, the economists I read say that inflation should be discussed as little as possible if we want things to calm down, and that the problem is not in the country's debt, but also in the large loans that our banks give to managers' buyouts. But I'd rather talk about the marriage we're talking about today. Until 1 January 2007, when the Act on the coordination of social transfers or transfers to individuals and households financed from public finances entered into force, these transfers were coordinated differently. As has been said several times, by then most transfers had been coordinated once a year, some twice, some monthly. In some cases, calculations were made, sometimes not done, or once a year, several times a year and so on. We wanted to harmonise transfers, that is, to set up a system to align transfers arising from rights, from work, with wage growth, and transfers related to the cost of living to the increase in living costs. This seems most fair to us, as we have placed beneficiaries of individual transfers in an unequal social position. Some, as it is said, have coordinated several times a year, another time. Thus, we have legislated solutions that have been applied in a uniform and transparent way, and in our view this is the right thing to do. The reasons why this was different had already been said several times before, so transfers were regulated in different laws that changed several times in different periods. Many of you have talked about the degree of poverty or poverty. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia says that in Slovenia we use the relative concept to set the poverty threshold and calculate the rates of poverty, which means we do not measure absolute poverty, but we measure poverty or measure inequality within the population. This concept just shows us how much of the population has a significantly lower income relative to the average value of income in the country. A number of you have claimed that the rate of poverty is increasing, although in recent years we have been recording exactly the opposite trend. 8 years ago, the poverty rate was 14% in 2004, 12, now we're talking 11%. If you have other information, you will have to give it to us, but for now I believe the data prepared by the Statistical Office and others for this authorised institution in this country. More poverty is between the unemployed and the inactive, and if the government wants to fight this and do something to keep as few people as possible on the brink of poverty or to live below the poverty threshold, that is, over the poverty threshold, then it must ensure that as many people as possible are employed. And there's been a lot going on here, both in hiring people with disabilities and with other employees. The data that talks about this - so, I think most people are much more satisfied that they are employed than they are recipients of social assistance. Therefore, it is certainly important to state that we have allocated 62,000 cash aid in 2005 and 54,000 in 2006 and 42,000 in 2007. This means that these people received higher incomes or had a better condition, so they no longer received money, which means that they were hired. And we should look forward to this because I am sure that they are much more satisfied with their wages than they were when they received money. When you talk about saving, or how much we have saved, since the law has been in force, the minister has said several times that we have saved mainly in sick or sick people, where many anomalies have occurred. You know, the sick people have been coordinated monthly, and even the longer patients have received more hospitals than they would have received. This probably isn't very stimulating for you to go back to work on your sick leave. For most transfers, the change was positive, some have already been listed, and they are better coordinated than they had previously agreed, or the recipients get more. However, worse or worse, we have actually foreseen everything together in the protective supplement, which, as has already been said, we have agreed at the beginning of this month. That is why I find it difficult to accept the claim of colleagues and colleagues that a great injustice has been committed. I am convinced that the law has regulated certain things in a transparent manner, as we have repeatedly said that social or transfers must be coordinated, so that we can also monitor and review them. And as I always say, if you have a marriage, you can always fix it and improve it, but if you don't have it, then we agree again to coordinate by different concepts, by different methods, in different time periods, which were not the most fair. Therefore, the law proposed by DeSUS cannot be supported, and I think it is better that we do something else on the law in force if we believe that things are not going as well as they should.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to all of you who are still following this session! I've been listening all day, not just all day, for quite some time, for months, to creating more and more poor people, along with those who are in the coalition; how the country has forgotten those who are the poorest who live the hardest. However, I think it has only been a week since we discussed these issues and voted on by all of us in this House, when we passed the law on a protective allowance, on a change in income that is not to be paid or reduced by those who have the lowest income, and on the occasion of an increase in the child allowance together by 12% or together of these three things by around 100 million euros. So, this is for those who are the poorest. However, I agree with my colleague Saiovic that it is necessary to make order in social transfers, that it is missing, no matter what register we have established, that there is no transparency, transparency, how many social benefits someone receives and that many times social transfers do not stimulate people to take hold of work, which is unfortunately underpaid in industry as well as in public administration and elsewhere. Social transfers, by my logic, are those transfers that are intended for people who receive low incomes with wages, a pension that cannot normally live properly. In Slovenia, there are four hundred thousand people, according to income, and about forty social transfers. This means that we are a very social country. I agree that it is necessary to look at a number of social transfer arrangements, to harmonise. Before we went to the government, we also said that we would arrange such anomalies as, for the same condition, for the same condition - let's say, for the service, someone gets, say, 300 euros, because he's immobile and he needs constant assistance and care, and someone with some rights from 60 years ago gets a few times thousands and more euros. Here we are not talking about the pension he has, they both earned a pension on the basis of work or certain merit, but this is essentially about social transfer and we should do it here, but we didn't have the power or the votes in the coalition that we could also arrange here. And maybe there will be someone else who really needs it, who has low incomes, which is so-called poor in this country. We will not support this law in Novi Slovenija even because of this, although my colleague repeatedly says it is not true, but in the Government they wrote that maternity benefits under this law would be reduced and if this law, which DeSUS proposed, would increase by only half the cost of living. Of course, not all those or all those 20,000 who currently benefit from these parental rights or maternity benefits would be happy. So, I will not support this proposed law, but I am not saying that it is not necessary to review and harmonise social transfers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I had hoped that the explanations we had also given by our parliamentary group to support the proposed law tabled by DeSUS were as logical and acceptable as possible. The more I listen to the second part of the debate, the more I see that this is probably not the case, so I will briefly repeat my view on this proposal. First, respectable colleagues and colleagues. The reference to the 14 days ago adopted laws has at least two aspects. We also agree that it is good that we have accepted them, so we voted for them. Just to say that this was done with a lot of consciousness in the coalition, but not under pressure of movement and inflation, but also unobjective. Without this transfer law, at least as regards the coordination of pensions, protective allowances, including widow's pensions and perhaps anything else, laws would not be necessary. Now it was necessary to accept them. So please don't take this as a big credit. It is good that it has been done, but not as the help that the Government has given out of some conviction, but from the tribulation in which we all found ourselves. The same applies to the continuation. Today, it is nice to promise that you will continue to examine what may have to be done. I'm just afraid you're running out of time. And I think that for people who might still be in trouble, and in my opinion they are, such a promise means nothing. The claim that you are trying to say between the lines that voting for the law would constitute a deterioration of the position of anyone is indeed extremely incorrect. All day long - I have said too much - three, four hours talking about how we want to ensure that, with the change in the law, even those categories that are now being deprived are not, if we find together that this is unfounded and we want to see that we want to reduce rights, that is really double. Let's listen and sometimes you'll feel embarrassed about what you're saying. What do I think we should do? It should be noted that where there is once an annual coordination that you have now established for all rights, in inflation, which is five percent and so much, it means that those who have the right to social transfer are waiting for a year and the other benefits are changing. If this seems right for those who have 100, 200, 300 and a few more then total revenue, I think it is incorrect and that it is simply difficult for those who have 100 euros, even for 5 euros, to wait because they can barely finish. Therefore, it would be appropriate to look again at whether they are between these categories of coordination group that would deserve not to be coordinated with them in this way, but to coordinate against what was sometimes the case with some, or to coordinate at least several times a year, or to change some basis. I will not argue that we have an answer for all, only this would be the right thing to do, otherwise admit that there is a relative backlog. It exists from month to month and then exists from year to year. For this reason, once such a delay has been corrected once a year, it is again lagging behind in the following year. And I think that might be a good idea to take a look. And the last thing I would like to say may be the problem with how to regulate the legislative process of the proposed law. Only if we have, very unfairly - this will be, I hope, also my colleague Brenčič, who acknowledged - by law on transfers in one article, have I not changed how many, 37 articles of many laws, if this was not more violence against the legislative procedure, than if today we found that in some cases we are repealing the law, but in some cases we are changing the way of coordination, and this would be settled in one article, too. Therefore, it is also a matter of good will, not just whether something is possible or not. Once again, I would like this Government to be ready and able to assess whether there are any other social transfers where the way of coordination causes a difficult social situation for individual categories of people. If she assures us that she doesn't have it in her mind, then at least she'll say, "No, it's all going well enough." And we're happy with that. Tell him to say it! I'm saying there's no such situation and there should be a correction. And only the last. I am not saying that solving these issues is easy. It's very difficult. Comparisons are not simple, large amounts of resources and so on. It's just, the simplifications that I love to hear so much that people don't want to work because they get social transfers, and I only miss one thing. To be told at some point, it may not be worth their while because they are underpaid. Somewhere we could go, say, in Mura last time we looked, the average is moving for Murina's workers about 400 euros, we probably don't think that's too much. I don't believe anyone like that. In short, wages are too low, but not that social transfers are too high. I hope that we will just think about it before the final decision and give the opportunity to change the law accordingly in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That memory was lost so quickly, I couldn't even think. In fact, I must recall once again the time when the government and this Parliament were barely doing well when we discussed pensions in this room for the first time, when our respected fellow pensioners were saying how the law, which was passed in 2000, if I am not mistaken, caused the fall of pensions and these pensions fell year after year, so that we have already found that the difference for one and a half pensions is already one and a half. But, Your Honor, we don't even want to say it or admit it, but this was the case. Right from the start, we were correcting a mistake that, if we didn't fix it, I wonder where we would be today. Indeed, the pensioners should go on the road, not for solidarity, but for their reasons. And nobody wants to admit it today. However, the second thing that has been going on, and I think that ever since our country also assumed all its obligations from the former republics, is what has been said here today, but it is the law on social security for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to pensions from the former SFRY republics. I was at one of the first meetings, where I attended as a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I was deeply surprised that so the social state and so social governments that were before ours, which, according to these words, were not social - according to you - could not equalize the pensioners from the former republics of the former Yugoslavia who had actually suffered with their pensions who had come to the committee themselves and told their problems and were not so strong, so willing to eliminate this injustice. In fact, until this government, we did not afford them an allowance for help and service and an annual allowance. In short, to align these two supplements with the supplements that our pensioners receive. So that's how we talk about how we're social, how we feel. This problem had to be solved by this government. That the Government is not as insensitive as we have heard today, I can certainly prove it with the changes that we have adopted at the last extraordinary session, such as the Income Law, where the lowest layers, those that are necessary and nothing more have actually been acquired. Although some proposals have been put forward again in this National Assembly, according to some other proposals, where this government's purpose to address social threats would have been prevented. But we held on, the law was passed. The Act on the Coordination of Transfers has indeed had, I will say, a mistake and this is a mistake of a protective supplement, which the Government has just recognized and tabled, not a correction of this law, but a new Law on the Protection Supplement, where the limit amount was raised to 81.6% of the lowest pension base. This solved the biggest problem of this law. And I think that all the other regulations in the law are appropriate, and I can also argue that they are better than those who were before. When I drove to work today, I listened on the radio Ljubljana to how the journalist asked, I mean, the head of the students about their student diet. I must say that the student representative commended him very much for coordinating the amount of student nutrition, and there was no speech that was not large enough that he was not tall enough to not cover the costs that students have with their diet. Which means that in this segment, the law has achieved its purpose. Other transfers, such as child allowances, have increased by 8.4% in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, which was also adopted at this extraordinary meeting, and this increased base is still aligned with 3.6%. As a result, children's supplements, which are most benefitted by the socially weak layers, will be increased and will help to alleviate the situation that has arisen in the economy. Inflation is also talked about as if this inflation occurred within one month, and now I don't know which one, at 5.6%, but no one is saying that this inflation has grown 5.6% throughout 2007. The result is inflation, as it is. Even the best companies that have tried to track inflation growth and which have increased wages in line with the growth of living costs have not increased this rate every month by the percentage or half that inflation has been, but have generally decided somewhere towards the end of the year, when it can already be sufficiently precise about what inflation will be, and have appropriately increased wages. That is why we cannot expect to increase social transfers, which, I don't know, every month on the way or as far as we think they are too low and just need to be repaired. I think that the intention of this law was to create order in the field of social transfers, to simplify matters and, above all, to ensure transparency and transparency. This, I think, has achieved this law; with the corrections we have adopted at the previous extraordinary session, I think we have solved those problems that may have been slightly overlooked in this law. I find that this action, which has been caused by our colleagues, is "soler", inappropriate and I think - I cannot say otherwise, as such - pre-election. Unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u191	Thank you. It's time for the proposal. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. You can view our marriage as a pre-election move, but we didn't think of it. We were thinking of an estimated EUR 25 million a heavy savings from this law, which the Government has informed us this year that such savings mean this law. Indeed, the Protection Supplement Act has been adopted, which weighs about EUR 4 million. And family benefits when it comes to child support, for example, 300,000 poor pensioners are not concerned. The same tax reliefs, which were adopted by amending the Income Act, are not. Thus, the return to a different coordination of the protection allowance and the solution to this problem remains positive, but the projected savings remain also for the poor, not only for those who have the highest pensions. It is important to know that 16,500 of those with pensions up to EUR 369 lost a higher annual allowance, 150 euros losing those, perhaps because of one euro of the excesses that it separates. Of course, I reiterate that we would not even have this law on my table today if the Government told me how it would deal with others. It is not true that they should remain diseased frozen, as they are called. Why is that? Diseases are insurance rights that people pay to get that 80% plus valorisation. Because if the salary is higher, there are also more contributions and the disease must also be higher, this is the principle of insurance and - the end. The same applies to rights under the law on pension and disability insurance. With this, of course, that I would never vote against the proposal that up to a certain limit, up to a certain amount of social transfers, be reconciled, say, with wages, and from there on with inflation, because those from there would not be affected in such situations as now when it comes to incentives and high levels of inflation. We have an opportunity to put into law a series of corrections to remedy the damage that the Government itself has admitted to being caused by this law, which was passed in autumn 2006, but we cannot agree on that. Of course, we welcome all the government's interventions into the system of improving the rights of those people who are in distress, but the government has been behind for seven months on these measures, and now it is boasting a great deal. That's positive, but it was late. It is impossible to give back to the one who has already died, a higher allowance for help and service, but is powerless, immobile, sick that he does not know what is happening to him, and we have frozen his right. It is not true that these rights are protected by this law that has been passed. Nor is it true, and I will say this to all of you who have declared that supporting this law today would make it worse for anyone in this country for one cent or for any other. Indeed, in the course of the procedure, this danger could be eliminated; if it were not, it could only be claimed that the adoption or the final version of the law would harm someone. That would be correct. And that's exactly the way it is and nothing else. As long as the law is not adopted and correction is possible, claim that support today in the general consideration of this bill would harm anyone, it is ugly to say that it is unfair to proposers, of course it is a distorted truth to the public, who then thinks, "Look at them fools, they invest something that would make the situation worse for one person." Well, it's not like that. The situation would not have worsened for anyone if the law had been properly dealt with and finalized in the debate. That's why I think it's unfair to refer to those with the highest pensions of just a few hundred, or those of the few 10 war invalids with high incomes. It's not a matter of thinking about these social transfers, it's saying that we're going to save 4 billion dollars. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Twenty-five billion, but that's not true. [[...]] For this reason, I appeal once again to support this law so that it can be properly corrected in order to be good and useful for those who expect it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u193	Thank you. The list of panellists is exhausted. However, since the time for discussion is still available, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yeah. I'm opening the application. Three reported. You've got five minutes. Mr. Gniedarsich, please. You'll be on your way a little later. Allow me to give the word to Žgajner Tavšev, because the minute has not yet passed. Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when I listened to the debate today, I came to the conclusion that many in this House do not know what the law is talking about. That's the basic law. It's not just social transfers. The basic government law speaks of transfers to households and individuals. Social transfers are also part of this package. Some of you mentioned number 38, that's what all the transfers would be together. Yeah. These are transfers, I said earlier, some are paid from the state budget, some from the municipal budget, and some are paid or paid from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. And the key problem, which I believe the proponents have made very clear today also during the debate, was a key issue that was raised in 2006. At that time, a law was passed whereby all 38 transfers would be coordinated in the same way. This actually meant in 2007 that the social situation of the vast majority of recipients of transfers deteriorated because there was simply no valorisation or harmonisation. Due to the new government law on uniform harmonisation of transfers to households and individuals. With high inflation, respected colleagues and colleagues, this situation or this fact of concern is alarming. And those who say you simply believe what the Government writes, the current government, then believe also what the Government wrote in its basic bill - do not have such a short memory! Some of you were talking, I think it was Comrade Veršnik, about a short memory. Yes, the government wrote in its proposal for a law that it went to a single system of valorising transfers because there was no higher inflation in 2005, 2006. Inflation - yes! It's true, Comrade Veršnik - I'm sorry you're not here - inflation didn't rise in one month. Inflation has increased, I think, since the second half of 2007, and has reached a critical limit at the end of the year - 6.5% annual inflation. Before, I think, an hour ago, I heard on the news that on Friday a new wave of inflation was approaching, where the basket of living needs would be re-emerged by 2 euros. Today, you make fun of us when we talk about the necessity of withdrawing the wrong law! And you know, when you say yes, that social package, with the extraordinary session. What's it gonna be? What, or how, will make the family’s economic situation easier to deal with a higher child’s allowance? Really? The four-member family with the lowest income in our country will receive only 4 euros per month because of that law, according to a higher child allowance. And don't get carried away with it. The average three-member family will receive only one euro more. This is less than a litre of alpine milk in our country today and you're proud of it. This saves the social distress of citizens and citizens. Please, dear fellows and colleagues! I have not received any data from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for which I have requested. I did not get how much the Government of the Republic of Slovenia saved in 2007 due to the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Households and Individuals. I will tell you how many calculations the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the State would have committed or should have committed if this law, which repeals the government law: 25 million euros in 2008. Only 25 million euros. Let me remind you, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, 60 million will be repurchasing military equipment. And for that, hand to heart, there's no harm in money. To be honest, I have not heard any valid arguments from a representative of the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or from a coalition. There is no valid reason why we should not support the law today, that it is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I would also like to add that at no time have we dealt with any law in this House, we have not been against saving or against austerity measures. But it is necessary to save where too much is spent, not where it is needed to survive. And that's a serious question. We have information that a minister can spend half a million dollars on one night's wage, and there's nothing to worry about how much it's going to cost taxpayers or who's hungry in this country. Obviously not if he rents luxury apartments when he travels the world and not rarely. And in this sense, it is a mistake to talk about saving in that the government does it in poor people, not in those who don't need it, who do it out of obesity. Last but not least, PPIZ has informed us in writing that it is in a position to pay that part of the previous way of coordinating social transfers concerning pension fund rights, and nothing would affect the state budget, which in any case for the last three years is increasingly contributing to the pension fund, no, I would say relatively less, but absolutely less, which is, of course, even less than the ratio. There is no problem, therefore, that the financial consequences of supporting this law would be jeopardised by any budget if, on the other hand, there is a debate that the EUR 80 million is not a problem if someone else appears in this coalition or another minister or even the President of the Government. Then we should also think about when voting, whose proposal it is. And obviously, if the proposal is ours, then it can't be supported, because we're the ones that can't be followed. Even if it's a change, even if it's a mistake that was made. Even if the government has not offered other alternative forms of solving the same problems that I have asked, when it is said, to withdraw the law, we will be different. I told you to write me how you're gonna do it, and I'm gonna withdraw the law. This proposal would also be supported by co-signers. And there was no answer, and that's symptomatic, that's ignorance, that's some weird look at the functioning of any coalition that's probably going to be a school in the future not just for us, but for anyone else. In this sense, I would like to say that our law is an emergency, but it is insurmountable in the sense that, with the mistakes it brings in its unaltered form, we cannot account for further processing and with the corresponding - not many. I took a closer look at this issue, with what three or four paragraphs in one amendment would solve the problem. And the law would be such that the few million euros would be returned to the majority of the affected who are poor. Some of those who deserve it less may be involved, but at the cost of those, we cannot punish the majority. It is better to look at the field laws to see what is going on with those who are viewed by some as too. This does not prevent the recovery of coordination for all those who are barely living and who are large. I must also say that this different information on poverty can also be wrong. But some 200,000 in this country certainly have all the attributes of poor people and there are so many who are close to this limit, and then there are another 200,000 who are just a little further away from this limit. And that is why I fear that if such a law were to be in force, then in the next period, after a few years there would be another 100,000 more, and that this would soon bring about half of the citizens living there on, I would say, one strange well-being with 500 to 600 euros of income in developed Europe. In a Europe where honey and milk flow and where it is recommended to trade traps for those below. Not the one up there. Thank you very much. Support this marriage. There's still time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you very much again for your word. Earlier, after my discussion, Comrade Cwickl, who is unfortunately not here now, used his replica in this direction to talk about the sovereign debt and repeated what we have heard on his side several times. Prior to that, he referred to the Saturday annex of Del and to the record of Professor Secretary. Therefore, I should be allowed to read a very short paragraph from Del on 21 January in relation to sovereign debt. Miha Jenko writes: "Last year, gross external debt, as shown in the newsletter by our central bank, has indeed increased by almost four billion euros, but it is about 3.6 billion euros of this increase due to the changed position of Banka Slovenije, which has a new obligation to the European Central Bank by entering the euro area. This change is purely technical and in no way entails a greater burden on taxpayers. Any political, accounting exercise based on entry into the Eurosystem is not only unnecessary, but shows the economic illiteracy of critics." In the same annex, Stanislava Caprirolo Zadravec and Franci Križanec also identified works. And then Miha Jenko writes "what we have to worry about is an increase in the external debt of banks. [[...]] But it's a private debt, not a government debt. However, it is true that the gross social product under the ESA95 method even decreased the state debt, from 27.6% of the gross social product in 2004 to 25.6 in 2007. If I refer to the various media records, then my colleague Cvikl could read something other than the Secretary and then stop making such flat-rate assessments, which he likes to tell here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the context of the half-hour vote. It's 7:40. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed from the beginning of the 19.40th.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u200	Dear Members, please take your seats and check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 27th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which amends the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, pursuant to Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if two thirds of the Members vote for it, that is 60 or more. With regard to the explanation of vote on behalf of the members of the groups, I am opening the application. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u201	On 13 December, the New Slovenia Group, as has been told several times today, proposed to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Government that the Treaty should be ratified at an extraordinary meeting and that Slovenia should set a good example. This is the most he can do as the Presidency Member State of the European Union in the ratification procedures. However, we know that this content is one of the priorities of our Presidency. Of course, the New Slovenia Group will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u203	Thank you. As has already been said, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group, respected colleagues and colleagues, because we are assessing that people themselves should say that we are not in favour of the Treaty of Lisbon or whatever, given that the possibility of enlargement given by the Treaty of Lisbon will reduce Slovenia's voting power in the Council of the European Union in proportion to the fact that the number of Members in the European Parliament will be reduced in proportion after enlargement, and given that we are already in a hurry and in mind as in 2005, we will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that there will obviously not be a farce at this point, as was the case in the event of a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, where the content was not advocated by the applicants themselves. However, I would like to point out that, as far as the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is concerned, we are convinced in the group of unrelated Members of Lip that the moment of hurry should not be the argument why to support the said act, whether it would have happened at an extraordinary meeting or not. The fact is that the country of Slovenia needs awareness, not only in the area of obligations towards the European Union, but also in its rights under the European Union. Given that we know that the country as an institution - in particular, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not aware of its rights, but solely of its obligations, which clearly indicates the pace and content of the absorption of funds from the European budgets, where we see that the revenues are realised or paid into the European budget is realized 100% and in less than 15% of the funds drawn. And since we firmly believe that even people, citizens and citizens, have not been given any debate on the ratings that the European Union allows, just and only obligations, we are convinced that, finally, the debate in the wider field would also allow. And from this title, allowing our citizens and citizens to behave and ratings, we will not support this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u206	Thank you. What interest in personal explanation? I'm opening an application for reasons of vote on a personal behalf. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Otherwise, I applied, but apparently the machine did not register to communicate on behalf of the Social Democrats Group our position and explain how we will vote. We are aware that today we are adopting an organic document setting out the bodies of the European Union, their powers and relations, and the procedures by which decisions are taken within the European Union. It also contains the fundamental principles and values that we strive for both in Slovenia and we want to work together with other members of the European Union. We are aware that the Treaty is not ideal enough to be short enough, internally consistent and transparent, but we know that this was the possible compromise that could have been reached within the 27 Member States of the European Union. And it certainly wasn't an easy negotiation. For this reason, we also consider that this is a compromise that is still acceptable to us. And Slovenia, as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, is particularly responsible for helping to foster a positive attitude towards ratifications in other countries of the European Union, so we will ratify this Treaty by Members and Members of the Social Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u209	President, thank you very much. I'll vote for it myself. And that every shadow of doubt, what I have already said here in the National Assembly today, will fall away, let me say that I have thought of Mr Janez Janš's speech today, and that he has said comprehensively today, very comprehensively the advantages and weaknesses that this Treaty brings to us. He convinced me that I would vote in favour, because by adopting this treaty we will be able to work more qualitatively and I think it brings a certain development to Europe as well as to the world. Once again, when I spoke and even when I spoke today, I thought if anyone didn't understand the speech by Janez Janša today in this House. And don't let people give me words I didn't say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u210	Thank you. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 6. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - re-decision on the Patient Rights Act. I'm asking security to escort the disruptive visitors to the exit. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that a majority of Members must vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Republic of Lip, allow me to say how we are going to vote. I will say that we will not change our decisions made by Members of today's Lip Group within the framework of the previous Slovenian National Party Group, because we are also disrespected by the Minister of Health because of the lack of harmonisation of the bill because of the poor solutions that are given in law because we are also due to the fact that the law will not bring about significantly new rights for patients. The law, hand to heart, is written to protect a health system. You know, even when I am starting today from the presentation by the Secretary of State, I am sorry that this time the Minister was not at the meeting, that she came to the 'foto finiš' again when we heard that all the details or news brought by the law on patient rights were gathered in this nice book. A fat lie, respected colleagues and colleagues! Fat lie! And these lies have been around for months and weeks. When we tried to coordinate or make a good marriage, there was no obedience from the Ministry. You know, this book says, among other things, let me read, in support of the reasons why we will vote in the Lipa Group as we will vote. You know, in this book, it says, as a novelty, which is brought by this law, what kind of medical care I can rightly expect as a patient. And with the ministries they explain the appropriate quality and safety. What good health care means, what quality health care means and what safe health care means, in the fact that a safety complication, respected colleagues and colleagues has been removed from this law. I just gave you one case. The law, the hand on the heart, is weak. Civil associations oppose the law, even the profession opposes it, and the Medical Ethics Commission has made clear comments. This law is even contrary to the commitments of the Coalition Treaty. We will not change our decision in the Lip Group of Members. We will not vote in favour of this law, so we will vote as we voted in the previous debates and we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u212	Mrs Žgajner Tavš, you were talking about a group of Members that I do not know and is not in this National Assembly and you did not tell how the Group of Non-Aligned Members will vote. It's an abuse of the rules of procedure. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I will say, in contrast, that we do not intend to support the members of our small parliamentary group of this law because it was put in as a scribble, which the Government then tried to correct with the sea of amendments, but it did not succeed because of the best proposals of the changes of the coalition from the tree, that only she knew how things were being resolved, she did not want to support. This has also resulted in the collapse of all the solutions that we have been advising and which have had arguments behind them. However, the arguments in this room, in this mandate, do not mean much and are resolved by means of a way of voting in favour of those who think, for the first time, that they know everything, and those who think they can do for the majority what they want, but not what is good for the citizens, in this particular case for the patients. I must say again that this is a law that sheds light on the real problems of the health system, health policy and the functioning of health institutions in the sense that rights are guaranteed in time and in accordance with the eligibility of insured patients. In that sense, however, not one question has been raised as set out in the Coalition Treaty. However, patients now have the option of some complicated way of complaining, if anything does not suit them, and of course, this will not do anything better with regard to the exercise of their rights. I am sorry that, if I may say so, Mrs Minister, who in fact framed the previous and current co-preparators with a solution that she trusted and believed that they had a good purpose. But it turned out that this good purpose was not, because the law was inconsistent with the patients, and it is also inconsistent with all those who think it should be written in such a way that it actually means a better position for the patient in this country, and this law does not offer such solutions. In this sense, we regret that this law is on the table, not any other. But that's life. We'll have to wait for new options later. Thank you very much. We can't give this law back to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u214	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the New Slovenia Group, we supported the law on patient rights all the time. The law is prepared and written for the patient and accepted for the sake of patients. It brings good solutions and possible changes and additions will be shown in practice. Since this is the first such law, patients can only gain it and feel that those who do not support the law do not intend to do good to patients or patients. We will vote for him in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u216	Thank you. I see hands, I open an application to explain my voice in my personal name. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. He will be happy to support this law again, because it is a law that our patients would need more than 10 years ago and there is no reason not to reconfirm it now. All those allegations that we have heard again today that this marriage is actually bad, that it does not bring solutions to our patients, it simply does not. The procedures in this law are also simple, transparent and also accessible to the patient. Thus, this law is exclusively for our patients and brings relief and benefits and is therefore right to have it. In the event that any change is to be made in the future, there is no reason for this law to change. Every marriage is a living matter, and any marriage can change only if it's willful. Once again, I will be happy to support this law again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I will also support the bill once again, because in the law we are re-declaring today, there has been so much work and effort in the past months, especially what some are trying to say today and in the past that there has been too little consensus in the adoption of this law. This is one of the rare laws which, in the first reading, received the so-called constitutional majority - 60 votes, which is one of the few laws in which when we adopted the mother's labour body in fact with amendments and, taking into account the public concerned, we literally changed the text and adapted the law to the wishes and needs of those who actually made comments to this law. However, this law has been followed throughout the whole procedure by eternal observations and indignation. I think not so many of those concerned by this law, but more of the political forces who want to introduce something at all costs to health that health care would not contribute. Therefore, I will fully support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u221	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will not support the law on patient rights precisely because it seems to me that the rights of the patient are so important that such a law as we have before our decision today certainly does not guarantee them. The story of how more than 60% or more than 60 Members went from the first to the second reading is true. But we all said at the time that we wanted to resolve the issue of patient rights and that that's why we wanted to go into further consideration, to change it, to supplement it, and that we could actually make it possible for the patient's rights. That didn't happen. We got a thin book of fat lies and fiction on the table, and, of course, we're now supposed to make decisions based on this advertising material. We can't. And of course, what is written in the bill still applies, not what is written in the propaganda material. That's why I'm gonna go against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The Council of State has offered us once again an opportunity to take sides with those who are not part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or who are not following the interests of the individual lobby. The profession, especially for medical ethics, reported that the law was unacceptable to them. The patients, the group of people to whom the law was supposed to be written, also reported that the law was not in their interest. Who's in the interest of marriage? It is in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a minister who wants to show someone in this way, in my opinion and in my firm belief, a false kindness to those who respect this law. However, I must say, and I am very pleased that one of the ruling parties, DeSUS, has resisted this kind of government. From this address to this topic all respect. All I want to ask from this place is: How is pride, my friend Friend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u224	Thank you. Is it still an interest? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. I myself, like my fellow Members of the unaffiliated Members' Group, who have called on Lip, will oppose the Law or I will support the veto. Unlike some who are still a month ago, even with a cane, allow a very harsh expression, repulsively rejecting this law, if it is inappropriate, that it is not written on the skin of those to whom it is intended, and today it is even possible to support it. But the marriage hasn't changed, the marriage has remained the same. There's no reason to change my mind. It's just a veto. No amendment, no change of law since then. And what does marriage bring? I have this brochure, too. What did you write to the patients, what would happen to them, "Does the injury that someone suffers in a car accident require urgent medical attention?" On a lot of reds, you said, "Sure." I guess you don't think that's what this law does! It's morale, it's medical ethics! That's not what this law brings. Each of us here would offer first aid in a car accident. That's not what this law brings. And to smile at another story, "Can I keep my absence from the scheduled examination to the apologising?" And it says red, "Sure." Wasn't that possible now? Whenever I don't have time, I regularly apologize to the dentist, so please, such an address is more than stupid and underestimating citizens and citizens in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u226	Thank you. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the first is the draft law on the termination of the law on the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the Group of Members, I shall open an application. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u227	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group. Indeed, in the Parliamentary Group, we will support this proposal of the law that it is suitable for further consideration, because we believe that a comprehensive discussion in the National Assembly is needed on how to deal with existing social problems, which are also due to declining purchasing power, and in particular it should be stressed that the previous law adopted by the Government in 2006 contains considerable injustices, in particular concerning the coordination of invalidity pensions, the coordination of certain other pensions allowances, subsistence allowances, and, above all, because the fact that many transfers have been coordinated only once a year and without any back calculations, and that we have had relatively high inflation on the other hand, is that many social beneficiaries, those most at risk, have been severely reduced throughout this period. The social situation has deteriorated significantly, and we also believe that there is a need to have a comprehensive debate, to change the way social transfers are coordinated in such a way that it is clear that those who have also lost the most due to falling purchasing power must be protected. In particular, it should be pointed out that in some ways the paradox that we had at this meeting last week was dealing with the various laws that are welcome, but which in some ways meant, on average, around €13 per individual, additional net revenue, which is relatively small in these high inflationary movements. Today, however, we are facing another fact when we see that, due to inadequate coordination of social transfers, some have been deprived of much more money in the last year. All that needs to be done is that, in some way, the previous situation that this government has unfortunately changed in 2006 has changed the way social transfers are coordinated so that many have lost their way in this interim period. And what is most sad is that the Minister of Finance boasted that the surplus of the budget had been achieved precisely by means of a changed way of coordinating social transfers. And we were in a situation where the surplus in the budget was actually recorded at the expense of the fact that the social situation had worsened for the poorest. Anyone who doesn't believe can look [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] also the public statements made by the Minister of Finance to the Slovenian media. [[...]] We therefore assess that something needs to be changed, and in this regard we will support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Secretary of State. The New Slovenia Group will vote against the proposal for a decision. We therefore reject the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Because we have found that certain rights of beneficiaries would be reduced by the application of this proposal to individuals and households. We can't let that happen. But we have obedience, and here I am very happy and also grateful especially to the opposition, [[Mr. Žnidaršič, be quiet now, now I have the floor, and you will be able to when you will, if you have the word]] However, I am particularly grateful to the opposition that it has been able to support the government's proposals that have left the state budget empty for more than €70 million to care for the weakest level of citizens and citizens. We reject the bill in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I cannot surprise anyone by how the DeSUS Group will vote, and I have no intention of making this known in particular. Rather, it is our intention to invite those who sincerely believe that our appeal to help those who are socially poor is being followed. It is clear to us that we have some support or almost full support during the opposition, but it is not clear to us that there is no support between our coalition friends. These discussions, which we have heard today, say that rejection, which was heard from them, is the rejection of support for the socially poor. And what we just heard, it's not true. We are advocating more resources, for 20 million euros more resources for those who have frozen their social transfers. Of course it's true that we don't always have the only one in DeSUS and in everything. But it is also likely that it is virtually impossible for us to always miss what our coalition friends tell us. Never, never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, And we don't understand that much why they think they have to send us out of the coalition yard for their lost balls, always in the nets. This is the only mission they have for us. And the question is how long can this actually go on and how to react to such sending into nets. However, despite the fact that it is not realistic to expect that we will be supported, we would say in short that we have sent the bill to the coalition groups last October. Last October, there was not one of his coalition friends who would be worth talking to us. That we could talk about these same problems with Prime Minister Janez Janša, who accepted us on this subject so that we could get calculations from the Ministry of Finance on these transfers without any problems. That we could also talk to those who, by definition, were also our opposition, only our own friends could not be spoken to. That is why we tabled this law on our own because there was no support. And then it happened that the 3/4 part of the coalition reacted by giving it to the bull in the pre-election year, and turning it to these laws, which you also supported, and our little chicken. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Don't let it burn. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u232	Thank you. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, for 34, for 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge of the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 28 December 2007, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, submitted to the National Assembly a request from Prof. Dr. Frantz Grad for early discharge from the functions of Constitutional Judge, and at the same time proposed that the assembly resolve the Constitutional Judge, Prof. Dr. Franc Grad, of 31 January 2008. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In doing so, I inform you that the technical services have forgotten to list the discussers as well as Mr. Zveg Jelinčič, Slovenian National Party. And also in some of the following proposals, a single parliamentary group has been released and I will call on it. You have a list so you won't be surprised why I'm giving her my word. First, he has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group, Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I would first like to express my regret that Mr Grad has resigned from the post of Constitutional Judge. He was one of those rare people who enjoyed full authority in the Constitutional Commission when he discussed the various topics that the National Assembly dealt with within the Constitutional Commission. Even among his colleagues, Mr Pojbič, was seen as an undisputed authority. There are not many people in the Constitutional Court and also in Slovenia who would practically even devote their careers to constitutional law. Today we are releasing a man from this city and there is nothing to be done about it. What is true here, Mr President, is that perhaps you, who are in charge of this assembly, are not interested in what we are saying, is that it is probably the question, whether the National Assembly, the parliamentary groups and the parties represented by it do not contribute to the fact that it is difficult to complete the Constitutional Court. Mr Grad's resignation, and I don't want to speculate here, has nevertheless fallen during the search for more candidates for employment at the Constitutional Court. The National Assembly and, above all, the ruling mentality of the National Assembly have done much to make this Constitutional Court difficult to complete. This is not just about questioning the various decisions of the Constitutional Court, nor is it about the fact that the ruling coalition of certain problems opened by decisions of the Constitutional Court does not wish to put the relevant solutions on the agenda of the National Assembly. What is a key problem, gentlemen of the coalition and Mr President, is that the ruling parties are actually imagining that it is also necessary in the Constitutional Court to reflect the relations between the National Assembly. This is a poor journey to work in the Constitutional Court, this is a poor journey for the functioning of the constitutional system of power-sharing and is a poor journey for the functioning of democracy in Slovenia. I believe that I could speak for hours and hours, but many of you who are destined to do these words would not even feel the need to listen, and that is also the underestimation of our work. I would ask, well, because I am not particularly disturbed by this, but Mr Pojbič does not have the right measure of when someone is performing in this Parliament. If you can tame him, I'll keep going. Well, there's a lot to be done for you, Mr. President, but there's also this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u234	Mr. Skull, I can't hear Mr. Pojbich speaking. I can only hear you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u235	Well, nice to meet you. I hope any of this gets caught up in it, too. What I was about to say is that it is not possible for us to get acquainted with such a derogation in some edifice. The National Assembly, in my opinion, and above all the ruling policy in the National Assembly have contributed greatly to the fact that the Constitutional Court will be difficult to complete. And what I am asking myself is whether it is perhaps one of the reasons that Mr Grad has given up, including this kind of attitude towards the proposals made by the President of the Republic and the work of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr Jelinčič, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm the one who thinks he's a professor. Franz Castle did the right thing. His work in college will be much more important. He'll raise young people, he'll raise, I hope better judges than we have now, and better prosecutors, so I guess he did the right thing when he left the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, he came there and saw that the Constitutional Court was in fact very inconsistent, inadequate and unfunctioningly prepared for its work and therefore actually made so little and so many mistakes, particularly in the field of national interests that the Constitutional Court should protect in the first place. I'm afraid that's not happening. That's why I welcome Professor Grad's decision and wish him great success in college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u238	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Chairman. Personal decisions made by individuals in such important functions as the Constitutional Judge are not commented on but respected. On the other hand, there is also respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, in the case of the resignation of Judge Grad, there is no doubt that there is more than a derogation. In Slovenia we now have 15 decisions of the Constitutional Court, which we as a legislative body have no longer enacted or taken seriously. If the Constitutional Court has been defined as one of the last milestones in the Constitution, you might say, even before the frenzy of politics, then this defender is no longer in the past. If we just remember the fate of the professional, competent candidates proposed by the former President of the State Drnovšek, why all and for what reasons we have rejected them, then it is clear that the Constitutional Court is in crisis, that new constitutional and legal definitions are needed, and that the Constitutional Court no longer operates in its entirety, and that the case-law of year-on-year is increasing and that constitutional judges are engaged in less and less with important, more and more banal matters, no doubt on the ground. Such a derogation can only warn us, and especially the Members of the National Assembly, that it is time for a different course of action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Prof. Dr. Franc Grad from the function of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 31.1.2008. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In addition, on behalf of the National Assembly, I thank Franz Grad for the work he has done. We are moving on to the consideration of the five proposals of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted five proposals to the National Assembly for the election of candidates for judicial office to the courts of four District Judges in Ljubljana, Slovenian Konjica, Brežica and Kranju, and to the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Does the President of the Council of Justice, Dr. Janez Kranjc, want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nina Jerin to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Metka Kramberger Wherry to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in the Slovenian Konjice. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ester Žnidaršič to the District Court in the District Court in Brežice. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Anica Rant to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Valerija Berglez Majkus to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, proposing that Mr Peter Rudl be appointed as a member for the period until the end of the four-year term of office of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council established in 2006. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Today we will be carrying out a procedure to replace a member of the RTV Council who resigns because of the incompatibilities of serving as a member of the RTV Council with a political activity. This important change was brought to us by the Law on Radio Television. Before the entry into force of this law, there were no such obstacles, since the President of the RTV Council or a member of the RTV Council could even have been the former President of a political party, not any one, but the chosen one. That's what they say. They can only be certain. In this particular case, Pahoreva. The Radio Television Programme Council, which was appointed under the new law, has recently adopted and implemented important decisions in the field of programming time allocation and also in the field of content. Quality changes can be seen in all areas - from day-to-day news shows to educational, contact, conversational, even children's and entertainment. The RTV programme brings up current content, many of which have moved into the programming scheme, into terms that are more accessible to target audiences or consumers of radio television programmes, and that is why more people are watching them. And such changes must certainly be welcomed. Given that in the public service of Radiotelevision of Slovenia there is no emphasis on commercial content or commercialisation, but, on the contrary, commercialisation is pushed far into the background, it is interesting that Radiotelevision programmes have a great deal of listening and great ratings, which means that they are current and are interesting. This also applies to information broadcasts that are not converted to emotional or optical effects, but are nevertheless completely competitive with broadcasts, with a different conceptual approach to daytime and information broadcasts. On 1 March, a parliamentary channel will also be introduced, allowing better and more direct insight into the work of the National Assembly, and more direct insight also means more direct reception of information. It means a lot to a lot to a lot of people. That Radiotelevision is progressing is a great credit both to the programming world and to the management of the institution, editors and journalists who can find the right relationships and ways to popularise the content of the software. And we can give them credit for their contribution. A significant part of this is certainly part of the programme world, which has been cleared of policy changes. There are no more vending machines or even party Februarys assigned to watch over the right political course. It's gone. And even if a policy happens after taking office in the Radiotelevision programme world, it has to stand down because the law, which we have confirmed in the referendum, does not allow and does not allow for such compatibility. This is also why today we have a new proposal for the completion of the Programme Council, and I am sure that the candidate proposed by the Electoral Commission will also fulfil his mission and contribute to the development of radiotelevision programming plans in particular in the area of amateur culture. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr Školč, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Therefore, the RTV Council is the body that ensures the dominance of SDS and the ruling public television policy. There can be no longer any doubt about this, and not least the report by the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group on the satisfaction with public broadcasting. For we have gone into changes to the law because this same party with this public agency and programs, was not satisfied there and clearly the task has been done well. It is to the joy of the SDS and the grief of all other electric current customers and other outlets that come with it. Look, we today call it the Programme Council of Man, which we know from the report is from Slovenj Gradc, that he is a construction worker, a pensioner and nothing more. On the other hand, we have several people on the list of proposed candidates and candidates for the Programme Council who are more widely known and have some connection to this media. In the first place is Mrs Bash Ida, proposed there by the Association of Professional Radio and Television Forecasters of Slovenia. Then here Mr Habe Tomaž, proposed by the Slovenian Composers' Association, is a distinguished professor not to speak further. Then there is Dr. Manca Kosher, who is proposed by Slovenian centre PEN and is a professor at FDV. I'm not going to read everyone else with all these titles, because it's going to look like you've decided on the man you need to give him a chance to serve your interests. Why do I think that's true? Because I also carefully read the tape of this session, where I saw that there was a discussion about how good it would be to have someone in this world covering the field of music. This was also discussed thoroughly in the wider Slovenian space. All those who spoke there spoke in favour of Professor Habet. No one objected to this, nor did anyone say a word in favour of Mr Rudle Peter, who perhaps I am also doing him harm, but certainly you, because you are putting on him a burden of responsibility which he will not be able to bear. But as a miracle, as it says from the first, he got the required number of votes. This miracle is repeated in this mechanism, in this world of RTV. Everyone votes in their conscience, and this conscience, as colleague Bajc will recall from another discussion, always sheds light on the same spirit, the same knowledge. There's no mistake. What needs to be said is that you make mistakes when you want to subordinate yourself and subordinate yourself to this public institution. The most that can happen to you is that you listen here and then the press sues you around the world. And others are suing you for this in the world, and they are justly suing you in the world. These are mechanisms for abuse of political power. And they only teach us that this law will have to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u244	Thank you. Mrs Majda Shirca, on behalf of the Zares Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u245	Your Honor! It is difficult to assess whether the proposed candidate corresponds to those words and descriptions that Mr Minister of Culture put forward here years ago when he said that the Program Council would be called reputable, educated, professional and very credible people. We find it difficult to judge because, in his description, Mr Peter Rudl has very little information, including that he has been proposed by society. We will not interfere with whether education is needed, I am talking about a debate at Kviaz where concerns have been expressed, whether it is possible without graduation what was expected. That's irrelevant information. But it is important, and for this reason we will also really oppose this appointment, that it is a re-election and in some way to play the principle of rotation that has been established in the Programme Council. And that is the third time, if not the fourth such repetition, when the members of the Programme Council get extended, even though the philosophy of exchange was present when you adopted the law. But it's not just that, we're going to argue for other reasons. And especially since there were many names in the selection of candidates that would satisfy the description that the minister once provided here. Undoubtedly, this is Mrs Koshereva as the representative of the centre of Pen. Not to mention Master Belak Jerne, who had a so-called task of what the media is and what visions he has in this regard, musician Habet, Go Bash and so on. However, this unanimous agreement on this name clearly testifies that those claims that we once made years ago, when the Law on RTV was already passed and was before the people were checked, those claims that came from Council of Europe experts on the Simonita-Grims Act on RTV were true. Recall that at that time an opinion was drawn up at the request of the members of the delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Among the many comments made by these experts, how this law is not good, there was also a claim that, as far as I am concerned, the independence of RTV Slovenia, the proposed law does not guarantee independence and that policy interference affects this independence, since if one party or one political option in Parliament has a majority, there is a possibility of a strong political impact. Mr Grimes, then you marked the analysis as a completely worthless thing. And they gave a positive opinion on the counterweight of the representatives of the European Parliament and the political leaders, Mr Hans Gert Pöttering and Mr Wilfred Martens. But what does the political design of the programming world mean, is evidenced by practice. And we witness this practice every day. Not only from a number of derogations, but also from members of the programming boards who have not abstained in this one-minded programming council and have gone away, with dignity, to avoid relevant topics. The last meeting of the world or the fore-end, where RTV Slovenia journalists expressed concern and wanted to talk about it, was ridiculous, if not pharsic, by the presidents of this world. Not to mention the late withdrawal of this retired member, Mr Pivc, who is being replaced today by Mr Rudl, will certainly be replaced by a replacement which has only withdrawn after the call, to the fact that representatives of not the professional and interest associations they would need are appointed to the Programme Council. People with disabilities are suing because they no longer have a representative in the programming world. And finally to mention, writers are suing as well. And I am interested, Mr Cukjat, in what will be your response to the letter you received, and we have received it in knowledge, is the Society of Writers with concern and surprise to note that you have raised writers out of codecision on such important matters, although they have once helped to create this country and some, if I appoint Mr Shelig, also RTV Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the appointment of a new member of the RTV Programme Council is just fine. After all, we will support him. After all, it is high time for some people in the programming world to switch. What's happening on Slovenian television is actually, as a colleague once said, farsi. This is becoming some sort of "Croatian explosion" of a media house, which is actually increasingly gaining within itself people who are by no means Slovenian-minded, if we can say so. The fact is that, right now, the show by Mrs Erika Žnidaršič Pyramid, on which a wine queen seemed to speak poorly in Slovenian, is probably Croatian, and Mrs Erika Žnidaršič was cheerfully talking to me, like that Member who spoke so badly about the Croats and asked this lady what she thought about it. Is this Slovenian national television? And who's to blame? Program world! No one else. The Programme Council allows such escapades, allows such spitting on Slovenian Members within the Slovenian country for the benefit of a foreign country, while we have problems with Croatia because of the ecological fishing zone and a variety of other things. And what do you think this parliamentary channel will be? Looks like it's going to be an exposition of the same TV, and it's not going to get any better. Or like today, when it happened that colleague Barovic had no tone in the transfer when he explained his and our position here in the National Assembly. In short, things are spinning weird. As long as they're on Ljubljana TV, not only in the software world, but also more people like that, I don't know what we want with that kind of television. After all, in this case, I fully agree with the fact that the television subscription should be abolished. Why would they pay across the border from some people who come here to Slovenia for a medal and then even in bad Slovenian, if they even try to speak Slovenian, here they conduct what will happen? It is therefore important that in the programming world there is a person and people who will act in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and the interest of our viewers and watch. The fact is that Croatian television was declared the best in Europe. Certainly not because, according to the local word, "get up to the Slovenians" but because it stands on Croatian foundations and talks about its country and defends its country. This is not the kind of TV we have in Slovenia. We got something weird that doesn't know who's drinking, who's paying. The Roman Catholic Church, on the one hand, and Croatia on the other, is increasingly breaking into television. Pretty soon, I don't know where we're gonna get to or what's gonna happen to this TV. I don't know. Now, since T-2 sold her program, and I don't know if there's going to be any more pornography, this joy won't even be on TV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u248	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is nothing to add to the lively debate on the work of the Programme Council and television. Perhaps those who have read the record of what was going on at one of the last meetings of the Programme Council could generate their own opinion. There was also a debate about why 15 established and renowned journalists left this so famous public house. And the famous and the most [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] You heard right. [[...]] A well-known and popular journalist and Dnevnik leader said: "We have worn too many shoes for young colleagues, some of them themselves, and you can now see them all on screens." I don't think there's much to add to that. Perhaps this picture of this famous house is complemented by the president's thought, which was pointed out to the humane drought, the deficit and the problems that he has made a remarkable statement: "All I've taken away from this is that journalist Vladimir Vodušek has too much pay." Given that Mr Rudl is running for such a prominent establishment and that such a programming council does not allow him these stunts and I am voting against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture. [[He's quitting.]] This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Peter Rudl as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia for the period until the end of the four-year term of office of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was established in 2006. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 24. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on a proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are contested in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Saiovic has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. [[He's quitting.]] There are no other speakers to discuss, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination and assessment of the factual situation, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the exercise of control under the State Prosecutor's Law, the amendment of legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece, Group of Members [[...]] [[He's quitting.]] There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to an examination of the conclusion of the termination of the office of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Ambassadors of Barbara Žgajner Tavš ceased to be a member of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party on 9 January 2008. Therefore, pursuant to Article 112 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: Members of the Parliament, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, have ceased to be a member of the Parliament of the Slovenian National Party and shall cease to serve as President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly following the law on the prevention of corruption. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the law on the prevention of corruption. The proposal was submitted by a non-connected group of Members for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Group of Unaffiliated Members. [[He's quitting.]] Since there are no other speakers, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the anti-corruption law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 4. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the decision has been taken or pardoned by 71 Members and Members, 59 votes against 4. [[...]] [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mirana Potrča, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Miran Porč's question on the presentation of Slovenia in the world. On behalf of the Group of Members, what proposal? Mr. Grimes, you've raised your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. I just wanted to draw your attention to the reasons why we will not support this decision in the SDS Group. The first one is simple. It is a fact that Mr Potrč, when he spoke about it, misused the words of the President of the State, because he omitted a sentence which is essential, and I quote, "But for her", the truth is that "it is necessary to respect both legal norms and legal procedures, if the truth is to be found on the legal path, as well as strict logic and ethics of scientific research, when it comes to historical truth in general." The second is substantive and stems from this sentence, which Mr Ptrč left out. If he had used publicly available sources, such as newspaper articles, he could have convinced himself that just a few months before the first democratic elections on the Slovenian border, more people had been shot down by the Yugoslav army at the time. The family that tried to swim the river. And then I certainly couldn't defend the thesis that there wasn't an iron curtain in our house. In the right light, however, these words would have sounded - those words spoken by Mr Potrč - only if they had been spoken about the Kočev Horn or somewhere on one of the other 219 now officially confirmed and established group graves on Slovenian soils, of which, according to some estimates 160 thousand, after some even 300 thousand minutes, with a silent cry, warns that the iron curtain was when it came down, as Mr Churchill had said in fact in 1946, from the Baltic to the Straza Bay, and on Slovenian soils did it in the worst possible way. It's not just the dead. It is also a matter of being able to talk about the fates of people, such as Dr. Jože Pučnik, who had to leave the country and were unable to return for a long time. All of this suggests that such a way of thinking is non-European and, in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon adopted today, the least credible. But so that we don't just talk about the past, we're talking about past events. Ignorance, ignoring, those celebrations dedicated to victims of violence and totalitarian regime from 1995 to 1990, by the SD witness that iron curtains unfortunately still exist here: in your heads. And I can only say that we are infinitely sorry that this is so. Or maybe it'll just change over time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u252	Thank you. Anybody want a word on their own? There are several deadlines, so I am opening an application for explanations of vote on my behalf. Mr. Skull, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Exceptionally, I will not support the debate on this debate, but not because I would not feel necessary, but because colleagues who were partners and colleagues who were co-operators would call for a way through Parliament to discuss and collect important materials as well. For those of us who don't want to work in just any sort of Spain, that would be a relief. What I'd like to say is that my generation or myself, which is why I speak for myself, we belong to those people who have been involved in various civil movements in the 1980s, various conflicts. And from that time on, as far as I'm concerned, part of it's been resolved. But the Pancrates solved it. They did an iron curtain with one perfect song, which greatly helped to make things more relaxed later. And it's like, "For an old lady's iron curtain, they're pumping a red dog." [[...]] Let's hear it and you'll learn something from the '80s. Certain things were already exceeded.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. I will not support the debate because there is a whole bunch of evidence that the Iron Curtain existed and is 2 minutes too small to be listed and seriously analysed. One such event, which is part of the Iron Curtain, is certainly Article 113, which spoke of a verbal delicacy. If you spoke ill of power, you were locked up, raised on the Golem Island, and so on. For the Iron Curtain, Drnovšk's law on the possibility of establishing concentration camps is the end of the 1980s. This belongs to the Iron Curtain. Very unilaterally oriented media, television and radio programs with one channel, which basically broadcasts one single, one and the same truth. The revolt of the ancient miners could only be created for an iron curtain, not for some democratic society. The common learning sails, which were the introduction to travel, can only take place behind a bureaucratic wall such as an iron curtain. The non-transparent economy, the crown of which was a Serbian invasion into a monetary system in which even ours passively participated, some future vice-president does not know what the electorate will confirm. And of course this iron curtain may have been a little lower, a little thinner, so some of the privileged positions have seen well across. Sometimes, for a day, it also opened up to the common mortal when we received passports and we could look into Western democracy and then return in bad will because everything was under pressure at home. Hence, at times it was understandable in certain circles of nostalgia. But when these times and iron curtains were lifted, even tears flowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The arguments put forward by Mr Grims and Mr Ziherl convince me that a large majority will support my proposal. If it were true that Mr Grims and Mr Ziherl had any argument in historical facts, then we would be happy to support this proposal in order to demonstrate in the National Assembly how right Mr President of the Government was when he said that Slovenia was still behind the Iron Curtain in 1980. Because you also know that this is not real, you do not want to discuss this in the National Assembly. Right, because certainly the National Assembly is not the place to discuss it. It was only necessary to note this because our right-wing politicians, instead of commending Slovenia and talking about the facts, could say, Mr President of the Government in the European Parliament, that he was proud to represent Slovenia, which had been on the side of the allies during World War II and had fought against the Hitlerian coalition. But it seemed more important to him not to mention it, but to say that we were behind the Iron Curtain, which never in a formal sense even by the definition of Churchill, even by the definition of all the encyclopedias we have never been. Be smart, vote in favour, and you will be able to prove that you are right - because you are wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u259	I'll support this decision, too. I was born, I grew up, and I lived along a line that was supposed to be iron, and I had never scratched in all my history and my life. And I'd like to see if ever colleagues Ziherl and Grimes scratched each other at this border. I was walking up and down, and when we're walking around, my friend Milenko Ziherl, and we're telling our friends around the world at meetings that we both go to, where they sometimes ask us how it used to be, you're admitting there wasn't an iron curtain. Today, suddenly, there are countless arguments that I would also like to face and deal with, but today is not an opportunity; it will be an opportunity if you support this decision and allow us to face the truth with the statements of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u260	Thank you. Hands are still up, so I'm opening the applications again; obviously we're in an interesting darkness. Mr. Zagorac, please, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I myself will support the proposal for an extended debate on the words of the Prime Minister of the Government which he has spoken. Dear colleagues from the government coalition you spoke to before me. I don't know what curtains they kept you behind? Were they iron, satin, or any other? I was born alone a while ago, before 1980. And I have to tell you, the only curtain I remember is the one we had at home in the windows. The passport we had at the time was valued worldwide. It wasn't a prison, at least I don't remember it. But if you were kept at home in cages, any curtains, you blame someone else, not the country. The country had nothing to do with it. President of the Government, I believe that he got a confession when he said that Slovenia was under an iron curtain back in 1980, but then he began slowly to penetrate like a man who represented the interests of the Iron Curtain, like that chaplain who then took over from that structure that defended the Iron Curtain. He was the one, you all know his history better than I do, you probably even have his resume on your nightstand. And not now speak against your president, against the Prime Minister of the Government. He was defending her back then, back in the '80s, but times are changing, and people with them seem to be, depending on which side she's pouting a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support this proposal for a simple reason, because it is time for us to spare the Slovenian people with this kind of debate and nonsense, that we will tell them here for five hours how we were behind the Iron Commitment in the 1980s. Television broadcasts from this hall are common, common, and I think people are tired of this kind of debate. It is unusual for the President of the Government to say something like that and then listen to some of the things we have heard a little while ago. I think these people deserve something else from this hall, not something like that. There's something else I'd like to say that's been said a few times today. We're often "rolling" here with some ex-humanists and the like. I'm hoping to say that because I've never been to a party before, they should first clear up their lines, and with the President of the Government, they'll agree on who was where, and then they'll tell us something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u265	Even in my own name. Look, a lot of people say what happened in the '80s. And let me tell you, there is, I know a very good example of one evicted priest who left Slovenia in 36 years, long before World War II, and with the things you keep pulling on the day, he had no connection. He just wanted to go home to Slovenia. He never could because he was just before he left, by chance, the secretary of Archbishop Gregory Rozman. He's done a lot of good. After that, the French named the central market in a town called Merlebach, and you know that the French don't blindly do that to anyone. But when he wanted to return to Slovenia, he asked for a passport, then the Yugoslav authorities, when they called him, told him, and the iron curtain would never rise for you, so go. And he's disappointed and broken and he's gone. And, colleagues, it wasn't 60 or 70, it was just before the Slovenian independence and just before the first democratic elections, in 1985, 1986, 1987, these were the stories I am telling you now. And I know this case very well, because my colleagues, this was my uncle, Mr Stanko Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal for this debate. Unfortunately, I find with horror that all Members unfortunately do not know what the historical, ideological expression of the Iron Curtain means. And that is very bad, but I will not support this because this debate has been proposed as a test recipe, how to provoke ideological debate, a debate about a half-lived history that would re-share people. Inspiration of division is the best recipe for the electoral year for the party from which this proposal came. And you can handle this recipe. And if we accepted this debate, then we would involve a number of "cobajagi" experts from former Marxist centres and indoctrinate people further and share them. However, I must say that I am pleased that Mr Ptrč last quoted two sentences of Dr Türk's speech from Dražgoš, because I have quoted him before. Unfortunately, he did not quote the most important part concerning what he proposed. He's the one after he says he's [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] partial truths as the only or the decisive are not the truth, but morally questionable work, and he also said that every political view expresses, at best, a partial truth. [[...]] We have learned this in Slovenia over the past decades. He spoke clearly throughout the period when the leading political party ruled in the name of historical truth, as she chose it. And he rightly said that this was a moral contention. And it was expressed in a symbolic place to talk about half the truths in Dražgoš, and I'm glad we have such a president coming from my high school, who thinks a lot. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u268	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Lately, I have listened to high-pitched words about how we must follow the truth, from the President of the National Assembly, through the President of the Government to the Archbishop, all of them have spoken in an accommodative manner about how the truth should be followed. Second thing. On every occasion there are many words spoken about the meaning of patriotism, respect for the country, the country. And now I ask how in the young generation you will raise all these positive feelings if you spit in the European Parliament on your own country. And this is the President of the Government. I ask you kindly to sell this truth to those who listen to it. Can any of the coalition MPs tell me the number of doctors of science and those in the Republican Assembly who were able to study in the West at the Iron Curtain? Who saw the Iron Curtain in Slovenia in 1987 and 1988? Haven't you ever traveled east to see what kind of border inspection they were there? Now you're talking about the decline of borders, and you're talking about Slovenia as a country, and you're talking about Slovenia as if it's not a national country. Give some thought to what you are saying and what you want to achieve if you speak in a way that the President of the Government provokes with his own words, with his statements of insult and resentment among many citizens and citizens of this country. But this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It doesn't upset you because it's not your truth. Because you're offering us your truth. Let us understand that someone else has also read, seen, and realized as you have come to know, seen, and seen us [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u270	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 46. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of the question of the delegation of Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the government's social policy direction. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mrs Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we were all full of big words about social affairs, even in the future. But yesterday, or in the words of the President of the Government, I did not receive an approximate answer to the very clear question of the Member State: What will be the government's social policy in the future? Not a single close answer. I ask because I know that there are very important documents in preparation for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Documents that regulate the system of social rights in a new way, those rights that are paid from public funds. That means a new set of rights. According to my assessment and to my knowledge of certain guidelines adopted in the past within this government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I fear that these laws are going forward in the direction of restricting rights or eliminating the term'social state'. Please, your distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the situation in our country in this area is not rosy. Today, you have spoken, in particular the representatives of the government coalition, that certain measures taken in January are positive measures that the government is willing to adopt certain changes under the laws already adopted which may lead to an improvement in the situation for citizens and citizens in our country. But you didn't tell me what changes and what laws. Nor was the answer given to the question why this government did not have hearing in this mandate to deal with it, adopted a law that would facilitate the situation of those people, those workers with a minimum wage. I am specifically talking about the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. Twice in this mandate, a law was introduced by the opposition, twice the law, according to the domestic word, "scanslan" by the coalition. I'm asking you, and I'm asking you for your support. Let's get some fresh wine. May the President of the Government tell him what his social policy will be. It's a very serious area, respected colleagues and colleagues! Because it's not enough to just wave our hand and say it! "Yes. If prices rise by 2%, in a year we may take a measure that will return €1 per month to Slovenian citizens and citizens."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u272	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 42. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matey Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question put by Dr Matey Lahovnik concerning the technical government or the early elections. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitje Slavinca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac, to Dr Mitje Slavinc's question on the reorganization of the Ministry of Defence's work. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Slavinec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u273	Thank you so much for saying that. So it's a very simple matter. I really ask you, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members and also on my own behalf, to support my proposal, because it is a broad topic. I base not only on the question itself, but also on the answer, where Minister Erjavec stated to me that the information to which we refer is not correct is wrong. But I had in my own hands a letter signed by his secretary. So the letter that came from the Ministry. That is why it seems important for us to make this debate to find out what the actual situation is with regard to employment at the Ministry of Defence, what is the rationalisation of which is so much talk and, more importantly, what is the possibility that we really make this rationalisation such that it will reduce costs on the one hand and, on the other hand, it will ensure greater readiness of the Slovenian Army, which is the basic objective, and also jobs in areas where the largest, relatively largest share of members of the Slovenian Army is coming from, and now, because of the various measures, they have to drive an hour and a half away in one direction or more. As we see, there are many reasons why it would be useful to hold this debate and not least to establish the credibility of the data in the documents to which I referred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u274	Thank you. In your own name? Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u275	Thank you, President. I will support this proposal. Last but not least three weeks ago, alone or I also signed on behalf of the parliamentary group, asked the Minister about the new systemisation issues, because there is also a suspicion that employees are also preparing for employment, currently loyal, in the event of certain changes, whether they are necessary, meaningful or not. That is why I am still waiting today, after three weeks I do not have this answer by the Minister, a written question has been addressed. Let us give the opportunity to answer and discuss the question posed by our fellow Slavinec this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u276	Thank you. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 41. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Zvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla related to the implementation of projects co-financed by the European Union. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljubo Germič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health, Zofija Mazej Kukovic to Mr Ljub Germić's question on ensuring effective health care. Mr. Germich, on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. International research and investigations into the quality and effectiveness of health systems in the Member States of the European Union have shown that Slovenia has declined from 12th place to 21st place from 2005 to 2007. Of course, it's a concern. When we monitor the local health system, we see on the one hand that insurance companies offer us additional insurance that allows us to see for those rights that we already pay through compulsory health insurance, we can skip waiting types, which disrupts the public health system in Slovenia, on the other hand we can see the mass departure of doctors in S.p.'s and in the afternoon or even at night offer additional services. The President of the Medical Chamber speaks of a fear of mistakes that may occur. We can witness investment problems on equipment calls. The reasons why we should talk about whether Slovenia is taking effective measures to ensure that trends in the quality and effectiveness of the Slovenian healthcare system do not continue and, on the other hand, through such a debate, we could hear the Ministry and Government's responses where the reasons for such a deterioration in the quality and efficiency of the Slovenian health system have occurred in the short term. I therefore propose that we discuss this here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u278	Thank you. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, to Mr Sreč Friend's question on criminal proceedings in the area of damage to the sale of state property. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Franca Žnidaršič will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm, to the question of mags. Franca Žnidaršič regarding German military debt or war compensation. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mr Dusan Kumr's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, to Mr Dusan Kumr's question on the functioning of the Court of Cyprus. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u279	I'm only gonna take this opportunity because you weren't here yesterday or we were more than nothing in this room. I would like to draw attention to the Minister of Justice's warning that we have already done this work today. His warning went in the direction of under-responsible approach to determining in this National Assembly of Judges of the District Courts. My question referred to the Court of Cyprus when a judge who led one of the more difficult and difficult cases due to lack of experience and inefficiency was transferred from the District Court to the District Court to gain experience. His answer was, "I don't have this responsibility, you have the responsibility of choosing this judge." I therefore recommend for the next time that we do not confirm with the left hand of these proposals coming from the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u280	Mr. Kovacich. Here you are, on behalf of the Group of Members. I skipped before.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u281	We do not really see any reason in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to support the proposal of Ambassador Kumro and to vote on his parliamentary question. The Minister replied very clearly that, in the case of the transition of the former President of the Koper District Court to the types of lawyers, he had proposed judicial supervision to the courts, which had then also been effectively submitted. The judicial supervision did not then detect any significant irregularities. In this particular case, therefore, the Minister has done everything in his power. If he had done anything more than that, for example, to exercise control on his own or through ministerial services and then assess the specific conduct of the court or former President of the court in the case in question, he would have acted unlawfully. Which, of course, in such a case could be the reason for a special debate in the National Assembly or more. However, he did so only in the manner prescribed by the law that he was obliged to do. Perhaps in the proposal for a debate in the National Assembly, proposed by counterpart Kumer, the Minister's observation that he had not actively intervened in an event before a court of law and with direct influence that the conduct of the former President of the Court of Cyprus would have been characterized as legal and morally inadmissible and would have been questioned in a specific case where the mayor of Cyprus, who is not a party to a political party belonging to a colleague of Kumer, was acquitted of charges. As was the case with the former President of the party to which Kumer belongs, as well as the former President of the State, who in fact did, in at least one case this was proved to have had an unlawful influence or at least attempted to influence the conduct of the competent law enforcement authorities in the event of the detention of the same Cypriot mayor. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support Mr Kumr's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u282	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of Zagorac, do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Kumer, I'm afraid you have no right. [[...]] Make a procedural proposal first, then explain it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u283	I'd explain it first, then suggest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u284	We know these "fiddles."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u285	Respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u286	Give me a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u287	The Honourable President of the National Assembly. With deep respect. At the outset, I said that yesterday there was more of us in this room when I asked a question and got an answer. My friend Kovacic talked about things that I didn't even ask the Minister of Justice yesterday in the way he was talking about. In the magnetogram of what I warned you about, he didn't talk about it at all, and in the magnetogram, please read what I warned you today. I wasn't talking about other things here today. About specific names, I haven't talked about any of them, and I'm asking that things don't go wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u288	Okay. I consider that a supplement. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u289	Thank you. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u290	In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u291	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u292	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u293	In a group of unrelated Members named Lip, we will support Mr Kumro's proposal. Difference, [[Thank you for warning me.]] , in my own name, I am also a member of this parliamentary group. I don't know what magnetogram Mr. Kovacic got. They must have made a mistake printing it for you. Or they printed it themselves, the ones who prepared it for you. But yesterday, I was surprised to be present at the Minister's response. At that time, we were present three SD Members, three Lipa Members, one SDS Member, one Member of the Hungarian Nationality Community and one Member of the DeSUS. There was no one else. From ministers three ministers of the Slovenian People's Party and one minister of DeSUS. There was no one else in this room. We're nine. And the magnetogram, Mr. Kovacic, that you read, I don't know where it's drawn from, and I don't know how it's made up. Everyone else, shame on you, you weren't here today, you'll be easy to push against, and you don't even know what we're talking about. You blindly believe someone who's just read something to you and you'll confirm it. I believe you've had a good time at 5 p.m., but today you'll be deciding on a serious matter that's been brought before the Minister of Justice and you'll be happy to press against it. I would like to hear someone else say to me what the Minister said so cleverly that there is no need to support a broader debate, but I will probably find none other than Mr Kovacic. I don't know, maybe Mr. Pojbich, you probably know what the minister was responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u294	Well, now we're in a slow tone. Another application for explanation in his own name is Mr Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I think there is another Member in this National Assembly who is able to listen to the debate in the National Assembly from his offices, and finally it is possible to read the debate from the magnetograms. And personally, after I listened to the debate in my office, because I was able to listen from there, I also read a very detailed MRI, which I also underlined in some of the parts that I found interesting. I came only from what was said. And the Minister's response was that he could only act in accordance with the rules governing his conduct. And the regulations do not allow the Minister to have any concrete impact on decisions of judicial institutions, such as in this particular case, the court in Cyprus. If he had acted in a way that would have a concrete effect, as in another case the former President of the party belonging to Kumer, who raised the issue, would have acted unlawfully and unlawfully. That is why I will not personally support Mr Kumr's initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u296	Thank you. I vote. There are 58 Members and Members present, 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at nine o'clock. Good night and thank you for participating.
