ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 40th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Ljubo Germič, France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Jožef Horvat, Anton Kokalj, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Miro Petek, Jakob Presečnik, Villa Rezman, Mrs. Maja Širca and Breda Pecan until 12 noon. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I have to say, he's going to be Minister of Magic. Vizjak missed a few minutes, so I would like to give the floor to Mr Martin Mikolić to present the report of the committee that discussed this bill. Here you go, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! The Committee on the Economy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act at its 25th urgent meeting on 10 June 2008. Representatives of the Government, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Chamber of Commerce and the Energy Chamber attended the meetings of the Committee. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS members and by Alojz Posedel and Drago Koren. Since the amendment of Draga Koren was not properly tabled, the Committee considered it as a possible amendment to Article 2. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service which made specific comments to each article, namely Articles 2, 7, 8, 9 and 10. These comments were taken into account by the adoption of amendments to the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the proposer's representative simply pointed out that the proposed amendment intended to empower the Environment Fund to collect and manage funds paid for the recovery of the consequences of mining works and to bring the criminal provisions of the current law into line with the offence law. In the debate on individual articles, the members of the Committee and the invited members mainly discussed the provisions of Article 2 and the amendments of Aloise Posedel and Draga Koren to this Article. With regard to the amendment by the Member of the Commission, it was stressed that, while it is reasonable and correct to authorise the Environment Fund to collect and manage funds for the rehabilitation of mining works, it is neither logical nor logical to authorise this Fund to collect and manage the funds paid by those mining right holders who are already doing so. The Velenje Coal Mine has already established long-term reservations in line with international accounting standards for the recovery of the consequences of mining works for the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and is regulated even by special law. In view of this, it would also be illogical to redirect these funds to the Environment Fund and should therefore be explicitly excluded from Article 2(2). It was also pointed out at the proposal of Mr Koren, who pursued a similar objective as Mr Posedel, but was somewhat narrower, as it only referred to Velenje's coal mine. The representative of the Government stressed that there was no need for the two amendments, since Article 2 does not apply to them. The proposal seeks to regulate those obligations for future concessionaires or future concession contracts and not for existing ones in accordance with the Directive. Notwithstanding this explanation, the debaters continued to point out that it was not sufficiently clear from the text of Article 2 or its explanation, and they therefore considered that it would be clear in Article 2 that those provisions did not apply to already concluded concession contracts. Since it was not possible to draft a provision at the meeting of the committee of the relevant dictatorship, it was agreed that, together with the representatives of the Government, the amendment should be drafted at the meeting of the National Assembly until the second reading of the draft law. As we can see, the coalition's parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment to the relevant transitional provision in accordance with this agreement. The Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, NSI and SLS to Articles 2, 7 and 8 and the amendment of the Parliament and the proposal of the Member of the Koren became irrelevant. The Committee also adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, a complementary draft law, which is an integral part of the report, is being prepared. I suggest we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act confers tasks on the collection and management of funds paid for the recovery of the consequences of mining works on the Environment Fund, the Public Fund. The key objective and purpose is to collect resources as a guarantee in the active years of all mines and all other exploitations, economic exploitation of mineral raw materials, and not least as an opportunity to remedy this after the exploitation period. In Slovenia, there are too many wounds in space and also unanswered questions about how to remedy certain consequences of economic exploitation, either mineral raw materials, or or ore, or other. This is an important upgrade to existing solutions, which will certainly contribute significantly in the long term to the finalisation of this area. The Environment Fund, the Public Fund, will carry out the tasks, manage the accounts of concessionaires, monitor the payments of concessionaires, repay the payments of concessionaires in accordance with the decisions issued, maintain the value of the funds invested and other tasks and perform the tasks associated with the implementation of those tasks. Through accounts or sub-accounts for each individual concessionaire, the environmental fund will have an accurate view of the payments for the rehabilitation of individual mining premises degraded by mining works, as well as of the use of these funds. Separate recording of the funds paid will be ensured, and a preventable transfer of funds from one sub-account to another and the non-use of funds will be ensured. The solidarity responsibility of concessionaires will also be excluded. These amendments and amendments to the law further implement a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council which requires financial guarantees, i.e. a financial leverage, some financial instrument that guarantees recovery, prior to each use of inert waste for recovery purposes. The Directive requires the competent authority to require a bank guarantee or an appropriate form of deposit, including mutual guarantee or other equivalent guarantee, before any activity involving the disposal of waste on the facility or the management of the waste is initiated. Since we already have some positive experiences in Slovenia in this way, we have decided to transfer these tasks to a fund that has already been established. This does not create new bodies and extends the responsibilities of existing ones. It is also very important to stress that the contractual relationship between the concessionaire and the Conciliator already in force can only be changed with the consent of the two parties. No activity or modification of concession contracts is envisaged for existing contracts. And this was also one of the key issues in the consideration of this law on the labour market, namely something concrete with Velenje Coal and also with the existing concession contracts. Let me point out that even now in any concession contract, there was a provision that after the concession period the concessionaire was obliged to remedy the situation, to return it to the state in accordance with the project which was made. Each project to obtain either mineral raw materials or anything else also had an integral part to talk about recovery. But there was no guarantee so far that this would happen. In the event that the company went bankrupt, that someone had died, the matter remained unsettled. With this fund, with these guarantees, and with this permanent collection of money, we also deal with all these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to the visitors on the balcony! The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Dear Vice President! Dear Minister with a fellow Member, Members of Parliament! Respectable visitors and visitors to the gallery! Good morning, good morning! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act, which will empower the public environmental fund to collect and manage funds paid to remedy the consequences of mining works and align the criminal provisions of the current law with the law on offences. These changes are appropriate and we therefore support the urgent procedure for the adoption of the novel. The environmental fund must be established in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act relating to the financial regulation of recovery. The law must also clearly lay down the powers of the Ministry responsible for mining, i.e. in that administrative work. It must be clearly specified that a separate collection of resources can only be used for the purposes for which they have been collected. Within the sub-account, items for individual research or acquisition space shall be opened. As the law meets all these requirements, we will also support the proposed proposal of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group by means of a rapid procedure. We will also support the amendments tabled by the parties to the coalition on the basis of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, indeed, one of the first priorities is exactly the relation to the environment, so we also support any change, any addition, which would also allow for better and more careful treatment of our environment by appropriate law. That is why the purpose of this law is essentially to support it. As has been said, there are too many large, deep, severe wounds in Slovenia that have been made by unknown individuals or companies with uncontrolled exploitation of mines, and that this is so in the case of mining, both in running and standing waters, and that, above all, those of us who are also in the role of mayors, we are seeing this much more clearly, as this is practically happening to us daily because the country is so unsuccessful precisely in the area of inspection services that should be more acute, faster and more effectively persecuted. In this amendment to the law in principle, we also support the intention of the proposer, who wrote that this new supplement seeks to provide funds, to collect them in an orderly manner. However, we also tabled an amendment in the proceedings on the parental committee for the very reason that this law seemed unclear to us. Above all, after today's reply or presentation by the Minister and the representative of the labour force, an open question remains about the situation. Since, in the introduction, it was stated that the Regulation on the fixing of payment for the recovery of the consequences of mining works setting out the method of payment and the level of payment for recovery was not implemented in practice. In the existing concession contracts with which the concessionaires committed themselves to the way in which the recovery and payment were carried out, the fulfilment of the obligations was not realized, since the mining fund as the fund through which these payments and payments were to be made was not established. One reason is that it is not possible to evaluate recovery due to incomplete project documentation. Projectors in the mandatory content of projects in the economic assessment chapter did not specify the value of rehabilitation, and the Ministry did not verify this before issuing the uniform research and exploitation permits issued by administrative units. Thus, we still have the question of what is going on with all those existing existing concessions that have something written down, but this is not being implemented in practice. This means that, after the amendment now tabled by the coalition, it is clearly written, and we all know now that such provisions of this Article do not apply to concession contracts which have been concluded since the date of the entry into force of this Act, but what is the question with those who do not have and who do not carry out what they should. We have therefore pointed out as an example of good practice, such as Velenje Coal, which has been reserving rehabilitation funds for years in line with international standards, that this is also regulated in those mines which are in the process of closing and where it is regulated by a specific law, but that there is still a great deal of question about what and how the State will react and how it can collect the necessary funds from those concessionaires who have validly concluded concessions and do not carry out what they should, say, do not allocate the necessary money for subsequent recovery. So we are still convinced that it is right that this amendment, which has indeed been drafted by the Group of Members, is also taken into account and that, therefore, only those who are good and conscious are excluded, that action against others is also taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Ivana Yelen has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Messengers and Members, distinguished visitors! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. For the novelty brings a change or supplement to the current regulation in work that has not been implemented, despite the legal and regulatory basis, since the fund through which the payments of concessionaires and reimbursements are to be made for the purpose of remedying the consequences of mining works has not been established. Therefore, the obligations of concessionaires in relation to compulsory rehabilitation and the provision of the necessary resources for this purpose, although these obligations result both from legal, sub-legislative and contractual acts, do not materialise and, of course, result in certain negative consequences for the further degradation of the environment, not to mention the financial consequences that fall on the country or the local community. For the collection, management and purpose of the funds derived from the payment of mining rights holders to remedy the consequences of mining works, the mandate and financial responsibility in this respect in respect of the Eco Facility shall therefore be conferred through the addition of Article 62 of the Mining Act. By raising funds on a specific sub-account and within it, individual items for specific research or acquisition space shall be provided with transparency and the strict purpose of the use of the funds collected. Since the amendment of the Mining Act will, according to our assessment, contribute to the implementation of the previously unimplemented and applicable legal standards, it will also correct the impressions of poor implementation of such a European directive into national legislation that impedes its effective implementation, we will support the amendment by DeSUS Members. It is also clear that we support the amendment, which follows the need for clarity of the articulation concerning the acceptance of an obligation only for all future concessions following the entry into force of the amendment. Because we believe that the law is good because it covers all the mines in the Republic of Slovenia, we will vote in favour of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly! Nice greetings to visitors and visitors! At home, parents, as well as educators, say to children who blur, "Kids clean up after you". This law is, "screw behind you." That's the right thing to do. It is interesting in this law that we already have a regulation in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. Why am I mentioning this regulation? Because this Regulation has set out most of the content we are talking about now. But she didn't pay attention. I also mention it because of events that took place in this hall two days ago. And now this regulation is becoming a law, which is good. However, we had an example where we also wanted to specifically draft the law on the closure of the Idri Mine, which stated that we have a regulation that regulates everything. Here we have proof, back here - just to remind myself that that's not true. A regulation that is not complied with has no sanctions and is therefore drafted into a law. And that's where we didn't listen to Mr. Bevik. But let's just leave it. It is right that this law is right for people to clean up after themselves, and it is right that they have the obligations enshrined in this law. The environmental fund is the one who will collect these funds, who will have an accurate view of gathering and spending, which is very important. This law binds, no matter what happens to anyone, that the one who made the wound in nature to heal that wound. Of course, all that has been said in both cases is very important in this law. By carefully reading Article 2 of this Law, we can see that it does not make clear who this law applies to or will apply to after its application and who it does not. This was also seen by the members of the competent parent’s working body and was pointed out. And when they realized it was true, the amendments were made. And after these amendments there was an amendment because, of course, it is right to listen to the ruling coalition, yes, SLS, DeSUS, SDS and NSI, which says to Article 2: "These provisions do not apply to the concluded concession contracts on the day of the entry into force of this law." At the same time, we also have the amendment tabled by the Zares Group. I want you to understand that now we don't see politically that they're there and they're there. There is an essential difference between these two amendments, ladies and gentlemen. And it cannot be said that the amendment of coalition groups covers the content covered by the Zares amendment. In our own words, with the amendment of coalition parties, we forgive all those who have so far exploited, injured our surfaces, and forgive them for what they have not done. They just didn't clean up after themselves, and with this amendment, we forgive them. If you've done this before, and you haven't cleaned up after yourself, it's okay, from now on, you'll have to if you do anything else. This is the essential difference between the amendments. The amendments of the Group of Ambassadors, however, are very precise, explicitly states that the provisions of the preceding paragraphs do not apply to those mining right holders who carry out the coal mining activity. The point is that long-term reservations have been made for the closure and recovery programme in line with international accounting standards and for those who are regulated by law. And colleagues and colleagues, please be so reasonable and accept this amendment, because this amendment is substantively clear and pure. With this amendment, let us not make the mistake that we would make with the amendment of coalition groups, even though I believe it is well-intentioned. Once again, the amendment of coalition groups will excuse all those who have exploited, put behind them nothing, cashed in their pockets and walked away. They're clean by now. From now on, they'll have to be careful. Please accept the amendment of the Zares Group, which is also a condition for the Slovenian National Party, so that it will be happy to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, too, on my behalf, respected colleagues, colleagues, ministerial team and, of course, guests on the balcony! I will, however, be able to begin the sentence with an excuse, not only adieu knapi, but goodbye to those places where a number of years have taken place, 200 years of mining activity and these places are today, unfortunately, forgotten by the state, by those responsible, by the Ministry of Economy, which is the Ministry of Mining. A colleague in front of me was talking about someone breaking up a room and then having to be cleaned up. But it's not just about littering and cleaning, your respectable colleagues and colleagues. On a case-by-case basis, I will tell you that there are profitable businesses, corruption at the expense of people who have suffered negative consequences or the damage of 200-year mining. In 2005, the Fund of Agricultural Lands of the Republic of Slovenia requested the transfer of the mining land - I speak for the area of Zasavja - to the country or the Fund of Agricultural Lands. A few months ago, Minister Vizjak commended him kindly or spoke of the country's obedience to the country that the same land that had been estranged by the ministry or the state would return to Trbovlje, Zagorje, Hrastnik. In 2003, a decision was taken and signed by the mining inspector, Mr Andrej Lugarič. This Decision states that waste disposal, which is not the result of exploration and exploitation of mineral raw materials in the mining area, is prohibited. Waste disposal is not allowed. Time limit: to be implemented on a permanent basis is set out in point 10 of that Decision. A while ago, the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for this area, received quite a few specific indications which suggest that the mining inspectorate's decision is not being implemented. SCT needed a location for the disposal of extra material from the construction site in Rome's Toplice. It is true that caves that are intertwined practically throughout the whole of Zasavlje need to be repaired. And with this material from the Roman Towers, from the construction site, the mine shaft was poured. The Ministry is nothing to you, no one is responsible in this country. Despite the fact that they are very profitable businesses, respected colleagues and colleagues. On this account, at the expense of violating government documents, someone has made a great deal of money. Projects are undoubtedly very profitable businesses. No one controls individual projects. Tell me if the law we are talking about today will really help to ensure that the financial resources are shared fairly. It is the Minister of Economy who is responsible for the implementation of the decisions and the rate of payment for the recovery of the consequences of mining works. Ministry of Economy. Are we going to re-adopt the submarital acts, any decisions, any rules outside the law, on the basis of what is enshrined in this law? I'm afraid that the people who pay for their houses today, which are collapsing for them today, will not get what they deserve. And it is not clear from this law, respected colleagues and colleagues, who and what financial assistance will be obtained in the context of the recovery of the consequences of mining. Last but not least, I hope to get an answer to whether this law applies and to what extent also to those places or mines that have specific closure laws. I hope to get a follow-up answer. On the basis of the answers, we will consider supporting this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The bill allows the collection of funds to remedy the consequences of mining works. The funds paid with advances will be paid by each mining right holder to a special account for each acquirer's space separately. This will provide direct control for each concessionaire individually. For the collection and management of funds paid for the recovery of the consequences of mining works, the amendment of the law authorizes the Environment Fund. By means of invoices or sub-accounts for each individual concessionaire, it will have a thorough review of the payments for the rehabilitation of the individual acquisition spaces degraded by mining works, as well as the use of funds. Separate recording of the funds paid will be ensured, as well as a preventable flow of funds from one sub-account to another and unintended use of funds, and the solidarity of concessionaires will also be excluded. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law also implement Directive 2006/21 of the European Council, the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the management of waste from mining and other exclusive activities and amending Directive 2004/35 of the European Council, which requires financial guarantees prior to each use of inert waste for the purpose of recovery. The proposal that we have before us regulates and makes order in the area of addressing the consequences of mining and returning these objects to a state that is appropriate for nature. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a mining law seeks to empower the Ecological Fund to collect and manage funds paid to remedy the consequences of mining. This will show all payments and, of course, the use of funds. They shall ensure that the unintended use of these funds is prevented. The effect of the law or amendments to the law will be to increase the efficiency of the collection and management of land rehabilitation funds degraded by mining operations into space. These funds will also be intended to remedy the consequences of nature interventions if the concessionaire does not do so on various grounds alone. The decision that part of the revenue from the extraction of mineral raw materials is intended to address the consequences in nature is certainly necessary, but this is not entirely new. However, it would be necessary to ensure the greater impact of local communities where the activity is carried out and where the degradation of the space arises. We have a lot of experience in individual environments with the consequences of mining and by eliminating the negative effects on the environment. However, in addressing the consequences, it will certainly be necessary to go beyond thinking that it is enough to heal wounds in nature, but it will also be necessary to consider a fund to finance the development of areas where mineral raw material or ore has been obtained and it has been impossible to plan development in these areas by way of intervention. We can also call this a limited use of space. However, the text, as it is basically written, is not acceptable for the Group of Social Democrats. We condition our support by adopting the amendment that has been tabled. This amendment is the result of the amendment tabled by a fellow Member from the Zares Group, Mr Aloyz Posedel, after talking with us. In order to harmonise the text, we have not tabled our amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. In order to support the text transmitted by Velenje Coal, which was in line with international accounting standards and at the request of the auditors, it was necessary to establish long-term provisions for rehabilitation and closing works. Therefore, such an environmental fund cannot raise and allocate funds, in particular in the case of Velenje Coal. With reference to Velenje's coal mine, we fully agree with the Group of Social Democrats and we will support the proposed amendment. It is, of course, surprising or disappointing to note that it is illogical to close the Skala Cave in Velenje in the manner described in its letter Velenje Coal. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that this closure, like all others in Slovenia, would require a special law and, of course, the financial means to be used by this law. While we know the Minister for Economy's assessment that this was delayed in the previous term. However, this does not change the facts, but it would be directly mocking if we now indirectly abolish the envisaged establishment of a long-term reservation for the rehabilitation and closure of the works and transfer those funds, which the coal mine also devotes to the closure of the Skala cave and the rehabilitation of the degraded areas, to the Environment Fund. So they took it from the environment where the consequences came from, or where the consequences are still coming from, they transferred it to the Environment Fund and the Environment Fund would then have these resources and would also be able to sanitize the area. This is, of course, unacceptable and, therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats we also support the amendments tabled. We will support the draft amendments in the Group of Social Democrats if an amendment is adopted to eliminate this previously introduced option. We estimate that the willingness to adopt this amendment in the National Assembly is large enough to make it almost certain that this amendment will be adopted and that this deficiency, which is enshrined in the basic text of this Act, will be eliminated by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	Good-bye. Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this law is very important, although it is quite simple. Why simple? Because it's only logical, if you went into the room and demolished it, you have to fix it, or you have to clean it up, like one of the predecessors said before, either you're a child or you're an adult. The proposal for a mining law in the field of mining of Slovenia introduces the collection and management of funds paid to remedy the consequences of mining works in the authorised Environmental Fund. The Fund will thus take care of the collection, management and purpose of these funds, which will be collected in a special transaction account and can only be used for the purpose for which they have also been collected. This change will make the area of recovery more equitable than in the previous law. The environmental fund will have, through accounts or sub-accounts, a thorough overview and review of the payments and the use of the individual concessionaire's funds. In New Slovenia, we will also support the amendment to Article 10a, which takes away the obligation to pay to the Environment Fund from those mines that have already concluded concessions by the date of implementation of the law. Certain mines in Slovenia, for example, Velenje Coal, have already developed long-term reserves for rehabilitation and closing works in accordance with international accounting standards and at the request of auditors. These mines are therefore already carrying out insurance instruments. The targeting of such guaranteed funds to the Environment Fund in these mines would thus not make sense. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill because we believe that the changes will bring a fairer and more transparent review of the use of funds paid to remedy the consequences of mining.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We have two amendments, namely Article 2 of the Zares Group, which is the amendment to the new Article 10a of SDS and NSI. First of all, I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Really Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Members, we have indeed tabled this amendment on a proposal for a law, which we believe has a different purpose than it will have after the implementation and adoption of this amendment or the amendment of the coalition. The explanation on the parental committee said that the Environment Fund was being introduced because so far nothing was paid to ensure that concession holders were not decommissioned and that no funds were reserved. This has been explicitly written and therefore it has not been clearly recorded as to who this amendment applies. And given the knowledge that some mines, such as Velenje Mines and closing mines, have this in line with international accounting standards or with special law, we have warned of this and explicitly exclude those who have so far allocated the necessary funds to this recovery in a way that eliminates it, say those who have a special law or those who already apply it in accordance with international accounting standards. And I am sure that this dictatorship is more correct, because, otherwise, all those who have a valid concession will be without the need and without the obligation to provide funds with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Mr. Posedel, thank you very much. I exceptionally allowed you to explain this on behalf of the motioners, because the time of your parliamentary group has passed. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that we support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party and we estimate that this amendment is the only meridian and credible amendment to complement the bill we are talking about because it has very clear provisions because it accurately states why it does not apply the provisions of the law that are supposed to be adopted today. This is also the case if you look very closely so that you can actually get into a conflict between the two laws. Today, which will be adopted, by that law, which already provides precisely for the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, this content is precisely defined. With all due respect and conviction that the amendment tabled by the four coalition groups is well-intentioned, it is very unclear, very weak and completely different from the amendment we are talking about. If, therefore, colleagues and colleagues, we want to complete this law, the essence of which is good, and which we want to have to make it to perfection, so that we do not change it every "quatra" once, let us agree once and socially support the amendment of the Zares Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Of course, the new mining law is welcome and we will support it in the Group of Social Democrats. I will also vote in favour, of course, under one precondition already mentioned by my colleague Bojan Kontic, to adopt the amendment of the Zares Group, which sets out more precisely Article 62a than proposed by the Government. However, with this amendment from the Group of Ambassadors, I would really like to express one great surprise. Yesterday, when we discussed the amendment of the Idrian Mine Act or the new law on prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine, which I sent to the government procedure and was rejected by the ruling coalition by 38 votes against and 25 votes against, which we contributed to the opposition, it is interesting and surprising that indeed the Zares Group voted against this law 100%. I don't know why they rejected this bill yesterday, which I proposed, because none of the Members did indeed define themselves for this law on behalf of the Group of Members, nor did any of the members of the Group of Members of Parliament really discuss the law. But let's just let it go. That's another story. The responsibility for non-admission of this law goes to the ruling coalition, which followed the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the Idrian Mine Act is not necessary because a government regulation already regulates everything. Too bad there wasn't a mags minister in the hall yesterday. A vision that he too would explain more. He sent a second team, the secretary of state, but he probably had some provincial obligations before the referendum. But that's not the subject of this law. But I would like to ask the Minister because he is here today and because colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš discussed and colleague Barovic how to deal with these mines that are already closing or are just before they close. How about those mines that are already closed, and the consequences remain in the environment? How's that gonna work out? It is necessary to know that it is not enough that when a mine closes itself to lock its doors in a cave, in administrative premises, to over-employ people, but the consequences of long-standing, large-scale mining, in an Idrian case of half a thousand years of mining, these consequences also need to be remedied, because the consequences are great. They don't just show up in these abandoned trenches, in land movements, in dives. They're also on the air. For example, Rudnik uranium Žirovski vrh in the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane, this environment is essentially already burdened by radioactive radiation. This year, the government coalition adopted a special regulation for limited use of space in this particular case. On 4 March 2008, the Official Journal adopted a Regulation fixing the area and the amount of the refund due to the limited use of space in the Uranium Mine area of the Žirovski Summit. And the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane was acquitted in 2008 of up to 4 million 317 thousand euros in compensation for limited use of space. However, when we adopted the Idrian Mine Act yesterday, and when this solution was also provided for in this law to be compensated for limited use of space, the ruling coalition did not support it. Apparently, it's about double standards and duplicity of government. One is allowed something, the other is not allowed. Of course, if they suggest it, then it is accepted, but if someone else suggests it, or if we suggest it from the opposition, you will reject it smoothly. So it's not just about closing mines to repair these trenches, it's about repairing broader problems. For example, with us, the environment is burdened with radon. We have more than 60 different waste dumps in the city. At these points, buildings that need to be repaired have grown in decades and centuries. Or ionizing radiation, or perhaps, is still eliminated from the nethers of Idrija and this area about 1,700 kilograms [1,700 kg] of mercury, which is then collected by Idrija and Soča in the Gulf of Markets and burdened the wider environment. These are all problems that will have to be solved in the long run. And I want to know how mines that are closed or will still be closed or closed can count on funds based on this solution that we are considering today. That would be my question to Minister Mag. A visionary who did not participate yesterday in the debate in the National Assembly or before yesterday, I apologize, Mr Minister. I'll wait for Comrade Anderlich and the Minister to agree, and then I'll proceed. That's good. On Wednesday, the Minister did not participate in the discussion on the Idrija mine, but sent his State Secretary's Assembly to the National Assembly, which did not have very many arguments when he explained the rejection of this law and today I would like to ask the Minister how this law will affect those mines that are in the closing phase, which have been closed or will only be closed before they close. Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that we are discussing the amendment of the Really to Article 2. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	Thank you very much. This answer to Commissioner Bevek's question is very much linked to this amendment. This is because existing mines are closed by closed programmes, which are adopted and revised, the government has confirmed them, and funds are provided for this, and they are made up of key three elements, not only a lock at the door of the ditch, but they are closing works in the cave itself, they are a human and social programme and they are an ecological programme. Usually all the programs in these three elements are composed, these elements are evaluated and then they are done. However, this law has no effect on things back or on these closing works that are already under way. And what is very important is why the Government also opposes this amendment of the Zares Group. Because he doesn't solve the problem, he blurs it out. Financial reservations are thus more or less affluent thirsty to resolve open issues. A financial reservation is an instrument that is shown in a book somewhere, and if it is a large amount of funds, it is a big question whether this money will be available when necessary. Imagine that this Parliament would not have adopted the Nuclear Power Plant Decommissioning Act years ago and formed a special fund where money is deliberately collected, noble and spinning, and is available for these works. If this were only within the framework of some financial reserves, in order to avoid a specific fund physically, the question of whether this money would be available when necessary. And the question of whether money will also be available through financial reserves when needed by certain mines. That is why we support in the transitional provisions of the coalition amendment, which says that, for existing concession contracts, including those relating to coal mines, provisions cannot be retroactively enforced, and these instruments, which, at this time, are also sufficient for them to continue. However, when the new concession contract is on the table, we will also define these obligations under the new concession contracts in accordance with this amendment of the law. All obligations and concession contracts entered into are normally and formally disputed in order to interfere with the law in this concession relationship. And we do not interfere, intervene, or lay the groundwork solely for the new regulation of relations in mining law, and therefore the matter from now on applies. I therefore believe that what the Group of Members proposes is a lower standard to actually recover after the end of economic exploitation. The financial provision is a lower standard than the dedicated fund. You can believe that because it's an accounting operation, someone takes something away, it probably looks very nice on the balance sheet, and at the end of the day, it can't be. But if it is a special fund, it is money, and that is the purpose and purpose of this law. Once again, honourable Members and Members, the duty of recovery, to clean up after each other, as a Member has said, this is already an obligation. The obligation to clean up after himself is already there. The law only introduces a guarantee that this happens, a special fund, a dedicated collection of money during the active age of the mine or other things, such as sand diggers or other matters, that during the active period physical money is also collected to actually guarantee that it cleans up after itself. Telling someone to clean up after himself isn't enough, I'm afraid. It is also necessary to have guarantees and the law introduces only guarantees. The law does not impose a duty to settle this, this duty is already very clearly stated. The law introduces guarantees for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Check-in is on. Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Somehow, I get the feeling that there is a certain confusion about the adoption of this law through a variety of information. I can even agree with the Minister that the financial reservation itself does not have the weight of a dedicated fund. However, the funds collected deliberately in the Environment Fund do not have the same weight as the funds collected in the company where the damage is caused. I'm not sure - Mr. Minister, you'll have the opportunity to answer if you think it's worth it, so keep quiet blood and keep a close eye on the meeting, I've listened to you too. The point is that the funds must remain where the damage is caused in the environment. And two days ago, when we discussed the law of which Mr Bevk proposed, I said that I was missing the more important influence of the local community in all these stories. Anyone other than the local community, where such a company operates, is more interested in the removal of the consequences and the limited use of space also generates resources for the further development of this space. I am sure that if we thought as has been said today, of course we could regret once again that all mines or all caves in Slovenia do not close in a comparable way. For the last time, I also mentioned that it could be arranged by one law, but it is probably impossible in one law to list all mines, all caverns, and perhaps it is better to regulate each one with his own law. Of course, in a comparable way, on a comparable basis. And perhaps we should think in this direction that, as I said, local communities have more opportunities to influence both the state-owned business, we are talking about a state-owned company, as well as the late recovery of the degraded area. And when we talk about financial reservations and that it may happen to us that when we need money we will find that this money is not there, I remind you once again that it is - at least in our case it is a state-owned enterprise. And if the state is the owner, of course, it is almost impossible to agree that someone could say, and now the state has nothing to do with it. This was a state-owned enterprise, but now there is no money, and now you can fix it yourself in the way you agree in the local community. The amendment of the Zares Group is a good amendment; especially because it retains the existing law in this way at the moment, but, of course, in the new allocation of rights, it is possible to understand from the forecast that the situation will change and that, at the moment that happens, this role will also be given to the Environment Fund. That's why I'm going to support the amendment of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	Thank you. The Mining Act does not have a regulated relationship with mines that have already been closed, and environmental damage is caused by underground events that are the result of mining. In my opinion, the environmental fund should be designed primarily to allow for the rehabilitation of areas of mines that are already closed and do not have a specific law to deal with this problem, and it is certainly the Mining Act as well as those that should also take into account the fact that is happening in nature. I therefore wonder whether the Environment Fund, which is responsible for the collection, management and purposeful use of the funds derived from the payment for the rehabilitation of mining works, is also responsible for the resolution of environmental matters arising in the area of mines that are already closed. The specific problems here arise, in particular, either because of the self-inflicted coal generated in an area where the heifery has been deposited, as well as a large mixture of organic ingredients, as well as the access of oxygen to such areas, causes underground self-inflicted self-inflicted, which then causes an exceptional ecological burden on the environment, either due to smoke itself or because of the very personality of this emissions that actually enters the atmosphere. That is why, Minister, I am interested in whether the organic fund is actually competent to react in such cases, and if not, what will we do in the future so that we can effectively solve these problems, and is it only the congregation that has to provide funds in such a way or another way to address such environmental problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Minister, you haven't fully answered the questions asked. I will give you a very specific example, because on specific occasions it is easier to build. The Trbovlje mine, or saviva mine, which is still in operation and is in lockdown, has its own law, has reserved funds in the closure process, based on the law. The law sets out how much funding will be allocated for this project in the period until closure, including rehabilitation. I suppose so, Minister of Economy. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Budget resources But the law is the basis that provides the amount of budgetary resources and you as a drafter or contributor in the preparation of the budget are obliged to provide financial resources under the law. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] You guarantee them. [[...]] And on the basis of certain works envisaged, concessions have already been concluded for the execution of works. Also for filling the mines of those who are already closed, not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	I would ask of you, honored both of you, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	allow, is connected [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	That this would not be a question here in front of me, but please, if you would state your position, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš. [[...]] Just you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Thank you very much. But the one who jumps into the word, rudely and neolyticly, is the minister. When the Minister has the floor, he does not answer the question, so allow me to finish, Madam President. The issue is undoubtedly related to the amendment and, as I know, the debate is under way on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	I gave you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Amendments. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	I gave you my word, and I repeat, just you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	Thank you very much again, Mr President. The concessions are signed. You said that those concessions that are already under way or under implementation, the law that we are adopting today, will not apply. Everything's fine and fine. I gave earlier an example of pouring a mine or cave Trbovlje-Hrastnik. Even contrary to that government decision, the inspectorate's decision is being carried out. This is also an important segment, Minister, in what way a matter is handled or carried out - contrary to the 2003 decision! I'm asking you what's going to happen in the suture pit. Maybe some kind of hazardous waste?Oh, my God! God knows. This is controlled by you or the Ministry of Environment and Space. But let's move on to the part that this amendment touches. For all the other concessions that will be concluded on a new one, the financial resources, I understand, will go out of the ecosystem as the money will be deposited on the ecosystem. I ask whether this means that Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik will not, on the basis of his law, receive the remaining financial resources for rehabilitation, for closing works, for the human and social programme, for the ecological programme. I ask because we have not received the answer, and this money, which, on the basis of the law already intended for these works, will be translated into an ecosystem - I very plastically say, Minister, because I want to clarify certain facts that are not visible or clear on the basis of the law - these financial resources will be invested in the ecosystem, the ecosystem, you - the Ministry of Economy is responsible for monitoring the allocation of funds and therefore the ecosystem will not share among all the mines what amount of funds and I do not know on the basis of what calculations. You, I say, are breathing deeply, Minister of Economy, we don't need this at this session. We need concrete answers and please provide a concrete answer to the question raised. Is this marriage also valid for those mines that have their own marriage and on what basis will financial resources be shared?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the Minister, I see you want to discuss it. And only about the second amendment to Article 2. Yeah, okay. In the meantime, allow only the application for the next round. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	Just for a little while. The existing law does not apply to mines and the proposed legislation does not apply to mines with a concession contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. We are discussing the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I have been thinking about how to define myself for the proposed amendment, and perhaps it would be good if I could tell everyone something about the fact that Members might have a slightly clearer issue regarding the rehabilitation and closure of the mine. Maybe not everyone knows the specifics of Velenje Coal. In Coal Velenje, rehabilitation takes place throughout the area of the extraction area. So, we can't talk here about how recovery will take place when the mine closes, but this rehabilitation needs to be carried out every day. And perhaps it is right to say that the Coal Command is actually doing this rehabilitation in a exemplary manner. If he did not carry out this rehabilitation, then today Šostanje would no longer exist, because there is a 9m altitude difference between Velenj and Šostjanj Lake, where the mining causes the embankment to collapse continuously, and if these rehabilitations were not carried out daily, this mass, water, Velenj Lake Šostjanj would be carried away. Once again, in Velenje the rehabilitation will not be possible only at the conclusion, it is said when the mine is closed, but this rehabilitation must be carried out daily. The lake’s coasts are changing daily, and if the coal mine did not take care of the opposite management of these matters, the environment would in fact be degraded and impossible for the normal life of the surrounding population. It is right to say once again that the coal mine is truly doing this rehabilitation, that this area, which is already dying, can be used for the recreational area, that we can establish the Skal Lake as a tourist and bathing lake and that certain activities can also be carried out in the mining field. And I am sure that Coal Velenje will take such exemplary care of the rehabilitation of the degraded area in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I don't know if business is possible, I'm afraid I don't think that the government would give a little more time to answer, because they only have 20 seconds left, but I think they've reported too little time, five minutes is not enough time for any serious discussion about these amendments. In fact, the area of ecological recovery and the recovery of the consequences of mining are essentially regulated in very different ways, of course, the basic is the Mining Act, some things are being remedied by regulations as previously quoted by the limited compensation regulation for limited use of premises in the case of the Urinian Urinian Žirovski vrh in the municipality of Gorenje Vas, Poljane. We also have another law that can relate to the consequences of mining, which is the Nuclear Safety and ionising Radiation Act. In fact, when I wanted to bring this matter into my marriage four years ago, it was said that this law regulated it. In fact, it only deals with words, but when something needs to be done on the basis of some standard, it was not possible. In this case, the State itself does not respect the laws adopted by the National Assembly; that is, it was said that the kindergarten in Idrija should be rehabilitated on the basis of this law, that the State is responsible for the rehabilitation of public school, cultural and other facilities that are burdened by ionising radiation, but did not provide money, even though it was a State obligation under this law. We were rescued by the financial mechanism of the Norwegian government and this afternoon the rehabilitated kindergarten in Idrija will be opened in the presence of representatives of the Norwegian government. Thus, the problem of the recovery of the effects of mining in different mines is different and it is appropriate to place all these different solutions on one common denominator. It is not necessarily one law for all the mines that close. It is better that each mine has its own marriage, each mine has its own specifics, and this should be in different laws, with some common denominator. In this way, I would suggest that, by the end of the term of office, there is not much time left, but that the expert services at the ministries could check all this different legal arrangement and then propose one single sample to remedy the consequences of mining and to remedy the environmental consequences that each such mine has for long-term mining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	Thank you very much, again. Minister, if the matter were as simple as you want to show today, then the committee probably wouldn't have been so divisive and not even members of the government coalition would have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The law, as proposed by you, allows for the possibility that the financial resources that are now intended under special laws for the rehabilitation of mines or mining will be shared "free through Prešern" on the basis of your decision. The Group is indeed proposing to set clear rules for the game - who, in what way and who will be able to share financial resources from the Eco Fund. I am afraid, but I truly believe that I am afraid, Minister, you say - yes, you have given protection to the next article or amendment that the law does not apply to concession contracts that have already been concluded. What about the new concession contracts that fall within a period of time during which the mine must be closed and all the remedial works carried out? What's going to happen to these new concession contracts? These will be financed by the Eco Fund. You're nodding. They will be financed from the Eco Fund. This means that the quota of funds currently earmarked under a specific law will be converted to an eco-consolidation, and you will share the financial resources from the Ecosystem according to your key. This may mean damage, in particular, to a large - scale mine, a trebwell mine, and probably another mine. Give this answer, Minister, what is provided by the quota of funds allocated under the specific law must be provided in the budgets for each period or year. What does it mean for these mines and for concession contracts that have not yet been concluded, certain specific works are already envisaged and financial resources are also provided for.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I can see the hands. Now I'm going to open the applications again, and whoever wants to sign up, please, not every ten, fifteen minutes for one hand. Yeah, that's what I'm asking, if you'll please, okay, if you don't, no. Check-in is on. Only Mr. Martin Mikolitch applied. In the meantime, someone else can apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Well, you know, the debates encourage you to discuss it, or I wouldn't even sign up. But, president, I'm surprised that the two amendments to this article are why you didn't give us the opportunity to discuss [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, he's 10. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	One's canceled. We got two. Once again, we are discussing two amendments, the first, the only amendment to Article 2 of the Zares Group, and we will also discuss the amendment to the so-called new 10a article of the coalition parties. Understand?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Thank you. Look, about this amendment, I will not support it, I will support the amendment proposed by the coalition. The law is quite clear and the law is quite clear, as this is why I will not support this amendment. You know, I'm surprised at the debate when some talk only about mining as a mine. This law is prepared to remedy the degradation in space by exploiting mines, minerals, and I don't know what else is underground and above the ground. And the law is particularly very good for those projects, for those rehabilitations that will have to be implemented in the future. And why did the government prepare this marriage? I'm pretty sure it's because there's been some kind of mess. And here now, will the money go where you should go, for recovery - thoughts! These are earmarked funds in the Eco Facility. However, those who, from the time of the adoption of the law, will be required to re-enter the game will have to legally allocate financial resources to the fund. That's how I understand it. A practical example, if a cubic of grammose now costs so much and so much money, will be from that day forward, because it will also have to be allocated for this – because it should actually have already been calculated if it has not yet, but now it will have to calculate it. If I make it even easier, because today we are also disbursing financial resources into the PSI for our pension years, because we probably don't have this self-discipline, if someone gives us money today to use it when we're done with the work relationship. As a result, however, there is also an STIZ where pension funds are pooled. The law is good, urgently needed for us to make more order in Slovenia, so that they do not stay when certain activities in the field of exploitation of mines are completed and leave the whole thing degraded and excuse that there are no adequate financial resources for this. On the one hand, I support the law and on the other hand the amendment proposed by the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	Thank you very much. There are no other debaters. Mr. Secretary, I give you my word. I warn you, you have 29 seconds to go, but since there have been quite a few questions for you to explain, please and I am giving you the opportunity to explain them, but very briefly. Who is opposed to my decision? Neither did Mr. Anderlich, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief. First of all, on the questions raised by Ambassador Žgajner Tavševa. The closure of existing mines is carried out in accordance with the programmes adopted and for these programmes, including the financial part, funds are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the closing parts of existing coal mines will not be financed by the Environment Fund. They're not going to. They're going to be from the budget just like they've been before. For these were already granted concession rights, concession contracts. And when they're out, there'll be no new ones, because the mine's closed. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Therefore, these existing and already concluded concession contracts will not be subject to the law. Why? Of course, we would like it to apply, but it cannot apply, because we cannot interfere with the law in the existing concession relationship, because it was concluded on some grounds that were in force at the time, and this would be illegal, probably also unconstitutional. This is why the law applies to new concession contracts, either as an extension of old concession relations, this is likely to be the case with one and the only coal mine, that is, Coal Velenje. Therefore, nothing will be shared from this Environment Fund for coal miners, nothing. At least arbitrarily, over the thumb or anything else. Therefore, all coal mines have the money provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted by the National Assembly and, honourable Members, you decide how much the mine receives in closing. This has always been the case, and this law does not provide for any other solution to this issue. This law introduces that for new concession relationships, not existing ones, for new, exclusively, once again, only for new concession relations, it will be necessary, in addition to the obligations in the concession contract, to provide funds for ecological or later recovery, in order to establish a guarantee in addition to this obligation - how? - so that the honourable Vice-President is deliberately gathered, I apologize, but the Member will probably ask me again because she is not listening, and I will get the same question that I have already answered three times, and I will answer once again, honourable Member. [[...]] So, the Environment Fund will be some sort of sub-account of all concessionaires, on which it will deliberately raise money for him alone and only as much as he will pay. And these funds will be available. Well, that's his dislocated account. That it is in a special fund is that it is a guarantee that this money will actually remain, without actually spending it in any kind of trouble. We therefore oppose the amendment of the Zares Group because the essence of this amendment is that this account is not dislocated, but it is a kind of financial reservation within the company. Normally, I also understand why - because if this money is not later, then the budget will cover it. And there's no physical money for that either. Financial reservations are, we all know, an accounting term, this money is not physically available. And when the mine needs to be closed, but it needs to have physical money, then financial reservations mean nothing to us, nothing, nothing! But I know where the motive is. The motive is that, of course, the company has this money, if it does not have it in the end, it will, as it has so far covered the budget. It's the intention of this amendment and the motioners, so it is, and we all know it, and we don't say it differently now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	One more thing. So there's no solidarity in the organic fund. So if a sand digger pays money for recovery, he'll only have as much money as he'll pay for his sub-account and nothing more. And if someone else runs out of money, they won't be able to redistribute funds from the rest of the sub-accounts, the other environmental fund sand diggers. In short, it is a dislocated account for the rehabilitation of individual mining rights and a guarantee that it will actually be remedied after the end. It does not affect existing concession contracts and does not affect the financing of existing closing coal mines.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Please, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš. There's something I'd like to ask you. Mr. Minister has taken advantage of his time, and I have given him an additional opportunity to explain all your questions. It would not be right to ask him again because he cannot answer. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. The Minister had the opportunity to report more time if he wished to discuss substantively and specifically and also to listen to serious warnings. I believe you know that it is the Minister who declares the time for each session to begin. The National Assembly jumped to his aid and gave him extra time. I believe we wouldn't be able to help the Members if we were running out of time and, I'll say, so benevolent. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	I just came to your aid because you're not talking about the 2nd Article amendment, you're talking about something completely different. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	I still have 7 minutes of time left in the Lipa Group in advance, Mr President. So let me re-expose, not the dilemma that you have raised only in my head, but the dilemmas that have led to the amendments being tabled and a broad and controversial debate has taken place on the working body. Is marriage really that good? Does Article 2 of the existing law really make the rules so clear? Then why do we need the Eco Fund? Why, then, if this law is indeed a guarantee that all remedial work will be carried out within a certain period of time to the intended extent? Why? I'm asking why. The concessionaires will have to invest in the Eco Fund so that they can then draw back from the Eco Fund. It's some kind of transaction. In each case, we have so many and so many intermediaries, so many and so many people who receive here and there financial resources for the transactions they carry out. Is the marriage really that good? And if the law were so good, I don't understand why it was put into the next article or in the next article, Article 10a, the government or amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, which we know exactly that it was dictated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Economy. And, Minister, it is not true that the responsibility of the National Assembly, all 90 Members, is for the financial resources allocated by you in the framework of the budget! That is not true, it is only the responsibility of your government Members who blindly support your decisions and also the financial resources you allocate under the budget. Kolga Barovic or - no, several Members were signed under the law prepared by his colleague Barovic. The Act on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, which extended the closure period and also increased the financial resources for the necessary rehabilitation. I hope that when you visit these places, not only when it is necessary to do so, I do not know, the media attention that you have visited a particular region, but also to visit them for other reasons or other content. And you'll see what happened in the context of that recovery that was supposed to happen. What's going on in RTH led by SDS, SDS people run the RTH mine, the Trbovlje-Breeding Mine? How speculating it is how money is transferred, how it works with people, what contracts people have to conclude that these treaties are bound by secrecy, so that no information can be transmitted to the public! If they're in contact with the media, they can get hit by a rescue, and that means losing their job. But you are responsible for this, you are being watched as a departmental ministry over what is happening in the mine, including Trbovlje-Krastnik. Once again, Minister, I am sorry that you have not reported more time, but I am afraid that if these matters are not more specifically completed, there will be what I said at the outset, that large amounts of funding will be lost again at the expense of those places or those mines that should be given appropriate rehabilitation programmes and should also have these appropriate rehabilitation programmes 100% realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 2, so we are moving on to a new Article 10a, or amendment for a new Article 10a of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich Bogdan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that these two articles are so substantively linked that it is right for everyone to give an opinion and an opinion. We have now heard first of all arguments for and against the amendment to Article 2 of the Zares Group. Now it would be good to hear all the positive and bad about the amendment to Article 10. Once again, I understand the message delivered by the Minister, or perhaps - I have so many amendments to apologize; yes, I have found it - or perhaps a coalition. But look, I'll be very specific. "Article 2 shall not apply to concession contracts concluded until the date of the entry into force of this Act." It is, of course, true what the Minister has said that this now applies to all those specifically to Velenje and to Trbovlje. I claim that this amendment grants discharges to those concessionaires who had before, who have a concession before the law is in force and who are still implementing it. It means: although they are still implementing it, they do not have any responsibility under this provision to the new Environment Fund. Because if someone said to someone: look, now we've adopted a law that binds you that you have to do what it says in Article 2a or Article 10, he's going to say no. It clearly states in the amendment that the provisions apply only to concession contracts concluded after the entry into force of this Treaty but not to those concluded until the date. There's no lawyer he can't give me right. Meaning, I don't always want to - I prefer to think positively and come from a positive - that one who is a lump; but we know that there are such a lot, not just from this government, even from previous ones who do not meet their obligations, either for the reason that it is very clear here. One reason - because the regulation already provides for this, the Minister also stressed that the duty already exists that this is only a financial guarantee - is that the Regulation on the fixing of payments for the recovery of the consequences of mining works has not been implemented so far because sanctions could not be assessed because they were not complete projects and documentation and so on. These concessionaires, who will receive this right with this amendment, will be a million people who will say, "You know, I can't enforce the law either, as the regulation does, because there is no such thing, there is no such thing, and because of the amendment to Article 10 we don't need it. We are not bound!" That's what's ambiguous! The law itself would have been required 15 years ago to provide some financial means to make certain places, whether it be a sandstone or a mine of coal, mercury or whatever it is to be repaired, properly repaired. There is another problem with this law or with funds from the Environment Fund. I have no idea of the financial values. I have understood, Mr Minister, that as much as someone will invest in the Environment Fund, so much will be guaranteed from this Fund specifically, deliberately returned to recovery. I do not know how, in what way this payment to the Environment Fund is determined, what is the criterion for full recovery. I'm speaking physically with the money that will gather at the Environmental Fund. I also understand that the state wants to avoid and say - wow, and now I'm not paying for something because you had money and you spent it elsewhere. That's true on the one hand, if that money someone had was government money, he spent it on something else. On the other hand, if the State is the owner, the State will pay this money for this rehabilitation because it owns it, not the Ecological Fund. The environmental fund, however, will pay and guarantee the amount of funds it will bring. Which is why I don't know now, the concessionaire voted out by Article 10a, the one for whom this law will not apply because the concession contract has already been concluded and leads on - will he pay or won't pay at all? If he pays, will he pay as much as the one who will be bound by the new law? In short, with this amendment there are so many unknowns and so many facts that can be controversial, despite, I believe, a good purpose to really define and focus a person, whether or not we will hit a nail on the head. This will give us control over the resources, the deliberate use of these means of recovery, but at the level that it will gather, and this is it. And that's all. And of course, if someone goes bankrupt or accidentally dies or anything, these means guarantee that the matter will be rectified. The saddest thing about everything is that there is a duty and, of course, a regulation, but so far it has not been implemented and that is why it is the law. Okay, that's good. Now the question is whether this law will be implemented or not, who will implement it. If not now, all concessionaires will seek to have the concession back and that this law does not apply to them. Therefore, for the Slovenian National Party, this amendment to Article 10a is disputed because it is unclear because it does not provide precise answers. Because we don't know if we're going to give someone a pardon for their sins and let him keep doing what he's doing. Or that it would be the one who would demand from the State that the state would give the money instead of giving it itself because it would not be bound by this law; this could also happen if we accepted this amendment. The amendment of the Zares Group is much clearer and clear, including by taking into account the Minister's opinion and opinion. However, if it is in a company, in my opinion, a certain guarantee fund, which has dedicated funds, I do not think they can spend much money on the left and right, even though the state may have a word in particular in Velenje Mine. I think that the Guarantee Fund is a guarantee fund that has funds for this rehabilitation and that there is no fear that these funds will be given for the football game. I think it's also impossible to do it legally and otherwise. Thus, stronger arguments are, at least as far as the Slovenian national parties are concerned and more likely, greater precision is that the law is true. Once again, I say why, because after this amendment, I am sure that all concessionaires who already have a contract and will implement it will not and will not be bound by this amendment to adopt the law today. And they'll do the story they used to do, of course. So, we will support the law in case the Zares amendment is also supported. It is a shame, however, that such a law, which has good intentions, is adopted unprepared or refined, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is a pity that it would not be adopted if, of course, it were complemented by having its own function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	Thank you very much. As I note that no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday, 24 June 2008, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ENERGY LAW, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister, Mr Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. The proposed amendment to the Energy Law complements legislation relating to the requirements of the European Commission Decision on the State aid scheme implemented by Slovenia under its legislation on qualified energy producers and also fulfils the commitments to amend the regulations made by the Slovenian party in the course of the investigation procedure with regard to these so-called qualified producers and to support domestic producers of electricity from domestic fossil energy sources, thus making these commitments made by the Commission of Slovenia. So, the solutions proposed are as follows. An essential part of the delayed changes in the energy law is the harmonisation of the Slovenian energy regulation with the views of the European Commission, which were also reflected in the decision on the State aid scheme implemented by Slovenia under its legislation on qualified energy producers. Support to so-called qualified power plants is a form of state aid to protect the environment. The support schemes are in line with the current guidelines for state aid and environmental protection and notified to the Commission. The support will be supported mainly by new or newer power plants that need assistance in amortising the facilities. The aid will be implemented as a guaranteed purchase at a predetermined price covering the own costs of electricity production in these plants or as operating aid in the form of a premium which depends on the market prices of electricity. The aid is to be implemented until the usual depreciation of the facilities, the duration of the support will be aligned with the Commission and will last from 10 to 15 years. The size limit for support is raised for renewable power plants up to 125 megawatts and for cogeneration up to 200 megawatts. A prerequisite for support is also the acquisition of certificates of origin. Thus, in addition to aligning Slovenian legislation with the European Commission's position, aid schemes are more clearly and decisively introduced, and thus the expansion of the use of renewables in electricity production, as well as in cogeneration, i.e. electricity and heat production. This allocates State aid to producers in the context of the guaranteed buy-in as well as specific money covering the difference between the production price and the market price. The next reason for changing the energy law is also the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, which is linked to the efficient use of final energy and energy services. Changes are also envisaged for the efficient use of energy. All energy providers are obliged to conduct savings and efficient use of energy in their customers. They will therefore be entitled to cover the costs as well. Furthermore, the energy law also aims to implement, support the use of domestic energy within 15% of energy consumption, if necessary, and more transparently regulate the activities of the electricity market organiser and the status of qualified producers is also regulated in the transitional provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Martin Mikolić to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act at its 25th emergency meeting on 10 June 2008. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Government, namely the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Environmental Fund, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Energy Chamber. The amendments were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS members and by Alojz Posedel. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has drawn up a number of specific comments on individual articles. The main part of these comments was taken into account by the adoption of the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups and the amendment of the Committee. The Committee also received comments from Marjan Zidarič of Maribor. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the proposer's representative introduced all the major amendments to the legislation in force. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further drew attention to all those comments of the Service which had not been taken into account under the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SLS. In doing so, it reiterated its comments to Articles 9, 17, 20, 37 and 40. Some of these warnings were agreed by both representatives of the bill-maker and members of the committee. Thus, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 37 and 40 at the meeting. The Committee considered all the amendments tabled and adopted amendments from SDS, NSI, SLS to Articles 2, 3, 5, 7, 17, 18, 20, 23, 35, 42 and 50. However, Ambassador Alojz Posedel's amendment to Article 23 was not accepted. The Committee also adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, a complementary draft law, which is an integral part of the report, is being prepared. I suggest we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Thanks again for saying that. Your Honors are here! In the DeSUS Group, we support the adoption of amendments and the addition of legislation governing energy, because we believe that the area needs to be amended. If Slovenia wants to reach and meet the objectives and requirements of the European Union and we are obliged to achieve them. With the drastic increase in electricity consumption and alarming environmental pollution, it is essential to implement measures that effectively reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase the share of renewable primary energy sources and increase energy efficiency. For these purposes, support to power plants with cogeneration of heat and electricity with high efficiency shall be regulated in accordance with the High Efficiency State Aid Guidelines, in accordance with the State Aid Guidelines, as such a way of producing heat and electricity is rational in terms of improved fuel consumption and causes significantly smaller greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, this mode of production means transition not only in terms of increasing the impact of the energy generated and reducing the country's energy import dependence, but also of great importance in meeting the requirements of the Kyoto Agreement. We further welcome the envisaged solutions regarding the creation of an enabling investment environment for all newer and completely new projects, which will also have an impact on the convergence of the targets. Major changes certainly include strengthening the issue of real estate for the construction of energy infrastructure, areas and proof of the right to build energy facilities of national importance. Important obligations of energy suppliers for the implementation of measures are foreseen for the efficient use of final energy, for improving energy efficiency in final customers and for a fairer and cost-stimulating system for calculating heat costs in multi-housing facilities in terms of actual consumption. Members of the DeSUS support the goals that Slovenia wants in the energy field and, finally, must achieve. We also believe that this will be possible on the basis of the planned solutions in this novel, and we will also support the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Have a nice hello to you all. The amendments and additions to the Energy Act were necessary and, of course, we will support them in the Slovenian National Party, in the parliamentary group. However, we have also tabled an amendment that speaks, in fact, of the use of photovoltaic electricity or electricity derived from solar energy. The fact is that the lack of electricity is, in fact, one of the very, very annoying things that the whole European Union is dealing with, is that we are not going further. Today, even electric-powered cars are made, which, according to the local term, are "pump" on a regular switch on electricity. We don't have that kind of development yet, but it's another way. Also, photovoltaic cells are becoming cheaper and more accessible to all people who want to deal with it. Spain even has a law whereby all buildings with more than 400 square metres in one piece must be fitted with a photovoltaic centre. It is true, however, that the problem is here because the State must subsidise certain financial resources due to so-called green or renewable energy. The fact is that I think it would also make sense for us to intervene in these matters in Slovenia. Because in the case of global warming, which is so evident and in the case of climate change, which is happening faster than even scientists have predicted, I think it makes sense to use every possible renewable energy source. Therefore, we also propose that, in the case of buildings whose roof area exceeds 400 square metres, photovoltaic technology must be incorporated here. Maybe the government won't reach out and approve this amendment. However, it would make sense for the Government to take into account the intention of this amendment, to consider these matters and to take this amendment into account at some point in the future, in line with the extremely rapid development of photovoltaics, too. The sustainable development of Slovenia must be geared towards the use of renewable energy sources and it is certainly a renewable energy source, the most renewable of all solar energy. The intentions of some to build wind power plants are calm, calm and mildly missed. It is a desire for terrible profits, where the State should pay concession fees due to the substantial underexploitation of these wind centres, because already in its previous mandate, gentlemen under the command of Minister Kopač have tried to carry out matters together with Elektro Primorsko in certain areas, although protected by Natura 2000, where Mr Kopač has even removed certain areas of his own choosing and it was evident that gentlemen wanted to receive huge financial resources from the country in concessions. Thank God that didn't work, and I hope that they won't succeed in the future, and I'm sure they won't, and we can't allow that. Slovenia buys this allowed redemption price of 0,37 euros per kilohour, but I think it would also make sense to approach the Czech model or the German model that grants concessions for these photovoltaic technologies and which also supports the one that installs photovoltaics with certain larger ones, I would say increases the redemption price that Slovenia has. In short, if not otherwise, I hope that the Government will take into account the intention of this amendment and incorporate it into the law in one way or another unless it approves or allows its own to confirm our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President, with respect to you. Sometimes it is very difficult when a person, a party, in this case Lipa, has a different vision and that this vision would be accepted well-intentioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, it is very difficult to show that there is another better way to go than we have at this point in the field of energy. In the Lipa Group, we believe that our country in this area should first adopt a so-called national strategy, which would expose the integral forms of those deficits that are present in our country today. For the first time, we do not know, a new nuclear power plant within our country - we do not have a social consensus, there are different expert opinions and today we are dealing with individual "per-partes" issues. Secondly, also a question to which we have never received an answer, so-called electromagnetic radiation. Not in connection with the nuke, but in connection with the logistics that transmits the electrical current from one end to the other. I am one of those who, better said in the Lipa Group, believe that our country should, and too bad that we have not already defined it, first define this national strategy in order to see what resources, what resources we will finance in the future from the state budget or from the public-private partnership. What are the positive effects on the environment, and what are the negative impacts on the environment? Why is that? Today, the legislator accepts one kind of route, but only part of this route. In the meantime, of course, we are being carried out, past us, past the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, individual implementing works. Let me only expose the area of Maribor, where it is allegedly because of the management wishes of the Drava power plants Maribor for the individual ownership of individuals from the above-mentioned institution - Drava power plant Maribor, who have planned to purchase parcels, land on the southern part of the route for the construction of so-called holiday accommodation units, have therefore decided to draw the so-called high-voltage cable in northern Maribor. Someone would say that's nice and okay. Always forgetting the area of electromagnetic radiation. That the route will be between 20 and 30 kilometres long, and once again I stress that it is a high-voltage long-distance, despite the fact that all European Union countries avoid these high-voltage long-distance lines, precisely because of the exceptional increase in heart and cancer. But because we do not have a national strategy, because we do not have rules of the game, individuals - investors and subscribers decide to choose the cheapest possible route, i.e. high-voltage power lines that go through a building that goes through settlements where people have lived for many, long years. People have been completely excluded from any public hearing, rather than our country adopting this strategy, and it is not only Maribor's problem that we understand each other, but the so-called strategy adopted by all within Europe, i.e. the so-called cableling. True, the cable system is more expensive. Why is it more expensive? It is more expensive because it takes place underground and has no impact - not on the environment, but does not affect human health or its life. In short, it doesn't cause heart disease and cancer. The price increased for this species is 30%. But only in Slovenia are capital interests much more valued, so that some investment is cheap, although they are in all other places, let Vienna pull this underground cable for over 200 kilometers. Our investor says so, but that's not possible. Is it really that little worth human health in our country? It will now take place as long as "per-partes" we adopt laws that save only one substance. Like I said, we're missing that strategy that would be binding on everyone, let it be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A respected council, a respected minister with a co-worker! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are aware of the importance of solving the problem, which covers both the needs for electricity and the reduction of the environmental burden, so we support all government measures and legislative changes that contribute to solving this problem. The proposal for a Law on Energy Amendments and Supplements follows the objectives of the European Union and thus Slovenia to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, to increase the share of renewable primary energy sources to 20% and to increase energy efficiency by 20%. The European Union, including Slovenia, is becoming increasingly dependent on energy. Energy conditions are constantly changing, so they need to be adapted. The Resolution on the National Energy Programme sets out the long-term development objectives and orientations of energy systems by investing in energy infrastructure and mechanisms to promote renewable energy sources and save energy. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we are convinced that, on the basis of the data available to us and also daily, we feel that immediate action in this area is not only a matter of political will but, first and foremost, a matter of necessity. The goals are challenging and do not allow empty speech, but call for effective action. However, electricity production and cogeneration can contribute significantly to the achievement of these objectives, which requires real and effective changes in investment in new, environmentally friendly production capacities. All these guidelines are followed by the proposed amendment of the Energy Law with two basic objectives: firstly, the harmonisation of the Energy Law with the commitments made by Slovenia to the Commission of the European Union, and secondly, the increased investment in renewable energy plants and cogeneration plants. The two objectives are also followed by changes and additions to the law. Let me make the most important point. Slovenian energy regulation is aligned with the Commission's views on the state aid scheme for qualified energy producers and on support for domestic energy producers. Some provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to ecodesign requirements for energy-intensive products and the efficient use of final energy and energy services are transposed into the Slovenian acquis. New and newer power plants will also be eligible for support in the form of a guaranteed buy-in at a predetermined price covering their own production costs or as operating aid in the form of a premium, an amount which depends on the market prices of electricity. Support for the efficient use of electricity will also allow forms of State aid. Electricity revenues will only be used for efficient use of electricity and not for other purposes than before. The financial resources for the support will be provided with the expected contributions after the connections that will be paid monthly. The changes also concern the energy labelling of household appliances and other manufacturers. A legal basis has also been added for the adoption of operational "prowls" and action plans for energy supply and its use, and the implementation of programmes to improve energy efficiency in final customers is under way for distributors and suppliers. The new law lays down the obligation of the owner of the building to provide for the development of an alternative energy supply system study, to regulate regular air-conditioning inspections and to impose an obligation on operators to calculate heat costs based on the measurement of the heat consumption of each building. Market inspections shall be given the power to control the energy labelling of products and the minimum efficiency of devices. Legal basis shall also be given for the determination of the safety belt and for the duration of the service. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposed amendment of the Energy Act and will also support the proposed amendments that will improve the solutions to individual proposed legislative provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Vice-President, Honourable Minister with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! The advantages of this law have already been much talked out, as was the case with the amendment of the Mining Act, including this proposed amendment and the addition of the Energy Act in the basic text is not best thought out in all segments. I will also draw attention to one on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. And if we have somehow reached a compromise proposal with the amendment that has been tabled in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, an amendment has also been tabled here, which goes in the right direction, but does not address the shortcomings that the Chamber of Commerce has also pointed to. It stated that Article 64m of the proposed law states that support from renewable energy sources is granted for the production of equipment not exceeding 125 megawatts. Given that the reason for the proposed amendment of the law of harmonisation to EU law would, in our view, be more consistent with the European guidelines on state aid for the environment, where it is explicitly stated that it is necessary for the Commission to notify aid in the case of electricity production in those locations where the capacity exceeds 125 megawatts of the rated power plants using exclusively renewable energy for electricity production. The EU's obvious aim is to limit the support of hydropower plants, but not to thermal power plants. In Slovenia you also exclude the proposed law from the Economic Chamber of Slovenia, from a system of support for large producers who use both fossil fuels and renewable energy sources for the production of electricity, where the share of renewable energy sources does not constitute a majority energy. We believe that you are thus discriminatingly creating an unequal position of economic operators on the market. If we are to achieve the targets set for renewable energy in Slovenia, the limits should be eased and all our potentials, including envisaged subsidisation, which is logical of course. Some good intentions, as has been said, can be found in this law. The introduction of obligations for electricity suppliers, heat from the distribution network and gaseous and liquid fuels to ensure increased energy efficiency. The law introduces mandatory calculation of heat costs in several residential buildings and in other buildings with several individual parts based on actual consumption. The final objective must be to make the owner or tenant pay for the use of heat after actual consumption, that is to say, as much as it actually spends. In addition to fairness, this will also be an incentive to implement measures to reduce energy consumption costs. Let me add something to that in the end. In view of the energy-related developments, we will have to find the answers very soon and write them down in the National Energy Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Mr. Mag. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings to the Minister and associate! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia does not oppose the law, but we point out some irregularities that we believe could be better regulated, as energy policy must pursue three key objectives in each country, namely sustainability, second competitiveness and, above all, security of supply and foundation, while the Energy Act represents the system law in the field of energy. What we are particularly concerned about in the Group of Liberal Democracy is the adoption of the new Energy Law, which we are considering today, is an urgent process. Such a procedure for adopting such large-scale changes in such a sensitive and important area as energy is unacceptable in our view. The very short deadlines that the public concerned had for comments and suggestions in the process of drafting the legislative text are also noted by the members of the Energy Chamber, adding that such a rapid procedure does not allow them to see all the consequences that changes will have on the operation of energy companies and on the development of electricity production from renewable sources. In the LDS, we support the intention to also achieve increased investment in renewable energy power plants and power plants with cogeneration of electricity and heat. The fact is that Slovenia's import dependence on electricity is too high at this point. Therefore, there is no doubt that there is a good solution to this trend by investing heavily in energy subsidies. We welcome this and we support it. In addition to these investments, we point out that the only real possibility is to reduce the import dependence of investment in large-scale production or fossil fuels or nuclear energy, of course, by adding what is happening in the Šostanj Termoelectricarium and what is being done in the Krško nuclear power plant, of course all the conversation and thinking about it. We are also concerned about the suspicions of corruption arising from the flow of state money into private companies. At the same time, with serious criticism of government energy policy in the last term in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the proposed changes to the Energy Act are seen as positive in our work, particularly in order to harmonise the law with the views of the European Commission. And once again we state that it is, of course, to encourage producers of renewable energy sources, which is, for the last time, certainly in place. In the opinion of the parliamentary group, the amendment also adequately regulates the reimbursement of the contribution to the grid for electricity traders who have been in an unenviable position since May 2004 due to imports. We are also making a positive assessment of the provision regarding a new more detailed regulation of the procedure for issuing certificates of origin in the law itself and that certain other matters from a sub-legislative level are also transferred to the legal level. In particular, in our group we welcome the change that will accelerate the increased investment of natural persons in micro-power plants or in cogeneration. However, the restrictiveness and weakness of the amendment of the law in the LDS are seen in the same way as some members of the Energy Chamber in limiting the age of production of buildings, since renewables devices which are above 15 years of age to these support and subsidies should not be justified. I come from a congregation where we have quite a few hydrocentres, which are almost 100 years old and still work perfectly and well, and if there is somewhere to go, because there are also ecological, additional resources, then they must certainly be allocated to them, but they fall out of this law or they need to be laid down and rebuilt. Similarly, it would be necessary to increase the limit value from five megawatts to ten in order to actually accelerate all production and investment in renewable production facilities in our country, which is also allowed by the European Union directives. Let me finish. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, despite the poor energy policy led by the Government through the current mandate and despite the way - we do not oppose the amendment of the law too quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič will speak on the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In the New Slovenia Group, we are still aware that, without radical changes in investment in new, environmentally friendly production capacity, Slovenia will have difficulty following the objectives set by the European Union. We know that the European Union has set three important targets by 2020; reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%; increasing the share of primary renewables by 20%; and increasing energy efficiency by 20%. We therefore support all the solutions that go hand in hand with this objective. The new energy law ahead of us introduces changes relating to the alignment of Slovenian energy regulations with the European Commission's positions in the state aid scheme implemented by Slovenia under its legislation on qualified energy producers. The majority of the changes brought by the novelty relate to provisions on so-called qualified electricity producers and to support domestic energy producers. Following a new development, the support of qualified power plants, which constitute a form of aid granted to protect the environment, will be justified in particular by new or newer power plants that will need assistance in the depreciation of facilities. These support will be implemented as a guaranteed buy-in at a predetermined price that will cover the own costs of electricity production in those plants or as operating aid in the form of a premium, the amount of which will depend on the market price of electricity. A limited support size will also be raised. The support scheme will have to be in line with the current guidelines on state aid for environmental protection and will also be notified to the Commission. An important change is also introduced in the area of the provision of support related to the compulsory purchase of electricity. Support will only be granted to undertakings which are not related to the transmission or distribution of electricity. Amendments to the law provide for the imposition of tasks to support state-owned enterprises and enterprises with experience, knowledge and personnel for such activities. However, the change is also envisaged in the capture of financial resources for these support. In this way, the new funds will be provided with flat-rate contributions after the monthly payments. The new law introduces changes in the field of energy efficiency. Electricity revenues will only be used for the efficient use of electricity and not for other purposes. As the main objective of the proposed amendment of the Energy Act, increased investment in renewable energy plants and cogeneration plants should be mentioned. Since we are committed in New Slovenia to reducing the use of energy and increasing the use of renewable energy sources, we will, of course, support the proposed changes, in line with the European order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Drofenik, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister with a fellow member, Members and Members of Parliament, a nice welcome! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the energy sector is one of the key economic sectors and an important area at present. We support the objectives of the law, which are set out to ensure increased investment in renewable energy plants and co-production plants, and to bring the Energy Act into line with the commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia in the investigation process by the EU Commission. We therefore also support the adoption of amendments and additions to the urgent procedure. The draft law aligns Slovenia's legal order with EU rules in several areas. In our view, support for renewable energy power plants and cogeneration plants with high-efficiency heat and electricity is properly regulated, in accordance with the guidelines on state aid for environmental protection. We support domestic electricity producers from domestic energy sources. We also support the creation of a more stimulating investment environment for new projects and a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for energy consumers. The area of proof of the right to build state-of-the-art energy facilities and the issue of the acquisition of real estate for the construction of energy infrastructure is being regulated. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will adopt the proposed amendment to the law because we believe it is particularly useful to facilitate the introduction of alternative energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments you received on the bench. We begin with the amendment to the 17th article of the coalition parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We continue with the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 20. No one wants to discuss it. Let's move on to Article 23. Here are the three amendments of the SNS Group of Members: SDS, NSI, and SLS and the Zares Group of Members. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Respectable. I would just like to clarify that this amendment of the coalition's sent groups is in fact a response to the observation made on behalf of the representative of the Social Democrats' Group. Indeed, this amendment saves the embarrassment that Mr Kontic has put forward. This is because the support or aid scheme is intended for buildings up to the power of 125 megawatts, as provided for in the law, and that facilities that exceed those rated powers when talking about electricity production and 200 megawatts when talking about cogenerations require a specific notification to the European Commission. But the rules apply to everyone. This law also lays the groundwork for buildings above this power, of course under the rules of the European Union. This is said, we do not limit, we limit only to a concrete state aid scheme, but everything else needs to be notified and thus the statement made on behalf of the SD Group has been removed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Thank you very much. There are no others prepared to discuss this Article, the amendments to Article 23. We are moving on to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, all four of them, to Article 42. There are no debaters. And to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups of all four, to Article 50. There are no debaters, so I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday, 24 June 2008, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Nuclear Electrocution Funding Funding and on the disposal of radioactive wastes from a nuclear power grid following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give my word to the government's representative, Mr. Mag. Andrey Visiak, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The existing law on a fund for financing the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant, which is interesting, is very "passenger" in the context of today's discussion, because it is in fact a fund that we have set up primarily for the secure collection of financial resources for the obligations we will have towards this facility, especially at the end of our lives, or also in the context of solving the landfill of radioactive waste. So this is a very good solution, which is also applicable in other cases, including in the case of mines, also in other projects, when the importance of financial burdens, which come after the end of this life period, is neglected at the time of the active period. Thus, the law, which was essentially a Member of Parliament, was passed by members of the National Assembly, provided, of course, for the Fund, for the establishment of a special fund, more than not, under the control of the National Assembly, with a view to the transparent and sufficient collection of resources necessary to address the issue of the landfill of nuclear waste and also decommissioning. So, the fund was set up primarily with this purpose and the "focus" of focusing on this problem of how to raise financial resources, how they can also be effectively nobled and thus provide some financial leverage later. Now we are essentially going to a new phase, and this is the stage when, of course, this fund will slowly start, we hope, at least, to fund some of its tasks. Finally, it is on the horizon, also because of the commitments made under the law to approve the location of the landfill of low and medium-sized radioactive waste. And if, and we hope that the State Spatial Plan for this or the State Location Plan for this landfill will be adopted this year, then the Fund will also become a financier, not only as a fund, but also as a fund as some kind of funder of these projects. Therefore, and this is the basic heart, so through changes in the law, we define the tasks and competences of the Fund in a little more detail than, say, to this investor in the tasks entrusted to him. So this is the basic intention of this law, the basic purpose and it is right that financial channels are between the financier and the user of this money, as well as the operators, which can be transparent, correct and subject to in fact transparent and also correct relations. This is a basic purpose, so I suggest you adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Martin Mikolić, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy, as the parent working body of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, was discussed at the 25th emergency meeting on 10 June 2008. Representatives of the Government, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety and Protection and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS Members. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has drawn up specific comments with regard to Articles 1, 3 and 5. These comments were taken into account by the adoption of amendments to the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the proposer's representative introduced substantial changes to the current draft law. In doing so, he stressed that they relate to the provision of funds to the Fund for the execution of tasks and the settlement of obligations, the obligation to report to the user of the funds, the possibility of the Fund's representatives participating in the Commissions for the execution of public contracts and the prudential audits and the intention of the use of funds. The members of the Committee did not discuss the individual articles of the bill. The Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS as of 1st, 3rd, 4th and 5th Articles. He also accepted all the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted, a complementary draft law, which forms an integral part of this report, is being prepared. I suggest we accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, we will confirm or vote in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the NEK. But here's the amendment I want to talk to you about. It is that Croatia does not pay any money into this fund to finance decommissioning, nor does it pay for the disposal of radioactive waste. Croats simply leave everything together in Slovenia and they have absolutely nothing to worry about what will happen. The Slovenian side is 11. 3. 2003 concluded with Croatia or at that time entered into force the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to the investment in, exploitation and degradation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Of course, here again the Slovenian side drew a brief and then the Minister of the Environment acknowledged to the Croats all that they should not have. The undeniable fact is that to date Croatia has not invested either one kuna or one euro in the NEK decommissioning fund. We therefore propose that, in the event of default or so far, the current debt of the Republic of Croatia towards the Republic of Slovenia should be proportionally converted into a equity share in favour of Slovenia. The nuclear power plant is on our side, and we can do it. The Croats would have done it a long time ago if it were on their side. And our government has to do this, because otherwise, Croats will still be pressing us against the neck. We continue to propose that, in the event of future default of the Fund's liabilities, the Republic of Croatia's debt shall be accounted for once a year for the previous year and transferred to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia at the same time. The solution is not new, it is not unknown within the European Union, it is similar in other segments and these solutions are legitimate, legal and familiar. We therefore feel that we must no longer give in to the Croats, because the fact is that Croatia owes us terrible money at the expense of this. The fact is that there are huge numbers of Croats employed at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and the fact is that there are Croatians on the board of directors who are largely acting to the detriment of Slovenia and to the benefit of Croatia. This is actually understandable because it is their homeland, but one would expect our people to serve our homeland. Therefore, I think it is imperative that this relationship be settled once and for all. Croatia, as it is evident, is dragging us by the nose at every turn. If nothing else, last night it turned out that what I was saying was coming true from the very beginning, that at Joras the Croats are going to pull us together nicely, not to say any other organ, but the fact is that that's exactly what happened, and that's exactly what's going on at every step. Like, I'm not gonna say it, but what do you think they're pulling us by the balls with a naked ass on their nuts? And that's exactly what the Croats are doing to us, and it's high time it stops. And one of the first things to stop this is to regulate this relationship with the Kranško nuclear power plant. I think we have to charge this unpaid debt with interest to Croatia, participate in a greater share of the ownership of the Nuclear Power Plant, because even in the renewal of the nuclear power plant Croatia is largely not involved. However, they cooperate with the greatest joy in the sharing of electricity, which cannot be. Let us not forget that we are also in the European Union and Croatia is not in the European Union. And as it turns out, I am very happy, so it seems that Croatia will not be for long. I can say that my friend Mr Sarkozy has done well when he said that Croatia will be far away in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Thank you again very much for your word. Dear Members! In this area, too, it is our firm conviction that, according to the Lip Group of Members, one of those issues which Slovenia unfortunately does not want to resolve, without not knowing it, is a set of open issues that we have with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. All the government so far, whether the previous government or the current government, do not want to close these issues, in our belief solely because it opens up just before the elections. Today and here each of us is likely to list those electoral topics that will be produced by television, radio and radio confrontations in this August and September and will again be the number one relationship with or better said open relations with the Republic of Croatia. Again, we will all be the smartest, how Slovenia must no longer give up from this September. But the facts, of course, are different. I sincerely fear that in the National Assembly and within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we do not have the credibility to close these chapters. Otherwise, we can't name the whole story, even in connection with a nuclear power plant, like making fun of it. Slovenia, from year to year, or better said within each current mandate, shall also adopt an act in this area ensuring that things are carried out in a positive direction in the preservation of Slovenian national interest, in keeping with all that is positive for Slovenia. In short, we always vote on an act later on our particular case, five years later it turns out to be an act that has no substance, because neighbouring Croatia has not done its job. So I'm talking about 2003 and I'm talking about the agreement between Slovenia and Croatia. Before that, we had only a small sea of similar acts in the National Assembly. So, I'm talking about whether we're completely, completely incompetent, or whether we're doing this on purpose, and we're making fun of such a very important subject as nuclear, waste, fund. At the same time, the colloyers are talking about a new nuclear power plant in the area of the Republic of Slovenia. Since 2003 he has been solely responsible in the realization of the Republic of Slovenia, because the Croats have given me nothing to give you away and said they will not deal with it. No calls from the previous minister, this minister, ministers, the Croatian ministerial assembly have been answered at all. When did Croatia begin to respond for the first time to the so-called content or requests in connection with a nuclear power plant? At a time when they were invited by Europe and at a time when Croats had to start closing individual chapters for association with the European Union. The talks that have emerged in the last period are not the result of the success of the National Assembly or the Slovenian Government, but are exclusively the fruit of the so-called requests of the European Union in closing the questions. But we came into a new era, into a new era, we came at a time when the Irish said no to the Lisbon Treaty. Maybe someone will think it has nothing to do with it, but it's fucking wrong. The Treaty of Lisbon was the one that invited Croats into the framework of the European Union Society. And since the Treaty of Lisbon in Ireland has fallen as full-fledged members of the European Union, the Treaty of Nice and the Treaty of Nice do not speak of the invitation of the Republic of Croatia, the neighbours of Croatia, Croatia, whatever we call it, to this society called the European Union, which means, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, that the neighbours are no longer obliged to fulfil the chapters. And one of the chapters is also a chapter that contains their realization of a given word, which is written in a document from 2003. Of course, we will support today's content of the bill within the party, the Lip Group of Members, but I believe that we will all support it, but I sincerely fear that in three or four years we will meet again with the same dilemma of non-payment, nor the euro from Croatia into the fund, and then we will say again, but now we have taken the right step again. I am afraid that, both in the field of borders and in the field of nuclear power, the entire Slovenian policy is subject exclusively to the moment of resolution, but to the moment of elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Stane Pajk will state the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	Your Honors are here! The Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant was established by implementing the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant on 17 December 1994. The Fund's task is to raise funds for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, for the safe storage and final disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. Following this proposal, the mandate and powers of the law shall be extended. The purpose of the current proposal is to establish an organisational and financial infrastructure to enable the facility to be cleaned and made available for new use after the end of the operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and that the waste will be safely disposed of and stored. The aim of the amendment is to address the shortcomings of the existing legislation, as it regulates the modalities and conditions for the operation of the Fund as a source of funding for the fulfilment of the tasks set out in the Regulations. In addition, the lack of existing legal arrangements does not regulate the manner and conditions for the operation of the Fund as a source of funding for the fulfilment of the tasks laid down in Article 5 of the Regulation on criteria for determining the amount of compensation to the cores of limited use of space in the nuclear facility area, which does not indicate that it is liable to pay these compensations to the Fund. In any event, the proper functioning of the Fund is important for the local community and even Slovenia, as the proper functioning of the Fund is a "guarantee" to raise enough money according to the plan in the account by 2022. This collection, operation and revision of the usefulness and purpose of the use of funds will further justify the purpose of setting up the Fund. The proposal for a law also provides for the termination of the Law banning the construction of nuclear power plants in the SFRJ and the termination of the Law suspending the construction of nuclear power plants until 2000. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Thanks again for saying that. Nicely greeted! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal of the law without reservations, as the proposed law will have a positive impact mainly on the establishment of organisational and financial infrastructure that will allow the facilities to be cleaned and made available for new use after the end of the Nuclear Power Plant. In addition, waste generated by the operation of the power plant will be safely deposited and stored, which we welcome and appreciate in the New Slovenia Group. The Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant was established as a legal person of public law for the collection of financial resources for its decommissioning, storage and permanent disposal of medium and low radioactive waste. The transposed law therefore provides for an extension of the Fund's competence as a public financial fund in terms of the control of the Radioactive Waste Agency, which will have to submit Fund reports in accordance with international auditing standards. In addition, the issue of the entry into force of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations related to the investment in, exploitation and degradation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. In the New Slovenia Group, we are committed to a negotiated solution to all the legitimate requirements of the Slovenian side regarding the ownership of Slovenian companies and individuals in Croatia and the business and decommissioning issues of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. If no agreement is reached, all legal remedies, including arbitration, will have to be used. In the New Slovenia Group, we will therefore support the solutions introduced by the proposed law, as it also eliminates the shortcomings of the current law and will also ensure a better way of working, specify the scope of the tasks, deadlines and payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you very much. And Mr. Marjan Drofenik, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Slovenian People's Party Group supports the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The purpose of the law is to establish an organisational and financial infrastructure to enable the facility to be cleaned after the end of the operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and to be made available for new use and that waste will be safely disposed of and stored. The funds collected under this law, thus provided for by law, shall be used for the preparation of projects, for the safe storage and final disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and for the safe decommissioning of NEK, for the implementation of projects for the safe storage and final disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste, for the implementation of the project for the safe decommissioning of NEK and for the provision of financial resources for the settlement of compensation obligations in order to limit the use of space in the nuclear facility area. In the parliamentary group, because it is an important law and a system-wide regulation of relatively complex problems, we consider the amendment to the law to be good and therefore we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. We have only one amendment tabled by the Head of the SNS Group, which he explained a little earlier. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain a few things in relation to the reading of the relations to the Republic of Croatia. The Interstate Treaty and the Law on Ratification confirmed an agreement between the Slovenian and Croatian parties, with which many disagree. I myself am very critical of this interstate treaty, because I do not think it regulates a sufficient solution between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia, but in that time, under the other Minister, that treaty was negotiated and entered into force. Of course, it is only possible to change the contract if both parties agree and the contract has been enacted or set up by two decommissioning funds. One on the Slovenian side and one on the Croatian side. Therefore, it is normal that the money owed to Croatia in accordance with the decommissioning programme is not collected in the Slovenian fund, but must be collected in the Croatian fund. There have been many problems since the Republic of Croatia has not established its own fund until recently, even though it was bound by the contract. This has happened: the Republic of Croatia has set up a fund and this has also been heard that it is likely to be under pressure from the European Union. Yeah, that's part of the way it is. Also as Minister, I have informed the Commissioners responsible that Croatia does not comply with the Interstate Treaty and that this is a major problem. So we concentrated our powers, brought together our powers, that finally Croatia did it. And Croatia is committed, in accordance with the decommissioning programme and in accordance with the Interstate Treaty, to pay to this fund as the Republic of Slovenia and to participate in the resolution of these issues, both as regards postponement and as regards decommissioning. However, once again, the fund in the law we are talking about is, of course, a Slovenian part, a fund set up in the Republic of Slovenia and not "tangira" has paid Croatia, because Croatia is paying for its special fund. So much for the eyes that the Croats don't pay anything. Of course, they're not paying for anything in our fund, but they're paying for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss this amendment again, we will decide on the amendment in the framework of the vote on Tuesday, 24 June 2008, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday 24 June 2008, at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
