ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Bogdan Barovic, France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Ivan Jelen, Aurelio Juri, Marko Pavliha, Milan Petek, Franz Žnidaršič and Martin Mikolič until 2 p.m. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Update on the information provided by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the final spring meeting of the European Council. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, presented the information to the meeting, and I give him the floor to complete the presentation of the information. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The European Council of 13 and 14 March, held in Brussels, was the main political event of the first half of the Slovenian leadership of the European Union in the first half of this year. Traditionally, the European Council has been dedicated to economic and social issues since spring 2005 and has traditionally assessed the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and the plans for the implementation of this strategy for the future. This year, the European Council continued its work on the environmental and energy package in March last year. It also faced a crisis in the financial markets and adopted some of the guidelines related to this. The period in which we met was not exactly ideal in terms of the overall macroeconomic prospects in the world. In these first months of this year, oil prices and food prices on global markets have increased, and financial market instability has further affected unrest. According to a survey carried out by Eurobarometer at this time, 76% of Europeans expect more action from the European Union on climate protection. Within one year of the European Union's adoption last year of these ambitious targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to increase renewable energy sources, it could be said that the Europeans' awareness has also advanced in this sense that they have largely adopted these targets and that concrete actions are also required to achieve these objectives. This same Eurobarometer survey has also shown that as many as three quarters of the population and the population of the European Union are also prepared for a certain change of habits and that, say, three quarters of Europeans are willing to pay more for solid organic food. These three key challenges are said to be: the crisis in the financial markets, the launch or continuation of the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy and the environmental energy package, we have fully responded to this European Summit within a framework that was realistic and possible in this part of the year. One of the achievements we have made in the European Council is that the European Union is becoming more determined by these decisions, even when it comes to global participation, in the world. That, on the one hand, it has unified some views and that, on the other hand, as the first of all key global factors, it has set its goals and set some frameworks, some starting points for achieving global objectives. In this regard, there has been a need to respond to the constant dilemma arising from the awareness of the challenges of globalisation everywhere. This dilemma is, as far as the world is concerned, to take advantage of these global impacts as a new challenge, to adapt and benefit the European Union and its Member States, to the extent to which the protection mechanisms are used against these challenges and to still, in some way, maintain an island where market rules are different and where domestic industry, jobs and a specific way of life are protected in one way or another. The European Council has done three things specifically spoken. For the first time, a new and more modern three-year cycle of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs was launched. The first cycle was launched in 2005 and produced good results. Secondly, we have confirmed the time frame and the basic principles for the adoption of the climate energy package. Last March, the European Council set its targets, the European Commission proposed on 23 January this year an entire package of rules and guidance on how to achieve these objectives, including the division of effort or burden, as some call it. This year we have set a time frame, which is an extremely important decision and also a fundamental principle for taking all these necessary guidelines and concrete decisions. Without a time frame, which is also important because the mandate of the European Parliament and the European Commission is due to expire next year and there is no possibility of formal adoption of this package without agreement on fundamental principles. Thirdly, the European Council has outlined further steps to ensure the stability of financial markets. In short, it is now about all three achievements or all three sets of decisions. The Lisbon Strategy first assessed what we have achieved in the last three years in the context of the first cycle. It was found that the strategy is at two key points, according to economic growth and in social terms, it could be said that growth, in employment, has produced good results. It has established good economic foundations for the European Union, which is particularly important in these uncertain economic conditions in the global market. These structural reforms have also had very positive effects on the euro. The internal market of the European Union has taken care of a solid development framework at this time. If I give some information and start with the public financial deficit, which was a problem three years ago in the European Union, we can see that it has more than halved from 2005 to this year. This goal has also been achieved in Slovenia, from 1.8% of the deficit we reached last year to 0.1% of the surplus. In the whole of the European Union, public debt on average fell below 60%, which is the criterion. In Slovenia we have never had any problems with this, we are less than half of this debt. Growth in 2007 across the European Union was 2.9%; this is a very good result for the European Union at this level of development. In Slovenia last year, economic growth was more than once more, 6.1%. This has also exceeded not only the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy but also the objective of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, which speaks of our ambition being 3% higher than the average of the European Union. In the last two years of this first cycle of implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, 6.5 million new jobs have been created across the European Union and 30 000 have been created in Slovenia. On the basis of these results, which have far been most favourable since the Lisbon Strategy was adopted in 2000, it was found that, for the first time, the solid economic base created in the European Union is a key obstacle before instability in foreign financial markets is also a major threat to the European economy and put it at risk of recession. In addition, after quite a dynamic debate, it was also found that there is no reason for reforms to stop. There have also been proposals in this direction, if the situation is now such that some reforms need to be stopped - such a debate has also been held in the European Parliament mainly by smaller or "minis" groups in the European Parliament. However, at the level of the European Council and also at the level, it could be said that 80% in the European Parliament have been supported by the continuation of reforms and that the continuation of reforms is one of the key parts of the new Lisbon Strategy cycle for the next three years. [[...]] This strategy also highlights the implementation of the reform decisions taken and also the modernisation of some of the measures taken and already adopted. In the future, there will be a formal basis for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy on the still existing integrated guidelines, as well as on specific recommendations on the basis of which all members of the European Union will implement certain reforms more quickly. Slovenia received two of these recommendations, on labour market flexibility and on some further steps towards adapting the pension system to new challenges. This new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy is much more balanced than the previous one, and in the sense that there is a balance between human and environmental care on the one hand and a competitive knowledge-based economy on the other. Some priority areas in the Lisbon Strategy are being upgraded as follows. When it comes to innovation and ambition to make Europe more innovative, a number of conclusions have been adopted to prevent the European Union's brain escape for the first time, as a large percentage of the most educated Europeans are still leaving for other environments, particularly the United States. A lot of conclusions have been drawn to creating an appropriate environment to limit or prevent brain escape and to attract talent from elsewhere. This objective of greater investment in science and development remains renewed. This is where investment is gradually increasing. One of the resounding and important achievements of the European Council is the launch of the so-called fifth freedom. This is the free movement of knowledge within the European Union. In particular, it is for the fifth freedom to be fully realized. It is necessary to remove the numbers of obstacles, strengthen the cross-border mobility of students, researchers, scientists, university lecturers, talents at all. There has been a lot of debate over this freedom in recent years, including concerns, but on this European Council it has been unanimously supported. Modernisation of universities and a strengthened partnership with the business environment remain a goal, we have also advocated to prevent early school leaving, at the level of the European Union as a whole, the percentage of those who do not leave school or leave before the end of 15.2%, and the emphasis on inclusion or inclusion in lifelong education is enhanced. The Commission, which was one of the most important conclusions, was given the task of reviewing the needs for knowledge, according to the different knowledge in the European Union by 2020. For one such review in some comprehensive form, and for any strategic planning, this review is the basis. In the context of this priority, the European Council stressed the importance of penetration, broadband or rapid internet between the population and also adopted a very specific objective, including the inclusion of all schools in the European Union in broadband by 2010. This objective is quite ambitious in view of the situation which is now well below the desirable and even far below what they achieve with broadband penetration of the four best countries; Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden. Several joint initiatives already under way have also been supported, namely Galileo, the European Institute of Technology and Joint Technology Initiatives. Now, the second focus of the new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy is entrepreneurship, the real goal is to make Europe even more entrepreneurial. The European Union still lacks, as a whole, small and innovative enterprises. These have the biggest problems when it comes to easier access to funding sources and even when it comes to incentives for innovation. A draft legislation is being prepared for small businesses, which will constitute a formal framework to encourage this sector. The emphasis is placed on strengthening the functioning of the internal market and removing the remaining obstacles to already established or introduced four freedoms. In the future, an annual report on access to external markets will be prepared and identify concrete countries and markets where these barriers to European Union products exist. A great deal of emphasis has been placed on green economy or on the development of new technologies that enable production that is more environmentally friendly. The green economy provides new opportunities for earnings and jobs. The green industry has been growing in the European Union recently with a rate of 5% per year and is creating more and more jobs. The third priority is better care for people. As part of the launch of the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy, a great deal of emphasis was placed on the so-called social dimension or the social component of the Lisbon Strategy. The European Union is, as far as social policy is concerned, a specific space in the global world. The European Union has, although we cannot talk about the exact same approach in all Member States, but in summary, the European Union has some of the most balanced economic and social model, an economic and social economy compared to all other continents or regions, and some approach to the creation of a society, a well-being that has given comparatively the best results with other environments. Of course, the price for this is not low. Nevertheless, this social component, the so-called social component, was further highlighted. This emphasis was also very clear in the European Parliament. The Commission is preparing a new proposal for a renewed social agenda for the European Union, which will take account of recent changes or new developments in the labour market. The three-part social summit of the social partners, which is a parallel event with or just before the European Council, was also aimed at this dimension. It is a meeting of the European Union, the European Commission and the European Council. At this tripartite summit, these social emphasis was then included either in the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy, or in the environmental energy package, to a large extent coordinated and supported. A special emphasis is placed on youth within the social dimension, on the employment opportunities of young people, and on knowledge. By underlining very clearly the fact that education is that knowledge is the most effective way to prevent too many social differences and, of course, enables a society of well-being for as many people as possible or for all. Among other things, the second set of conclusions, or decision of the European Council, concerns climate change and energy. This was also a significantly more difficult nut than the Lisbon Strategy, where we managed to bring the conclusions to a large extent in previous negotiations. However, climate change and energy and the conclusions we have adopted may not be the most interesting part of the 7th force, but decisions that in the medium to long term, but also in the medium to long term, in some cases also in the short term represent something that will require significant changes in the habits and lifestyle of the vast majority of the European Union. This awareness also penetrates the general public, and that is why the seriousness of this debate was at its peak. When the Commission presented the environmental and energy package in January, the reactions of the different Member States were different, some also very volatile. Last year, the general objectives given under the formula were set 3 times 20. It was not easy at the time to set these general objectives, but this time the Commission came up with precise calculations of how much a country must contribute to achieving these objectives. And this year's debate was far more difficult because each Member State and any representative or Prime Minister of the State representing his country knew exactly what these general objectives for the European Union also represent for his country. And he also knew precisely that if a decision is taken to harmonise the environmental and energy package by the end of this year, a large and essential part of it by the half-year. All of this also means a change in national legislation, especially in energy objectives that will need to be implemented into a formal framework, as well as in the conduct of each Member State individually. So, with the start of the Slovenian leadership of the European Union, this rather abstract discussion was very concrete. However, after two months at this last European summit, the realization that the Commission's proposal is actually good, that it is balanced, that the basis on which we can reach agreement within the time frame set and that everyone will have to contribute, those who are richer, more, those who have better opportunities for renewable resources, even a little more. And these principles, these general criteria that have been adopted, take into account the very large differences and also the exceptional specificities of some Member States that cannot be compared with some average. Of course, this global time dimension was always over the debate on the environmental and energy package. The Kyoto period expires in 2012. For this time we have some agreement that has not been ratified everywhere but is only partially implemented, but this first step has been taken to mitigate the negative effects of climate change, there is none of it since 2012. A commitment was made in Bali last year to reach an agreement for the post-Kyoto period. And the first test, whether we are actually going to be a part of this, will be the December 2009 meeting in Copenhagen, says December of the following year. This meeting must be a success if we are to agree in time for the post-Kyoto period. With regard to this global time dimension, a number of dilemmas are raised. One is how far the European Union should risk setting its objectives and its ambitions, given that they are, on the one hand, objectives that cannot be achieved without investment, without exceptional such and other efforts, also innovative. And it is clear, on the other hand, that if only the European Union is going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we have achieved nothing in a global sense. The European Union, in total, mimics just over 5,000 million tonnes of CO2 in the atmosphere, about the same amount today is being followed by China, although their emissions are increasing dramatically. The United States is releasing about a thousand million tonnes of CO2 more into the atmosphere by promising that these releases will at least be limited. And then we have India and the Russian Federation, which are imitating between a million and two million tons of CO2 in the atmosphere. Then they're smaller. If we look at these figures in the box, we see that even if the European Union were to fully, in a short period of time or immediately suspend virtually all activities that release greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, this would not mean anything yet. This would not mean anything in the long run, because only China, at the current pace of development, can make up for these emissions in, say, the next ten years. So a global agreement is needed. However, it is clear, on the other hand, that this global agreement is so much more likely as someone who shows how to achieve these goals and who will move forward. And exactly half of the European Union made a move last year to set these targets for reducing emissions to increase renewable energy sources and to present the criteria on the basis of which Member States will meet these targets this year. Nobody's ever done that in the world before. This is the first such step, and this ambition, adopted last March in the European Council, was a key basis for this partial step achieved last year in Bali. If the European Union did not do so itself, there would be no one who could lead this debate. The first positive results of this management appear. For example, Australia, which had previously rejected ratification of the Kyoto Agreement, did so at that time. In the United States, which is crucial to achieving a global agreement, a pre-election campaign is under way at this time, in which all three real candidates for the new President of the United States promise a different policy in terms of combating climate change and promise that the United States, which are now the single largest polluter, will join the global agreement. So, the European Union has moved this thinking and, if we want it to be successful, we will also need to take these further steps, which also means implementation, seriously and in real time. The problem related to the mentioned dilemmas, which also came to light in preparation for the European Council, was in fact the middle point around which they were concentrated or around which the majority of the environmental energy package was concentrated, were the concerns and problems of energy-depleting industries in the European Union or the heavy industry of the European Union, which emits most CO2 into the atmosphere, heavy industry and energy. After a long discussion, a solution was found, which in my opinion is the only possible ideal and which was unanimously supported in the end. The conclusion was adopted that the European Union will address the problems of this part of the economy in the event that there will be no global agreement, because if there is no global agreement, then the relocation of these industries from the European Union, where more difficult environmental standards apply, into an environment where these standards are lower, not only a threat to jobs and social security in Europe, but also an additional threat to the environment where tonnes of steel in the heavy industry in Europe today are produced on average by significantly lower CO2 emissions to the atmosphere than tonnes of steel in one of the underdeveloped countries where the labour force is cheaper and where the lower environmental standards and where the missions are larger. So, in the event that a global agreement was not reached and that it would threaten the movement of heavy-duty industries from the European Union, because we have accepted such commitments, this would not only endanger jobs, but would also threaten the already achieved targets of limiting greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere, it would not have gotten anything, it would have lost at both ends, at the social and environmental levels. This conclusion is that we will address this problem in case there is no global agreement, not only something that would be a concession, a heavy industry or polluter, as some newspapers have written, but it is a perfectly logical thing. Since greenhouse gas emissions affect the atmosphere of the entire planet in general, there is no significant difference at the end of this mission, whether it is on the Indian subcontinent or somewhere in the heart of the European Union, the negative effects ultimately affect everyone. I will also probably repeat here that no step has been taken in this regard, once again, it is just a logical conclusion that will in any event put the European Union before a very difficult dilemma, unless there is a global agreement, at this time that we want. However, this will be a general problem and this B scenario does not need to be operated at this point in time, as this agreement needs to be made. With these decisions, the European Union has confirmed its leading role and is currently leading this global coordination. All the four summits we have at the time of the Slovenian leadership of the European Union with third Member States are also dedicated to this, a summit with the United States, which will have one of the key themes in Slovenia in June. The summit of the European Union with Latin America and the Caribbean, which will be held in Lima in May, has this to be one of the key themes. The European Union's summit with Japan, which will be the end of April in Tokyo, has this as one of the key themes, given that Japan is also one of the important partners here. And also a summit between the European Union and the Russian Federation, at the end of June it has this on the agenda as one of the very important themes. So what has been done in this area in the last European Council is what we have set ourselves as an ambition when we have already set the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency as part of the tria. It is also very important that a total amount of European-level coupons for so-called emissions trading be introduced. This will no longer be in the national scheme, but it will be a European scheme that will only allow us to be effective in this fight, which of course means that CO2 leakage or emissions will be even more costly to realize that this needs to be put into all plans, including transport policy, for example, what has been the current debate lately. All measures that reduce emissions, including in transport, which represent more than 20% of pollution or CO2 emissions at European Union level, are something that contributes to lower costs. As far as financial markets are concerned, on the basis of a debate already held by the Council in the composition of the finance ministers, several conclusions were adopted in the European Council, which go four ways: firstly - to increase transparency, secondly - to improve the evaluation standards, thirdly - to strengthen the prudential framework and fourthly - to improve the functioning of the market and structural incentives. The debate on this topic will continue at the end of the next week when the informal ECOFIN or the Council of Finance Ministers meet in Slovenia. At the edge, somewhere, discussions on these three key themes of the European Council have also reached a good compromise on the French initiative on the Union for the Mediterranean. In fact, this compromise is now, in its outcome to be worked out by the Commission, an upgrade to the Barcelona process that already exists, which means that there will be no duplication of institutions and includes all Member States of the European Union and those countries outside the European Union that wish to participate in this process without anyone being excluded. With this conclusion, everyone was pleased and a debate will also be held in June on the eastern dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy, which is also necessary in order to balance. Now, at the end of the presentation, let me also thank those members of the Government or ministers who have invested in the fact that in these three key areas addressed by the European Council, we have made a move - for this it was necessary in various Council formations to move many things earlier, to harmonise a number of different interests, and these conclusions would not be possible if previous work on various Council formations were not successful. These achievements of the European Council have been assessed positively by those who seriously assess movements and steps in the European Union. The debate on the European Council, which took a net duration of probably 10 hours, has shown that it is part of the social summit that these decisions, which require far the most energy and require far the most involvement of any Presidency country, whatever the Presidency is, because they are decisions which, although not at first looking attractive, in the long term actually have a very concrete impact on the lives of every European and European country and which affect and will affect public finances in each Member State and in the European Union as a whole in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. The information was addressed by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I give the floor first to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Anton Kokal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u4	Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, secretaries of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 37th emergency meeting, on 26 March 2008, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the conclusions of the Spring European Council. At the meeting, the Deputy Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Office for European Affairs mag. Gregor Krajc presented the progress of the Spring European Council. He highlighted three important achievements of the Slovenian Presidency: the launch of a new three-year period of the Lisbon Strategy, the establishment of a timetable and the fundamental principles of the climate and energy package, and the improvement of the stability of financial markets. With regard to the launch of the new cycle of the renewed Lisbon Strategy, Mr Krajc said that Europe has sound economic foundations, but in the light of recent developments the forecasts are less optimistic and therefore the conclusions call for further action in this area. From the conclusions, the representative of the Government highlighted the importance of implementing the national reform programmes of the Member States and the expressed need for the introduction of the fifth freedom, a free flow of knowledge that would allow for greater mobility of scientists and researchers. According to the representative of the Government, the European Council reaffirmed the commitment to reduce administrative barriers by 25% by 2012, committed itself to taking a number of measures to improve the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises and called on Member States to implement the principle of flexicurity at national level. In the area of the climate and energy package, Mr Krajc concluded by stressing the European Council's call for agreement on the content of the package by the end of 2008, and the commitment that the European Union will continue to play a leading role in climate change and energy, with the European Union's objective of a comprehensive climate change agreement in 2009 in Copenhagen. With regard to the conclusions on the stability of financial markets, Mr Krajc explained that the response to the stabilisation of the situation by the European Central Bank and other actors was timely and positive. The conclusions call, inter alia, for the Economic and Financial Affairs Council to take action in some important areas, to improve evaluation standards, to strengthen prudential measures in the financial sector, thus improving the functioning of the market. The representative of the Government, however, said that on the first day of the meeting, at dinner, the leaders confirmed the principle of the Union for the Mediterranean, which would include all members of the European Union and other countries on the Mediterranean Sea. The debate followed where the members of the committee highlighted the following issues. The importance of the decisions and achievements of the Slovenian Presidency compared to the envisaged decisions of the future French Presidency. We were also interested in the role of the Union for the Mediterranean. Is this a substitute for regular membership in the European Union? In addition, we were interested in the measures which Slovenia, as President of the State, will have to implement in the area of the stability of financial markets. We were also interested in the content of the report by the High Representative and the European Commission on the impact of climate change on international security. In the debate, Committee members also highlighted the importance of the impact of climate change on different areas, which could also concern Slovenia. [[Drinking water, migration]] . At its 37th emergency meeting, on 26 March 2008, the Committee of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs took note of information provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the conclusion of the Spring European Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Joseph Jerovska. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government with ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At its 85th urgent meeting, the Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the conclusions of the Spring European Council in its work under the responsibility of the Committee. Introductoryly, the Secretary of State is mag. Matjaž Šinkovec said that the European Council had reviewed the joint report of the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union, Javier Solana and the European Commission on the impact of climate change on international security. He stressed that, due to its leading role in development and global climate policy and its tools and instruments for development, conflict prevention, crisis management and post-conflict reconstruction, the European Union was able to respond adequately to the impact of climate change on international security. This will need to focus on three areas: increased capacity at European Union level, the European Union's multilateral leadership for global climate security and cooperation with third countries. The State Secretary further stated on the Mediterranean Union initiative that the Union for the Mediterranean under regional projects would bring countries together in the Mediterranean on the basis of an equal partnership and act as a facilitator for cooperation. Focus on four pillars or areas of action is envisaged: environment, sustainable development, dialogue between cultures and economic growth, social development and the area of Mediterranean security. The European Council also endorsed the idea of the Union for the Mediterranean, which would bring together all the Member States of the European Union and the other countries bordering the Mediterranean. Mag. Matjaž Šinkovec also presented some of the aspects of the debate of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Afghanistan, in which it was found that the Constitution had been adopted in Afghanistan, that elections had been held and that government institutions had been largely established. He added that particular emphasis was placed on cooperation with other actors, particularly NATO and the United Nations. In the debate that followed, there was a mag. Milana M. Squikla asked whether the legislative package on renewable energy and climate change proposed by the European Commission in January 2008 would be adopted this year. As far as the Union for the Mediterranean is concerned, it is mag. He asked questions about the content and extent of its operation. Milenko Ziherl highlighted the success of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the need for cooperation, as it is essential to ensure the continuity of work, particularly in complex issues such as climate change. The Committee has not adopted its conclusions on information, as it was intended to take stock of the conclusions of the Spring European Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Andrej Bručan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u8	Mr President of Parliament, the National Assembly, the President of the Government and ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In the SDS Group, we assess the first half of the Slovenian Presidency, which is now under way and whose highlight was the recent Spring European Council meeting in Brussels. In the SDS Group, we are confident that the entire Slovenian Presidency will be successful, based on the results of our work and responses so far, and the praise of the high representatives of the Member States of the European Union, as well as the highest representatives of the European institutions. Europe, however, will preserve the values and principles that show that it must remain open to economic and social development, to a dynamic and competitive economy, knowledge and development, intercultural or intercultural dialogue and social progress. Foreign media also pay great attention and praise to the Slovenian Presidency, while in Slovenia this kind of reporting sometimes shows little interest, on the contrary, sometimes it is not possible to get rid of the impression that only the Presidency in some media is trying to minimize it. The Slovenian Presidency operates under the motto of synergies for Europe and thus focuses all its energy on ensuring more synergies in Europe, between Member States and the institutions of the European Union, between the Union and citizens, between different generations, objectives, strategies and cultures. In particular, in the framework of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, the Slovenian Presidency will make a special effort to strengthen dialogue within the European Union, as this is the basis for the interaction of European citizens. The tasks and operations have already been presented in the presentation by the President of the Government, and however, allow me to concentrate on certain parts of this activity in the opinion of the SDS Group. Recently, the European Council announced the launch of a new three-year period of the Lisbon Strategy, which will focus mainly on its implementation. The call was made for the Commission and the Member States to strengthen the participation of relevant actors in the Lisbon process. They will play an important role in creating growth and new jobs for local and regional communities. In doing so, the European Council stresses that after 2010, the European Union will have to make new commitments regarding: structural reforms, sustainable development and social cohesion in order to maintain the progress achieved through the renewed Lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. Investment in knowledge and innovation is also an important aspect. For a truly modern and competitive economy, the Member States of the European Union must, by upgrading scientific and technological development and modernising universities, introduce the fifth freedom and thus remove barriers to the free movement of knowledge. In the context of human investment and labour market modernisation, it is necessary to strengthen: the educational component of the triangle, research, innovation and education. Let me mention another area, namely, the exploitation of business capabilities, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, with conclusions adopted on the renewal of the Lisbon Strategy, which have already begun to produce positive results for participants in the market. This is how the European Council welcomes the progress made in the area of better regulation 2007. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the European economy and can contribute significantly to greater growth and job creation in the European Union. A very important focus at the spring session was on climate change and energy. The European Union has committed itself to continue to play a leading role in climate change and energy and to tighten the momentum during the negotiations on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. The aim is to achieve a major, global and comprehensive climate change agreement for the period, even after 2012, which will be in line with the objectives of the European Union. Of course, when we talk about climate change, we cannot go beyond their impact on international security. Climate change can cause a whole range of conflicts in different parts of the world. The conclusions of the European Council therefore call on the Council to examine the High Representative's report on the common external security policy of Javier Solana and the European Commission on this issue and to make recommendations by December 2008 at the latest on further steps, including cooperation with third countries and regions. The European Council also agreed to strengthen the Barcelona process for the Union for the Mediterranean, by which the European Council approved the idea or principle on the Union for the Mediterranean, which will bring together all the Member States of the European Union as well as the Mediterranean countries that are not members of the European Union. The debate was thus somewhat informal and limited to a narrower circle of institutionalization and will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening relations with countries in the neighbourhood of the European Union. And one more thing. The European Council endorsed the Council's interim report on the stability of financial markets. Despite the instability of the international financial system, financial markets have only adjusted slightly following the fall shocks last year, based on the stabilisation measures adopted by the European Central Bank, national authorities and bodies of the European Union and the financial institution. The Slovenian Presidency is therefore very successful as key areas of the renewed Lisbon Strategy and climate change and energy have been addressed. These are key areas for sustainable development in all areas and follow the motto of the Presidency "Sinergion for Europe". And let me conclude with the conclusions of the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, at the opening of this year's March session, where he has assessed Slovenia's Presidency so far as a very successful one. This is further confirmed by the opinion of the SDS Group, which is presented at today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government with ministers, the President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Half the mandate of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union has passed. Today, we have heard a report from the President of the Government on the conclusions of the first EU summit under the presidency of Slovenia. The fundamental question to be asked is whether Slovenia has taken advantage of the opportunities to exercise its interests in this operation and how much the National Assembly has been involved in shaping positions for the European Union. At least with respect to the last one, we need to find out that he didn't have any special options. Which is bad. We're talking last in the National Assembly. After the Council of the EU, without having had the opportunity to influence the content and conclusions, the European Parliament has already discussed the report of the President of the Government and the Council of the European Union. Therefore, we can only take note of the report for information. There was nothing we could do in Parliament to shape its contents. We can assess whether the decisions of the Council of the European Union have also been established in our interests. The first conclusion is sure that, even in Slovenia, more than in the preparations for the Presidency, we have learned that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is a difficult substantive task, a hard work not only to commend that it requires a lot of initiatives and coordination for good results to require engagement in the Member States in order to form a common basis for positions. Therefore, the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union has received both praise and criticism, and it is both understandable. Therefore, it would be unrealistic to be euphoric and to talk about the extraordinary results of our Presidency, and it would be equally wrong to seek only bad and critical aspects, because there are also positive ones. So let's be realistic. As we cannot change anything about the current European summit that has passed, I will ask you, Mr President, some questions and warnings that may guide our presidency by the end of June this year. In view of the content of the views and conclusions of the first European Council meeting in Brussels on 13 and 14 March this year, which you have forwarded to us, these include, in particular, three groups of issues. They foresee the launch of a new period of the renewed Lisbon Strategy for Race and Jobs, provide for the continuation of activities for the adoption of concrete climate change and energy policy agreements and give some warnings on [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] ensuring the stability of financial markets. [[...]] A special statement on the Union for the Mediterranean was adopted on a proposal from France. And given the debate in the European Parliament, and in particular the warnings given by the leaders of the Socialists' Group and Social Democrats, Mr Martin Šulc, prior to the adoption of the conclusions at the summit of the European Union, some of the following issues would also be welcome. Firstly, do you, Mr President, believe that, apart from in particular procedural arrangements for the continuation of activities in the Lisbon Strategy on essential substantive points, no substantive decisions could be taken? What are the reasons for this and whether it is and what can be expected during our presidency? This depends on whether the Presidency of Slovenia will ultimately be assessed only as a routine one, or whether it will be given an assessment of a more important joint achievement. In particular, with regard to the warning about the Union's lack of care in addressing social issues, we are interested in what should also be done in our country in order to ensure that the European principle of 'flex security' provides real flexibility and security in relation to jobs not only for the flexibility of the market but also for the greater certainty of the jobs of those who lose them. In each country, including us, in view of the European Union's orientations by 2008 we should set up a specific programme in this direction. Do you think it is right that there were no assessments and arrangements at the summit of the European Union, not as informally as we know from the further activities of the European Union in the Western Balkans, both with regard to the tasks ahead of the European Union in Kosovo, as well as the instability and different possibilities of the new parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia? Since both are undoubtedly essential for strengthening stability in the region, as well as for our immediate political and economic interests. What, then, will be our further proposals and steps in this regard in the European Union? Finally, the question that was not the content of your report, not of today's report, or of the European Parliament, received the greatest attention at the European Parliament's meeting. This is a question of the situation in Tibet and China. We understood that until the European Members were aware that the European Union's summit on such an important current international political issue had not debated or taken any decision, it was very critical. How do you assess this and what will you propose as President-in-Office of the Council of the Union? On my part, that's enough. Because colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group will also assess and propose questions. Let me therefore conclude with the call for greater involvement in the preparation of the June Council of the European Union and more timely inclusion of the National Assembly so that Slovenian parliamentarians are not the last to know what the content of these meetings is. Not for prestige and formality. This is because we believe that even discussions in the National Assembly, including discussions by members of the opposition, can contribute greatly to the joint success of our Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the President of the Government. Let me start by saying that we are in a rather unusual situation again, as far as this agenda item is concerned. Parliamentarians have sometimes tried to place a wide variety of themes at the meeting of the National Assembly. And as for the current lane, initiatives are falling to classify important topics. Today we're witnessing to a unique person, at least until now. But I do not object to this being discussed without accepting any binding conclusion. Even with this information, we can also hold a debate. The coalition, however, regularly and strictly prevents this. Look. Last year and before last year, practically at the same time, the National Assembly considered the agenda items which read: Proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. Once for 2006, the second time for 2007, with a report belonging to it. We don't have that this year. I said, "Why is that?" It's a legal obligation after all. Can this kind of information replace it? If this is intended to assess the Presidency, then at this point every assessment and from these polite ones is certainly acceptable, that everything is in the best order, to be as critical as possible. I myself am inclined to say that this is a very pale presidency right now. At this point, no proposal has yet been made, no initiative by our country, our administration, to say that the Presidency will be remembered by any express initiative. I'm afraid that wasn't there. Of course, there are also worse assessments, which also have their reasons, which say that the Slovenian Presidency is not in fact disruptive to the interests of the major countries in this Union. Let me put to this exactly what has been said by the way and in the end it is said that the achievement of this summit is becoming part of this topic this idea of the Mediterranean Union. When we asked questions on the parental committee, I must say that Minister Rupel did not believe that something special would develop in a few days. He couldn't tell me what was going to happen. In fact, he did not signal that he was involved in an agreement on a topic that had become at least part of it, including Members of the European Parliament, a central point of interest. I am sure that this initiative is also, and I do not contest it, in some way, contrary to what you, Mr President of the Government, said at the beginning of the Presidency, that "we do not need duplication or the institutions of the European Union of competing institutions, which would at the same time cover part of the European Union and part of the neighbourhood. The European Union is a whole. Only as a whole can it be sufficiently effective in establishing peace, stability and progress in the neighbourhood and beyond. Today we are witnessing a different thought. Even more. We are also witnessing that we are talking about Eastern European dimensions, which must also be institutionalised in some way. I expect we'll find out more about this. If President Sarkozy was the first to take the initiative, the President or Chancellor Merklov stands for the second initiative. I would like to ask you to tell us: Does Slovenia, as we have heard, align these initiatives with or become acquainted with you on the agenda on any way they link them to each other and, as we have heard, on the occasion of dinners or working lunches? What puzzles me in some way is that in this ministerial scene, which is monitoring your performance, there is neither Minister Podobnik nor Minister Visiak. And you claim that this package, which talks about reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy emissions, is crucial. I don't see them here today. We see practically everything else. Why is that? It is also true to say that these two ministers, especially Minister Podobnik, are using the Presidency of the Union to keep their accounts for their work in the Republic of Slovenia. This is the side effect of this presidency, which is certainly bad. You know that the National Assembly should vote on the discharge of Minister Podobnik. And you're not suggesting it. Because he is terribly involved in all these major projects and priorities of the European Union. At the same time, he doesn't have time to come here to defend them right now. This is unusual and unusual. You also say that it is important that all set examples in all areas. The example of Minister Podobnik is poor as regards obligations to the National Assembly. It is also bad as regards the European Union's priority. Let me also use this information to ask other questions. Our presidency was connected. Minister Rupel talked a lot about taking important steps forward in the field of the countries of the former Yugoslavia. The agreement or signature of acts leading forward to Serbia is moving forward. You didn't report it. This certainly is not the success of Slovenian politics. The situation in Kosovo and the engagement of certain forces comes under question. You didn't report it, but you should have. Minister Rupel said that Slovenia or the European Union had reached full agreement on the Kosovo moves. We don't see that full consent. Not about the confessions, not about the other consequences that this entails. The question of Tibet was suggested here, by the way. I would also like to know whether Slovenia will be able to open this issue. Let me remind you that as the former opposition president, you have devoted a lot of attention to Chinese politics, both to Tibet and to Taiwan, having the original views of Slovenia. What's the matter with them today? What will happen if one of the European countries, such as France, goes on a boycott of the Olympic Games? Do you think this is an intermediate question for coordinating within European policies or not? There are a lot of things to talk about. There are challenges facing the European Union. It is only on whether we contribute to their resolution or fail that it is ultimately up to the assessment of whether Slovenia has done its job, not the Government, well or not. It seems to me that the reduction you are making, that the Presidency is primarily owned by the President of the Government and the Government, is a reduction that is damaging to a number of initiatives that could be more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u14	Hello again, everyone. The New Slovenia Group is trying to closely monitor the activities of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. At the time of preparation for the presidency, we proposed that the programme be presented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also happened. It is true that the presentation was more general in nature and that it would be a good idea for us to take note of the more precise programme of each ministry. However, we believe that, after the first half, the Presidency can now be assessed positively. Presentations of the Presidency are currently under way at the first half of the period, after individual councils or individual ministries. In doing so, I would like to point out that we believe that this objective or mode of chairing, as expressed in the word'sinergy', could be somewhat more concrete at the time of the presentation of individual ministries by Parliament. This is by individual Members and Members, representatives of individual home work bodies, who are affected by the content. As well as by ministers for whom it would be very positive if they came to the committee responsible at least once during the presidency. Now -- let's say -- halfway through, when we get to know the first half and the plans in the second half. The conclusions adopted by the Spring European Council are proportionate to the intentions of the Slovenian Presidency: to maintain unity in the European Union on all important issues and to conduct coordination in a soft, sustainable and diplomatic manner. It seems to us that the Slovenian Presidency is in a sense similar to the last Finnish Presidency. Following the major political decisions taken before our presidency or even before Finland in our case during the German and Portuguese Presidency, the ball needs to be somewhat calmed and these important decisions must be made in everyday life. This is a very important part of every process. We cannot constantly make tectonic decisions at European level without adequate time and procedures for their implementation in practice. In our view, under the Slovenian Presidency, the European Council has adopted conclusions that will start systematically with the implementation plan, the preparatory works and the start of the construction - if I say a little more constructively - in the key three areas identified also in the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency: the launch of the new three-year cycle of the Lisbon Strategy, the launch of the coordination and substantive preparation of the climate and energy package, and the analysis and determination of the necessary measures to ensure the stability of the financial markets. This phase is extremely important, as any overtaking for success could even be harmful. Although the conclusions seem to be rather general, they point to a clear way forward. An important decision, which has also been taken in the area of the Union for the Mediterranean, represents a compromise reached on the basis of fairly different initial proposals. The specificity of this European Council, which is also a result of the Slovenian Presidency, is the fifth freedom, which may already have a clearer path in the initial stage. And by doing so, we hope for a faster fuller application than the four freedoms so far, which are still more and more on paper from a variety of perspectives. Let me mention here only the free movement of labour in the old Member States of the European Union. With regard to the content of the conclusions, I would point out from New Slovenia's point of view the clearly exposed commitments regarding methods and timelines in achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. The conclusions show clear progress in concrete policy-making within individual Member States as well as in reforms in certain areas. Last but not least, on behalf of New Slovenia, I would like to highlight the 16th or 16th decision on flexicurity, which calls on Member States to establish a national flexicurity regime in their reform programmes by the end of 2008. Intergenerational solidarity and better coordination of the professional, private and family life of men and women are strongly exposed. The decision underlines that the European Union for Families, which received its impetus during the German Presidency, could also contribute well to the achievement of this objective and which, according to the assessment of the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian Presidency should give new added value. We believe that the policy of all the segments dealt with by the Spring European Council under Slovenian leadership shows itself in the right light when we see how it affects the situation of the average European family.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. A nice greeting to young visitors at the gallery! Slovenia, as the first of the European Union's new members, was entrusted with the responsibility of the Presidency of the European Council and also given the opportunity to promote Slovenian positions. Now that half the presidency is behind us, it is undeniable that, despite our smallness, we have done much to address the priorities that we have set before our presidency. The success is also evident in the information provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the conclusions of the Spring European Council. Especially with regard to the new three-year period of the Lisbon Strategy. In particular, I would like to highlight the tasks relating to climate change and energy. In the SLS Group, we believe that this area is particularly worrying and requires an immediate response also due to all the information we have recently received on climate warming. The European Union is committed to continue to play a leading role in climate change and energy and to maintain momentum during the negotiations at the next conference. We want to reach some kind of agreement on climate change that would be good and long-term. After all, climate change is an insurmountable fact that we are still not aware of. In addition, the European Council calls on the Commission to continue to support greenhouse gas reductions through comprehensive Community measures. The European Council also stresses that the EU emissions trading system is an essential part of a single climate and energy policy. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this policy is going in the right direction. An agreement on proposals on this subject is expected by the end of this year. In addition to the one mentioned by June 2008, an agreement on the energy market is also expected, which is a fundamental condition for sustainable energy supply. Of course, it is important that each Member State lays down effective national aid schemes for renewable energy sources. Information from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the conclusions of the Spring European Council also mentions the employment area. The fact that the local and regional communities have great importance for growth creation and jobs is mentioned. We do not yet have a regional level. But we can take care of growth and jobs plans at the level of the municipalities. Research and knowledge are of particular importance. The report mentions that we need to make greater efforts to invest in research and higher education and to make national programmes that set targets and priorities. Only through well-planned strategies, greater investment in research and free movement of knowledge will Europe become the most open and competitive labour market with great mobility of researchers and scientists. The report mentions several times the prescribing instability of the international financial system and the unforeseeable fluctuation of exchange rates. The European Council calls on the Council to continue to address these issues in the coming months as a matter of priority and to closely monitor the situation. We believe that these unfavourable movements need to be seriously studied so that the situation does not deteriorate. In particular, we need to tackle the problem of increasing food and energy prices that are the most damaging to the population. However, any change at the level of the European Union as a whole is, of course, starting with individual Member States. We therefore hope that Slovenia will also be able to implement such a financial and economic policy that will plague excessive price movements and consequently high inflation. According to the Slovenian People's Party, the report is consistent. It exposes current problems and indicates solutions. Once again, I would like to point out that the plans and programmes themselves are not enough. The cooperation of all Member States is necessary, which we must respect and respect consistently and, of course, implement effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government, ministers! Dear Members and Members! In the Group of Members, we have read the report with interest and have also listened with interest to the implementation of the President of the Government. We can agree with him in many ways. Of course, there are many things that we do not agree with and that we think should be done differently. It is certainly a fact that many had high expectations at the time of the Presidency of the European Union that this Presidency was accompanied with great glimmers and high expectations. However, later it turned out that the Presidency of the European Union is to a large extent a technical deal, which is largely limited to the organisation of some key meetings. However, many key decisions are made elsewhere. I myself was very critical of the meeting of the four largest members of the European Union in January this year, when the British Prime Minister Gordon Brown met in some way, and then the French President was also a German Chancellor and the Italian Prime Minister when they spoke of the financial crisis. They also invited the President of the European Commission, Barroso. However, our President of the Government has not been present as President of the European Council. Which was sort of illogical. However, it has shown that many of the European Union still perceive as the European Union of large countries, four large if you want. However, when it comes to key decisions, smaller countries are not allowed. That seemed bad to me. I've warned you about this a number of times. Finally, the Belgian President of the Government warned of this. Here I see, here I have seen in some way the opportunity of Slovenia to try as a small country here in this area to take a step forward. We are all aware that the problem of small countries is that they do not have much room for manoeuvre, that they have much less room for manoeuvre than large countries. Of course, small countries can profile themselves in market niches in areas where they want to leave a mark on their presidency. Here I feel that Slovenia has not been successful enough, however, to have been quite late in the crucial area when we are talking about climate change and, above all, energy. Today we see that there is no minister here with us, which I find completely unacceptable. Especially because it is precisely the field of energy that the President of the Government himself has pointed out before the presidency as one key. That seemed very good to me. Indeed, energy is likely to be the activity that will in many ways determine the development of the economies of the European Union in the next decade. I'd like to point out one more fact. What we see on the one hand as weakness and on the other hand as a great opportunity. Slovenia often likes to highlight, when it speaks of its advantages, the knowledge of the Western Balkans. In some ways, however, we have had a bad experience here with our Presidency of the European Union, also in the disclosure of the protocol on the talks of the foreign ministry, ours with the representatives of the United States. Which has aroused quite a stir in some Member States. The fact is, on the other hand, there are documents that deal with the Western Balkans, but which are very bad documents. In many ways they refer to that remarkable, so - called Thessalonica Treaty. Here in the Group of Members, we really see an opportunity for Slovenia. In order to be able to give an initiative and adopt a Western Balkans document by the end of the Presidency of the European Union. This would give us a contract that could be called the Ljubljana Treaty or the Blake Treaty. In short, in a similar way as Portugal has wrapped up its Presidency with a document now mentioned everywhere, Slovenia would also have a great opportunity to complete its Presidency with a document that would more precisely regulate the European Union strategy to the Western Balkan countries and would be called the "Ljubljanska or Blejska Treaty". The time for this initiative to be made and such a treaty to be drawn up and adopted is sufficient. In this we see that great opportunity that I talked about earlier when I talked about the opportunity for small countries to profile themselves in market niches. And if Slovenia is truly an expert in this area of the Western Balkans - as we like to stress - and we are aware that this is an area of our great economic interest, we believe that this is an opportunity and our commitment to prepare such a document, such a treaty, and that it is accepted by the end of our Presidency. If you want, it is also a promotion of those places, a free promotion by which such a contract bears a name. The next thing I want to say about something else is the positive one. However, it must be realized that there are positive things in this report. I welcome the special attention given to small and medium-sized enterprises. To draw attention here to the importance of this part of the economy. To also talk about improving the regulatory environment for entrepreneurship. It is true that in some way I lack more binding measures or at least a signal in which direction these measures should go. Similarly, the commitment to invest in people and technological development is a positive signal. It is true, however, that once again there is no commitment to ensure by a given date that a significant objective is indeed to invest 3% of gross domestic product in science and technological development, or that measures are largely lacking to ensure this. Thus, if we consider or read the entire report, we can find that it is a report that contains many things to be said. Of course, there are many things that are missing. And I've been trying to warn you about some of this. However, in its entirety, the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union is about a relatively unspectacular presidency, which was - the truth of the matter - the power to expect. It is not easy to keep your eyes closed that small countries are very difficult to come up against larger countries. Because they are faced with a response that is then reflected in a vote where big countries have multiple votes. We're all aware of that. On the other hand, it is an opportunity for small countries to profile themselves. That is why I expect this to work by the end of the Slovenian Presidency. As I said, we will conclude the Presidency at least by adopting a certain treaty regulating the European Union strategy to the Western Balkan countries. If this works out for the government, I'll be the first to give her a round of applause, and she'll be able to win a medal for good. Otherwise, we will find that this was some kind of presidency that left no special traces and that we will be able to write, "Slovenia has presided over the European Union." Operationally, the business was relatively solid. However, key substantive decisions were taken elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Information on the closures of the spring session is written very correctly, exact, accurate and concentrated. There's no doubt about that. The conclusions are general, as is the case with more or less all debates in the European Union. For in concrete solutions, each country adheres to one of its own guidelines and tries to get as much for itself as possible. Unfortunately, here Slovenia may have listened too much to the direction of the European Union and not cared enough about its own interests. This was evident in the Kosovo issue where the European Union used us to solve the problem and wash its hands. The problem that the European Union has cooked together with the United States of America would be more meaningful if Slovenia left France, which is the next EU Presidency. Not that now we're the ones who actually triggered this beginning - I'd say. We can even say the beginning of the end of some international institutions and also put the first crack in some international institutions. It might therefore make sense that, if we are already on our way to continue this path and really adopt some kind of Balkan strategy to be prepared by Slovenia. It can be very indicative and should be endorsed by the European Union at one of its meetings or by the Council of Europe. Why don't we do that? There is no need for the matter to be refined. But it would be very meaningful and very good. Because in this way we would show that we are not only a tool in the hands of the European Union. But that we also have our views and that we are prepared to save and save matters. Because that beginning with Kosovo was "fiasco" and it was bad. Another issue that I think our Government should use to preside over the European Union is the issue of relations with neighbouring Croatia. These relationships are bad. Croatia is forcing us to take every step. We do not find the right strategy for the European Union and Croatia. In fact, it sometimes seems that Croatia is a member of the European Union and Slovenia is not a member of the European Union. Such relations and such thinking should be addressed in - I should say - the foundation. This, however, can only be resolved in such a way that we stand firm within Europe for our views and, in fact, as presidents, we also condition what the European Union's attitude towards Croatia will be. It is evident that Croatia is working in its own way to take aggressive steps forward so that it does not care about international legal acts. And apparently, this thing is working. We have two options in our hands. The first option will be in Bucharest in about 10 days, where we will be able to say when Croatia enters NATO: "Gentlemen, let us wait a little while longer, but this country is not yet mature." After all, Croatian generals kill people in Croatia. They're running away, so the military and the police are hunting them, etc. And this is the generals of the Croatian Army. Then how will such an army in NATO be? What are they gonna do in there?Oh, my God! I think it's one of the possible scenarios. After all, about a year and a half ago, the chiefs of intelligence decided that the Croats are not yet drawing together because I will not now descend for a reason, but I think the government is well-known. It is also possible to enter Croatia into the European Union. Why not use our position to defend the integrity of our country? I think that would make sense and right. But I have some questions about - I would say - what with this in common - the institution or the current country we call the European Union. One of these issues is the common European Defence Agency. In these segments, the Slovenian state has not done enough. It is an institution that will actually become the backbone of a future European defence system in the area of industrial defence production. It's called a plane, tanks, weapons and the like. Here, Slovenia could find its segment where it could profit from economic connections. I also miss the Slovenian contribution to renewable energy sources and these new energy technologies. Our universities either don't know or they don't want to participate in international forums, where Slovenian intelligence could also contribute a lot to the common European pot and in this way also to the Slovenian pot, which is actually the most important thing for us. For if we look at the analysis of the individual actions of certain countries of the European Union towards the European Union themselves, then we see that they are very concerned about their interests. In the last Newsweek, there is one great article about double speakers in countries of the European Union that speak one language and do another. The analysis was made at the expense of the German situation and of Mrs Angela Merkel. Why do we not learn from them? Of those four most powerful who actually lead the European Union. Because it is increasingly proving that there are two segments of the European Union. One narrow, rich, leading, and another slightly lower. Maybe even a three-level Europe. Level three: we know where we can put and what countries we can put there. Even though they're pushing us in, they're pushing us in. The question is also why the Republic of Slovenia and the Government no longer do. Like joining the Galileo project. This project, the possibility is that Slovenia will somehow emerge with its slightly more aggressive policy and with what requirements it is subject to services that we have already done to the European Union. This is exactly what Kosovo has been a terrible service and we can get some pay for it. Because, on the other hand, we can see how Poland is gripping the EU's neck -- let's say -- and we will see what happens to the Treaty of Lisbon. The Poles are unpleasant negotiators, so the European Union takes them into account. And the European Union and America never respect the one who comes and says, "Sure, I'll do what you say." They have people like that in a corner there, and they say, "Come here, clean my shoes, and now back to the corner." I think that Slovenia is not a country that can afford this and cannot afford it. We have shown that we know how to be upright, and we must remain that way. There are a few other questions that have remained somewhat more aside. This is a matter of common defence European forces. I think that Slovenia should be more involved in planning these joint defence forces. I think that would be very good. Similarly, Slovenia may also be one of the leaders in setting up the European Union Joint Intelligence Agency. Given the fact that we are going to fight terrorism, given the fact that Slovenian soldiers are participating in various battles in the world, given the fact that we have special knowledge in the Balkans, Slovenia could peacefully be the initiator of what Europe has already begun to think about. But let's jump along, make the concept framework. And let's stay like one of those guys who's gonna take this thing or drive it all the way. We may also have missed one possibility of acquiring new markets according to the position we have. Because being president of the European Union means that we can make a lot of friends if we are smart. But we don't make friends just by allowing ourselves to be patted on the shoulders. But there's another way. Sometimes you have to tell someone in the face of something ugly. Because friendship is proof that you can tell someone in the face what's going on. I would only conclude with this: Let us consider this strategy on the Balkans. Because in this segment, Slovenia can be found and played a leading role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u22	Your Honors are here! Less than 1.5% of European Union citizens know that Slovenia holds the Presidency of the European Union. Less than 15% of European Union citizens know that Slovenia is a member of the European Union. 33% of Italians do not know that Slovenia is neighbouring Italy. So much for the success of the first half of Slovenia's Presidency to the European Union in the part where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that, during the Presidency of the European Union, we have become aware that, through the Presidency of the European Union, we have brought the name of our dear Republic of Slovenia not only to Europe but throughout the world. Are we? The 1.5% of citizens of the European Union who know that Slovenia holds the presidency are involved in politics anyway. And they know it by order, by the obligations of their profession. In the Lipa Group, we were asked before the Presidency, so before the Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union was asked by a journalist what we expect from the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. At that time, I said that we were expecting nothing but the smiling faces of some of our ministers, the Prime Minister of the Government in the domestic and foreign media. Otherwise, nothing. Unfortunately, I was wrong in this sentence, because the smiling faces of our politicians who are engaged in and own a project of the Presidency of the European Union, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are located in photographs exclusively within the media in the country of Slovenia. So, no excessive inflation of photographs in the European media, where our ministers or our Prime Minister would be. And when we speak or fail to achieve the successes that Slovenia has achieved in the Presidency of the European Union, and I think that the fundamental issue and the fundamental dilemma that we must not go through and that we must not ignore is, of course, the issue of the attitude of the Slovenians and the Slovenians to the EU issue. And what is most often the dilemma, the dilemma of those people that we should normally represent in Parliament, and the interests of those people that our Slovenian Government, which has been in the past period - we still have - the President-in-Office of the European Union, should normally represent? The main question or the basic dilemma is not how many times will one of the Slovenian politicians appear in the European newspaper. The fundamental dilemma is also not whether the people of the European Union of the Member States know about the moment of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. Nor is it which contract will be adopted and whether or not it will be named after which city. But it is a fundamental dilemma: Why do we have European prices in stores and why do we have Slovenian wages? This is a project that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as President of the European Union, should undertake. This is a question that Slovenia should raise within the European Union's Presidency institution. And this is a question that, if we just follow the question of visibility, would help all those Member States of the European Union, that is, in this club, an elite club, as we would like to call it, do not reach a third or at least half of the salaries of individual citizens and citizens compared to those we like to call developed. But what's the funniest thing about the whole story? The most funny thing about the whole story is, of course, that we are still hearing, as a rule, from the President of the Government, that not only are we in a society or a club developed, but we are also the most developed. In his opening address, the Prime Minister presented the success of high economic growth in the past year, which is even higher than the economic growth of the European Union average. Of course, he forgot to say at the same time that this is probably a trifle and it was forgotten that we also have inflation and price increases much higher than on average in the European Union. Of course, he forgot to say that wages are strong below the average of the European Union. But this is that basic project, in my firm belief or better said, in the conviction of the Lipa Group, which could be faced and authorized by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the Presidency of the European Union, if the Government, which holds the authority of the Presidency of the European Union, is itself. Some speaker has even said before - and I fully agree with him, I think that colleague Lahovnik - how many times has the Government come to a position, an opinion on the Presidency of the European Union, on the individual decision to citizens and citizens, and finally to Parliament? Of course, we didn't get that. Not me, not you, not the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is most important. In the Lipa Group, we are convinced that this project, which costs quite a lot to Slovenia. Therefore, the Presidency of the European Union should, in the main and first instance, be reflected in the satisfaction of citizens and citizens. Thus, days ago, on one of the home work bodies with a lot of scepticism, we were concerned about whether the minimum wage in our country should be increased once a year by just over €20. At that time, there was talk of fear, whether it will succeed, or whether the basic public financial act will succeed. According to my assessment, this perception, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has in its head, and unfortunately also in the National Assembly, at least most Members, that the priorities outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia are wrong within the Presidency of the European Union. In the opinion of the Lipa Group, there is no doubt that the basic principle and the content of the action should be the same. And then we would also applaud the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if we were to join a project to reduce the differences in the remuneration of the Member States of the European Union. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not once raised in its entire operation the question of why, and how and how to reduce the differences on the one hand in receipts, on the other hand, not us Members, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the people who reside in this country, and who, three years ago, both of you and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia entrusted us with the management of this country and, indirectly, the management of the European Union during the Presidency. And for the final question to each of you, the question is, of course, addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Do we successfully manage the European Union if we come from a fact that none of you can deny that we are and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the government of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Of course, we cannot respond positively. According to my assessment, the government should put in place a second strategy, a strategy for the well-being of citizens and citizens, a strategy for reducing differences in wages received, an adjustment strategy and only after what is the name of the project, what is going to happen outside Slovenia and what Slovenia will remember. Which I'm really sorry about, but I don't think they will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u23	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members and Members! Through the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, our country has taken on as important a task as our nation has not yet had in all its history. For this reason, in New Slovenia we expected plebiscite unity in the country at all levels of social life and above all political life. Unfortunately, the Government does not receive the expected support to carry out the extremely difficult task of the Presidency, which it carries out on behalf of all of us, with dignity and success. Despite the irresistible opposition - indemnity is the legitimate tool of the opposition - the Slovenian government receives enthusiastic and sincere praise from all members of the link. The half-presidency is an opportunity for an in-depth analysis of our joint work. My recognition to the Government for a good job should be a nuisance to the motivation for even more confident work during the second half of the presidency. When we decided to join the European Union years ago, New Slovenia was constructively supporting the efforts of the then government. And when we took over the euro's common European currency, Dr. Andrej Bajuk said at the award of the European Year Award to reach the year in front of the European High Auditorium, [[Quote]] : "The introduction of the euro for Slovenia is the last step on its long journey home to Europe. This is the common achievement of all Slovenians." That's right. Slovenia is home to Europe. Not only geographically, but it must also be home in Europe according to its mental potential. New Slovenia supports the implementation of the highest Slovenian responsibility in the Union. The European nations are united not only for economic reasons but also for moral reasons. From Europe, where two world wars began in the 20th century and caused tremendous distress, after 1945 they wanted to make room for peace, cooperation, freedom, prosperity, social solidarity and respect for human rights. Pursuing fundamental values has never changed, but it has been strengthened. As evidenced by the recently signed Treaty of Lisbon. During the Presidency of the Union, Slovenia will pay attention to fundamental values and will promote them in particular in those areas in our neighbourhood and in the world where peace and respect for human rights are particularly threatened. It will draw attention to the concern for a healthy environment, as climate change requires that we do so without delay. The Presidency of the European Union is a good opportunity to raise our views on the internal problems we have with our co-existence and to extend our horizons. During the Presidency, we are invited to feel and think about Europe. Which means strengthening not only Slovenian but also European consciousness. Then we will see how much we are trapped in the past that plagues our development and limits our freedom. Europe is like the cradle of modern humanism, respect for human dignity and human rights. It brings hope to many of the inhabitants of our planet. We also need more hope and confidence from Europeans themselves. If economic success and political competition are subordinated to higher human values; mutual respect, solidarity, truth, justice, dialogue, peace, we will once again enjoy life and look to the future with confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I hope to be more constructive and to stick to the agenda, there is a real debate on the conclusions of the Spring European Council and the first half of the Slovenian Presidency. The decisions of the highest political authority, the European Council, direct the Union's action, in particular in terms of coordination of matters where the views of the members are different or controversial. The highest representatives of the Member States, Heads of State and Government shall coordinate in a direct debate the views of which, at other levels, and in preliminary preparation and coordination, it was not possible to reach an appropriate consensus. For the first time, the Republic of Slovenia and under the chairmanship of the President of the Slovenian Government, Mr Janez Janša, carried out preparation and management. In this debate, let me stress the achievements that I think we are not aware of or have not noticed, because this is an area of economy, its competitiveness, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is even more important and long-term development decisive, especially for the economy than Slovenia. Education, culture, social and public services and individual and social progress can only be successfully built on a competitive economy. I estimate that the most important event was the first part of the Slovenian Presidency of the February Competitiveness Council, which reviewed the Lisbon process of economic reforms in the new cycle by 2010 and adopted a document on key messages, which are also included in the conclusion of the European Council. Slovenia has successfully led and coordinated concrete starting points to increase investment in knowledge and innovation, to unlock the business potential for SMEs, to move the European Union into a sustainable economy and to promote European success in the global market. The renewed Lisbon strategy for growth and jobs has been found to be working. That the European Union must implement the Single Market Strategy. However, Member States and, of course, the economy must focus on implementing development achievements and innovation. The initial operation of the Single Internal Market in 2006 faces new challenges of globalisation, such as the high growth of innovation and their rapid marketing, particularly in the field of biotechnology, information technology, the environment, renewable energy and sustainable transport. Since the achievements of the Slovenian Presidency in operational terms, however, I believe that there has been great success in harmonised legislation and compromise in the European Parliament, in the first reading, or that part of the free movement of goods which has not been covered by existing legislation, which has so far been subject only to the comparative law of the European Court of Justice. The latter could practically benefit only multinationals and large European companies with sufficient money for expensive legal services. The removal of unnecessary technical barriers to trade in products for which legislation does not exist at European Union level is achieved. The new rules will improve market surveillance and strengthen consumer confidence. Small and medium-sized enterprises will now be able to trade and compete equally with large corporations. The achievement is expected to be so far-reaching that, according to experts and the European Commission, the annual GDP is expected to increase by 1.8%. According to the Director of the Competition Directorate at the Ministry of Economics in Slovenia, this would amount to 2,400 new jobs. This example clearly shows that with the Presidency Slovenia is also exercising its interests. Our economy is mainly micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Challenges ahead. In my opinion, these are basically two challenges. Higher education and protection of intellectual property. The quality, the brain escape, the effectiveness of patent regulation in dealing with American or Asian and what is most important here, and the second challenge, in my opinion, is the market implementation of innovation. Not only in traditional areas of information communication technologies, biotechnology and traditional European industries, but mainly in the field of renewable energy sources and alternative drives. Finally, I should like to point out that the Committee on European Union Affairs regularly, on a weekly basis, monitors the functioning of the Government in the European Union and, of course, its Presidency of the Council of the European Union. At the meetings, we are informed of the views of the Slovenian Government and the negotiating frameworks and issues that are being addressed and coordinated between the Commission and the national countries. Above all, when we discuss individual issues and draft solutions, we have the opportunity to propose and express our views. Although we are basically only the guardian of subsidiarity, we would not accept in the negotiations obligations which interfere with the constitutionality or sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. Many of the proposals that will be put forward in this context, I believe that the representatives of the ministries, in fact ministers and state secretaries, also take them into account. I believe that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is successful and appropriate. The entire ministerial committee, co-workers in the ministries, the mission in Brussels and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, shall be commended. We must be aware that visual and external achievements require a great deal of work, expertise and coordination. In the latter, I think the greatest advantage and opportunity of Slovenia is because it does not directly threaten or compete with anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members, representatives of the Government. A few repairs first. I think that the President of the Government did not lead the European Union, but he was only the President of the European Council. Second. I am pleased that in his opening statement, the President of the Government used what we Members received as internal material, where the introduction states that the document was marked internally by a degree of secrecy and that we must not quote it. The President of the Government practically quoted everything he said in substance from this document, so I will quote it myself, and at the same time something on the European websites of the available documents. So much needs to be said because it is very strange that today we are formally considering a document sent by the head of the cabinet to Mr Tsukati. Now to the content or assessment of the first half of the Slovenian Presidency. The presidency wasn't ideal. But, above all, it wasn't ambitious enough. This is also confirmed by the European experts' assessments, which say that the last European Council was both, on the one hand, a great disappointment on the other hand encouraging. Why the disappointment? Disappointment because, in fact, there was no real decision. All decisions were taken at individual meetings, mainly Sarkozy and Merkel, Brown, Prodia and some others, long before the world. Our President of the Government was not very active either, and I don't remember him being in many meetings before the European Council. It is encouraging, however, because the European Union has refocused itself on the content of the work under the Treaty of Lisbon, which is the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. There have been some agreements both on the new phase, if you want, with the Lisbon Strategy on, hopefully, the ratified Lisbon Treaty, on strengthening growth in the European Union, strengthening employment and, of course, as has been said, some discussions were important both for climate change and for financial markets. About Lisbon. The fact that the deficits have halved in half in the European Union is at first sight an interesting thesis. But in Slovenia it is true that the deficits are halved because we give less for pensions because we give less for social benefits because we pay less for interest and give less for education. That's what the data confirms. And, of course, this is not sustainable in the long run. This is not particularly sustainable in the long term, as one of the important ambitions that have been missed is to ensure social dialogue. I will not go into what this is like at European Union level, but in Slovenia it is true that today, due to the ratio of capital and labour, the average gross wage in the European Union is 33%, even though gross domestic product per capita in Slovenia is on average 80.85% of the European average. So something is wrong in Slovenia so that we can create and have high quality jobs to the full. The initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises was mentioned. This initiative would be welcome if this were indeed the initiative of the Slovenian Presidency, but this is the initiative of the French Minister of Economy. Climate change. During the week when Slovenia was represented in the European Parliament, a key initiative was presented by the European Commission past Minister Viszak and past Minister Podobnik. And it is good that the European Council [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, I know you were, but you didn't represent this, but this was represented by the President of the European Commission, who didn't align much with you on this subject. But it doesn't matter. It is important that the European Council, however, said in March that by the next year the proposal for directives proposed by the European Commission would also be adopted. And if he has already been Minister of Podobnik in the European Parliament, it is clear that, with regard to financial markets, at the key initiative of the President of the Government, they have not even been invited to the evening meeting of Brown-Merkel-Sarkozy-Prodi-Barroso. So I'm going to finish by evaluating the President of the Government, and I'm going to ask him in particular, "What is he going to do?" Today, the President of the Government has used the term, which is written in a confidential document, yes, I quote the Prime Minister: "we have a crisis." We have a financial market crisis. I must say that I have listened very carefully to the Minister of Finance every time he spoke about turbulence, about the coordination of markets, so far none of the senior representatives of the Slovenian government has used the term crisis. That is why I would particularly like to ask the President of the Government what was the advice of the European Council for the Functioning of Ecofin. What should Ecofin say at an informal meeting in a few days about the crisis? How will the care and risk management be enhanced, how will the evaluation standards, especially non-liquid assets, be improved, and will some experiences from the Slovenian banking restructuring be recommended to anyone else? The three areas discussed by the European Commission occurred outside the Slovenian Presidency. Maybe that's even good. "That's why the European Council was," according to European observers' assessment, I quote, Thursday 18 March, Bulletin Quotiden Europe, number 9624, Ferdinando Ricardo; "on the one hand, great disappointment, because the key decisions were not dependent on Slovenia, but also encouraging." My assessment therefore remains an under-ambitious Slovenian Presidency and is too small and not ideal. Finally, only the Mediterranean Union, or the Union for the Mediterranean, is the main political initiative of this meeting. And this political initiative has only resulted in a large French presidency starting on 13 July. It is good that this Mediterranean Union is obviously now fully involved in the Western Balkans, and it would be good for Slovenia, especially in today's and tomorrow's informal Council of Foreign Ministers, to stress the importance of preparing this Union for the Mediterranean, including taking into account the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, especially now that it is nearer to the Mediterranean, on the Adriatic, the ERC has actually ceased to apply. Thank you very much and I hope that I will receive appropriate answers from the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance to the questions and that we will also get answers to the other questions raised in the recitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. Entrepreneurship, innovation, the flow of knowledge, capital flows, more jobs, a flexible labour market, strengthening structures, sustainable investment, development strategies and a number of other important objectives, of which we are very promising in Slovenia and Europe. Yeah. All that's been said is important. However, if there is no joy in this Europe, in this Slovenia, if there are no more children, if there is no hope, more consciousness for life, then - What can we hope for? In these documents that I have the opportunity to see, the predictions of this action, the demographics of birth, the hope, the joy of life - nothing. Then to whom should we give this Europe with the flow of capital, with more jobs, with sustainable investments and the like? But to whom? Why are we doing this? Does that make any sense? No one. You know, the power of the state isn't in a strong army, a strong police force, I don't know, a growing economy, innovative departments, strategies. The power of the State depends on the smallest article, on what we usually forget. It's from the family. From a family that lives on true values. And so the power of Europe and Slovenia in the future will depend on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, Your Honor. It was expected that the President of the Government would try to present to the National Assembly in particular that part of the European Council's recent meeting, which he believes was successful or at least satisfactory. At the same time, he cited certain facts and situations in particular areas or Member States concerning topics on the agenda of the meeting, which we could even read in more detail in the report of the Government on the participation of the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, at the European Council. The title of this report is of its own importance because it refers to the participation of the President of the Government at the European Council. We have also considered this report at a meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. However, according to the media, in particular foreign media, we have also been able to hear individual findings at the expense of this meeting. We have monitored, as far as possible, the debate in the European Parliament. In fact, foreign journalists accompanying the Council of the European Union have expressed considerable criticism in some evaluations towards Slovenia as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union. Today, however, we have not heard anything about what would be about half the time since Slovenia is the President of the Council of the European Union - a kind of assessment of Slovenia's role as President of the Council of the European Union. By the way, the President of the Government keeps saying that Slovenia is leading the European Union, which is, of course, totally incorrect and misleading at the same time. Well, even individual ministers are often misquoted by the individual formations whose meetings are held. At the beginning of this period it was heard that Slovenia was ahead of a historic opportunity. Even if we agree that this is a historic opportunity, Slovenia seems to have made a worse use of it so far. Part of it is due to the staff composition of this government, sorry, but that's what I think. At least minimal diplomatic experience, language skills and substantive knowledge of specific matter are a prerequisite for the Minister to successfully play the role of co-ordinator in a particular field. You will probably agree with me that coordination in the last texts cannot be done efficiently and creatively through the translator, for example, we can make this clear. It is therefore understandable that Slovenia has made little use of the possibility for it to introduce concrete content as the Chair in the various formations of the Council of the European Union and its sub-televisions, the latter being around 200, and, as far as I know, Slovenia has used only two of these options. If I'm not properly informed, I'm sorry. Otherwise, it is partly understandable that Slovenia does not have experts in all these different fields, but could agree with the other two countries of this "turnus" to take the initiative here. The question is whether this is the case as a matter of urgency. The poor reaction of the Slovenian Presidency is a logical consequence of human resources policy, especially at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let me argue this way: of the 11 key ambassadors who are currently employed here in Ljubljana, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, only 3 were directly drawn to the tasks of the Presidency, others were removed and many of them were ambassadors in the Member States of the European Union. And why are they being pushed away? Maybe because they're not "ours"? The government has so far not used the capable personnel Slovenia has. She has not used personnel outside the state administration, in civil society and at universities, personnel who are experts in specific fields. No, she's hired students, and that's very interesting, and they can learn a lot. However, it is not possible to get rid of the feeling, but more than just the feeling that we have to deal with a human resources policy that is clientelistic, party-based and sometimes neutistic. Many are asked whether it was a significant breach of the common security and foreign policy in the case of Kosovo. See, after Slovenia was declared independent and independent countries, the European Economic Community was significantly more divided than it is today. France, the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain were opposed. Moreover, it was the first such case of the collapse of the country. Kosovo is now the last such case in the area of the former Yugoslavia. At that time, the European Economic Community was able to unify itself in December 1991 on the criteria for the recognition of the republics of the former SFRJ and then on Slovenia and Croatia collectively recognised by 15 January 1992, under much more difficult conditions. Now it was an example that was easier in its own way and was a much stronger core of those major Member States that were in favour of recognition of Kosovo. Slovenia is also supposed to have a comparative advantage of knowledge of the Western Balkans and therefore does not have greater persuasiveness, and it does not appear that it has taken advantage of this. Recently, Minister Rupel visited the Middle East and asked what the European Union could do here. It was not heard that I would take some of my ideas there to check and then take some concrete initiative. Of course, there are some other cases where we are not fully presented with the concrete attitude of Slovenia. Tibet has already been mentioned today, the Mediterranean Union as well, we know what is happening to France's Olympics initiatives, and France seems to be running a bit ahead and taking the initiative. It is therefore more than obvious in the back that Slovenia has not proved itself to be more pervasive or original, nor is it more effective. That is why we have to deal with the formalistic and non-personal implementation of the Presidency. That's what he says so far. I hope we can make more of this in the next three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u34	President, thank you so much for your word. ""Gaudeamus igitur juvenes dum sumus - We look forward to it as long as we are young. The country is young, has achieved excellent success in this short period of time, and each of us Members welcomes this matter here. It is also wise to discuss these things, which are happening now more broadly in the European Union, at this meeting. I want the government to be as successful at the conclusion of the presidency as was the success of Parliamentary Dixi Band at the beginning when we played in Brussels and in Strasbourg and we experienced an ovation. I wish this from the heart to you, ladies ministers. Now for serious business. I think it's too much to say that we haven't talked about the Lisbon Strategy in the National Assembly as many times as we've talked about the adoption of different documents. That we are in favour of having the most competitive and dynamic and knowledge-based economy. And right now, in this report presented by the Prime Minister, there is also an entire passage aimed at launching a new cycle of the renewed Lisbon Strategy. I think we have also responded appropriately by signing the Bologna Declaration, the Bergen Communique, on all these things. However, I have a very bad feeling, dear colleagues, that when we come out of the declaration stuff at the level of the declaration, when we get to the performance, we have an extremely severe splinter. I'd just like to get involved in the modernization of universities. What's been going on with the network of universities lately is more clear than anything. What is happening with the renovation of Bologna programs is also more than clear. Let's go back to some Circulus vitiosus, money and desires. And it seems to me that in this way the state, as such, will not be able to enter this match equally to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. For example, this Circus vitiosus, what is it? If, for example, a university, say in Maribor, had all the conditions for establishing an art academy, the program was built, the professors were assured, the personnel were provided and the government said "stop". You won't go any further because you don't have a financier." But we know that we still need artists to make a big exchange, not that ours, because we take them to our academy, are going to study from Berlin, Prague etc., etc., but this is now a deaf thing. And after universities are renovating these programs, which could now be made, and the money is not, they have their hands tied and indexed according to the old programs, and we are spinning around in a circle that, because of this, until all the programs are restored, and when the entire university cycle is to go after the Bologna renovation, it will not be done. Other countries do it with their left hand. I also think that because it is already stuck in the programmes; it is also the inclusion of young people in tertiary education, we have about 60% of them, we are at the top of the European Union, it points out that we will not get enough good and quality staff from such a system, which will be able to dine on the European labour market. I would therefore appeal to the Government somehow from this place, but for God's sake, ladies and gentlemen, it has adopted a 2009 budget to finance higher education, and there is no other basis in law than the Higher Education Public Funding Regulation, which applies only for 2008. And the basic development programmes can be shut down, but the government has taken it forward and how to go to the Bologna reform of the university, how to break up in the European space if there is not even a bit of listening here. The other thing I'd say at the edge is this. We were the first to have an idea, at least this Parliament, the Euro-Mediterranean Universities. There it was said - what we have done - we have put a million euros aside for this project to be carried out, but since the implementation of this project, Parliament, the general public knows absolutely nothing. We're stepping back somewhere. I'm calling you from this town. Don't do anything stupid. In Primorska three universities to establish, three - one is in Primorska, one is in Novi Gorica, and now the Euro-Mediterranean University. Where are you going to give it to the government? You're here, we don't have that kind of interference. Where will you locate her as one of your co-founders? No one in this world knows. And the third thing is that we have little time, and I would remind you of that. I would like to remind you very much that the future is not in earth technology, the future is in space technology. All the high technologies are up there and give once for God's sake also the goal of Slovenia joining the space game, so that it will also become a member of the European Space Agency. If you do this, you'll be doing a huge job in this remainder of your term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I estimate, in particular on the basis of the reports we receive from abroad, that Slovenia's Presidency is already quite successful and is expected to continue successfully. Certainly not as boring as the Austrian Presidency was when they were able to boast only with the introduction of the euro in Slovenia, but perhaps not as dynamic as the Finnish Presidency, but the tasks are open to and must be responded to. For our priorities, the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency include such tasks that have already lasted and will continue. And they're going to be stretched out over time and the effects are going to show up in a near future. Thus, in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy, which was almost forgotten, until Kok's declaration when the new chapters opened, namely, the fifth freedom for the free movement of knowledge and personnel. Then it is very important to review the needs of the type of personnel. Haven't we already done this in Slovenia when we redirected students from social sciences to science, engineering and electrical colleges. I also attach great importance to the environmental and energy package. The objectives set 3 times 20 and the continuation of the activities with Bali will be a long process and Slovenia has made its mark during its presidency mainly by consolidating the agenda, because the conference in Poznan and, above all, the Copenhagen meeting is awaiting us when we continue or consolidate or re-set Kyoto targets. Just the eco-energy package is something that will take maybe 10, 20 years to notice the first changes. All over the world, a whole bunch of obsolete technologies need to be replaced, and that's not going through the night. Therefore, it is unjustifiable to disappoint some over the conclusion of the Bali meeting. In fact, some pure wine was poured there or too much expectations were put on the real ground. There were also two words or two targets, one being "adaptation" or adaptation, because if we immediately reduce emissions by 100%, they will be drawn up for at least a few decades, or the consequences of the greenhouse gas emissions so far. That is why it is likely that in every country, even in Slovenia, we have already done so, to adapt legislation either in the environmental field, defence, health, or environmental changes, because in all countries of the world we already see them with increased weather disasters. However, even if we act immediately, we will face and deal with them for a few more years because of the delay. Then there was another concept that was launched in Bali, namely, "mythigation" or "releasing". Of some less developed countries with outdated and less clean technology, we probably cannot expect it to be replaced or stopped overnight. The European Emissions Trading Initiative, with emission vouchers, has raised global attention, some countries are willing to join voluntarily, such as Iceland, New Zealand and individual states in the United States of America such as Florida. In New York, they've already adopted a traffic management program, similar to London, and so on. And it is here that Slovenia has a major role to play in the remaining three months in bilateral meetings with these large countries to also prepare the terrain and trigger the greenhouse gas trading system. Meeting with Japan and the United States of America, which are certainly a very important event. It is a pity that we may not be chairing later when another president may have come from the United States, because today we have heard that the presidential candidates have included this chapter in their programme, namely environmental and energy changes, and then perhaps some spectacular decision could fall. Thus, in the projects that have been going on with us, we have added some added value during our Presidency and may have given a good starting point to the next Presidency, perhaps even to France, which also places great emphasis on environmental change. Finally, the last priority is to increase the stability of financial markets. This area is also extremely sensitive, as the whole world has been affected by the financial crisis, as a result of developments in the United States, and all European Union countries will have to face it more or less. In order to prepare a more favourable territory, to facilitate transport or to cope with this crisis, measures to reduce administrative barriers are certainly intended to give priority to small and medium-sized enterprises. These companies, as we know, are very flexible for changes in the market, grow rapidly and when they are no longer current or redirected production or a new one is established on their foundations. And right here is also, perhaps, a good basis for that part of the Lisbon Strategy, which talks about social work about the so-called "flexsecurity" or "flexicurity". And since Slovenia has contributed added value to all these three priorities, I believe that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union so far has been successful and we can only wish that it will continue to be so and that the countries of the Union, in particular the new accessions, will have some form of inspiration, and that Slovenia, as the first President of the new candidates, will be well placed in the history of the Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! When I listen to this debate, it seems to me that we are not all looking in the same mirror, but we are in a room with mirrors showing different images. I would like to start with the first decision, which brings great confidence to the members of the European Union. This first decision discusses the sound economic foundations of the European Union. But the European Union is also seeking its comparative advantage over other economies in greater social sensitivity. And if, on the one hand, we stress the importance of a solid economic foundation and stable economic growth, we also ask ourselves, "What are we doing with the social justice and social capital that Europe undoubtedly has?" And then, of course, it can't be very encouraging to raise companies' profits much faster than workers' incomes, thereby increasing social imbalances. We cannot be satisfied with this information if we find that almost one fifth of all workers in the Union have reduced working time. To the extent that this ensures adequate revenue, another thing is to increase substantially the percentage of those who are employed for a certain period of time. The definition of "defined time" is very different. For example, there are 31 million workers who receive very poor wages and 17 million live below the poverty line. It is said that they cannot afford an adequate, dignified survival through their work. This, however, shows a slightly less bright picture of Europe and shows the achievements of the Lisbon Strategy in a different light. I would like to go back to this to focus more fully on the 16th decision. He has me, of course, to talk about population ageing, climate change and energy issues, but there should be some things about environmentally friendly driving cars and the promises of our government and other legal proposals that do not come across. But, as I say, I'm only going to focus on the 16th conclusion, because I found that the two debaters before me were already talking about it, but they were speaking a little differently than I see this 16th conclusion alone. I do not think that the principle of gender equality is generally adopted in Europe as a priority for all policies. In the Lisbon Strategy, I see a desire to increase employment as a very pragmatic decision, and Slovenia can boast of a very good achievement in the employment of women, where we have already reached the established limit. In doing so, we do not want to say that we have been able to achieve this because it was already very high employment of women before Slovenia alone. And that we have been better equipped with some social services or public services than in any other country of the European Union because of women's high employment, so it is very difficult for me to accept that some people are telling me what we should do when it comes to child protection, but we have better experience than elsewhere. But what is interesting - look, I have in my hands the Report on Equality between Women and Men, 2008 - and conclusions that talk not only about quantitative aspects of women's employment and employment, but mainly about the quality of jobs to be created. And when I look at the 16th conclusion, the quality is swollen. She's not here. And from the fact that it is women who do not have access to better jobs, then there is also a difference in pay, there is a growing variety of things, which is beautifully written in this sixteenth decision also regarding the compatibility of professional and private life. What worries me most is that rather than allowing this to happen through quality public services, Slovenia lowers standards with recent legal changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u40	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! When a person or a group of people or an institution is available for half a year for a few things, of course it is perfectly normal for him to look at his way and his work after half of the time. To weigh it, to evaluate it, and to draw some lessons and conclusions from that first half to make it more successful in the second half. In today's report by Mr President of the Government, however, I feel like the matter is already closed, as if everything is good, nice and good. And it's like today's session is all about itself and that the promotion is for example "I feel Slovenia". I believe that we all feel good about Slovenia, but when we have such an opportunity to preside, I would be more interested in how others feel about us. After all we can read, find out, whether it's the media or whether it's the waiters on the Hill, I have the feeling that it's our will, this great desire to be more recognizable within Europe and the whole world to get lost, disintegrated and actually reduced to photo terms, to the number of posts, to what can be read in the clips, to how many times has there been something written about someone, how many photos there have been. While those essential things that are really meant to promote us, the real work, measures, ideas, remains or is hidden, unspoken, or is not. Slovenia still has three months to promote itself much more in the world with its ideas and also with the Presidency of our President of the Government to the European Council. There's a lot of options. Some of them were listed today. The problem is also that we are indeed one of the world's planned countries to see ourselves in some of the already too many articulated points, and that we do not see ourselves in what this Europe could get from us. One of the issues is this eternal beating of conclusions that talk about many things, but most of them like to focus on climate change. At times, people have said that if you have nothing to talk about, but talk about the weather, it's very dangerous, it's politically unburdened, and it's obvious that our presidency has fallen into this niche. I would like to say again, I would like to see that not only Slovenia would feel Slovenia, but also Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, instead of Mrs Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. When we talk about the first half of the Slovenian Presidency and the information from the Spring European Council, we are faced with the fact that, after this debate, part of the opposition does not want to understand what this summit of the European Union was meant to be. It has traditionally been aimed at economic issues, but now the opposition, not all of them, some are constructive and country-friendly, is also triggering interesting ideas, but quite a considerable part of it is seeing a severe lack of political issues why Slovenia has not opened up many political themes at this summit. And this is where it's obvious that Slovenia is completely in the shadow of big countries. To the presidency, she came up with the original ideas that Slovenia was planned and so on. I must say that I have my own experience with the quality of Slovenian Presidency on what European countries and European parliaments think and think. In fact, 14 days ago we hosted a conference of GAERC, a conference of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Committees on Foreign Policy and in countries where there are two homes, there are also Senate committees. This is a very prestigious assembly of European politicians and representatives of parliaments, for there are also former heads of government, former foreign ministers, very well-known people. And I tell you that we have received weekly commendations, both on the content of political approaches and on the organisation itself and on the performance of the formal work, which you generally recognise. Europe and European politicians are aware of how difficult Slovenia has been when preparing for recognition and recognition of Kosovo. And she did a great job at the GAERC conference. And, of course, in this light and in this subject, the unconstructiveness of most of our opposition is best seen. See, as I said before, now it's clear that big countries dictate Slovenia. It seems to me that if the current opposition heard the voters bring her to power to run this presidency, they would then agree that Slovenia is the largest country in the world. They think that based on such conclusions, which are fictitious, unarticulated, they could show something to the world. Other things also show that they are not state-favouring. See, in yesterday's election of constitutional judges, the President of the State, who represents this country perfectly, has been mined in connection with the presidency, and the knife has already been put in his back because they want the President of the doll, not the representative Slovenia. They want an independent president, he can't be independent. And get back to the idea of a strategy for the Western Balkans. I am sure that the Government is also preparing them, but half a year or four years before the presidency and the first half of the presidency, all efforts have been made to ensure that Slovenia is as mined as possible in this area by the opposition. It's a huge set-up! Ask your conscience in that part of the opposition where you sponsored the publication of the protocol with America, with the U.S. Foreign Ministry, and the severe consequences. They wanted to mine the European-American Summit in July in Slovenia. The whole pile was, until 14 days ago, "hands away", no need to rush, Slovenia should be detained, Slovenia should withdraw. It now criticises non-initiativeism in the Western Balkans. These are baseless criticisms, false and fair opposition would acknowledge here and tell the citizens: "You have done a great job in a difficult field." And I am sure that strategies are also being prepared, only in such opposition, which would immediately engulf the strategy, is not presented at the beginning, that is a fact. And because time haunts me. However, Slovenia's media report on successful Slovenian Presidency is significantly underreported. This is probably related to ownership, to ownership interests, to the fact that print media are non-governmental, anti-government, but last time a diplomat mentioned to me that in relation to, say, a conference of sports ministers that took this initiative against boycott, he said, "It is interesting that the London Times reported more to this than our newspapers." There are some things abroad that are more receptive, many ministers or on the Hill mines without a line in our newspapers. [[...]] There is no interest in the promotion of Slovenia. He's not here. Some of the silent levers are behind, citing as few reports as possible against the promotion of Slovenia for political reasons, because you are extremely afraid that the ruling majority would also promote themselves externally, but you are acting against the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, please either explain or prove or apologize for the allegations that the opposition sponsored those [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] , so you said, or part of the opposition, it doesn't matter when you quote [[...]] [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] in the publication of the records of that Protocol. [[...]] This is what I demand at this point, because this is not the first time that I ask, but usually after the others, from Mr Jerovsk to explain his instigation and unargumentated statements, and he never does.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u45	Mrs. Shirca, you know this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u46	The procedural proposal is that Mr Jerovšek either arguments his claims or apologizes for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u47	Mr. Jerovšek, are you a replica of the hotel? No, no, no. You're quitting, Mrs. Shirca, now it's Bones' turn, and then it's your turn to discuss it. Mr. Bones, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I think that today's debate would probably be a little more focused on the content itself if the content of the conclusions adopted by the European Council could be better informed and incorporated than Parliament. We know that this is also relatively difficult, given the dynamics of work in the European Union, because usually those key substantive issues are set for the last day or just before the meeting. Furthermore, if I could place this debate in a more self-critical manner from the point of view of Parliament, it would be good for Members to be a little more active throughout the entire mandate, and if they were a little more interested in these issues when they have the opportunity, when ministers are coming, or on competent committees, or when the parent committees are convened, or when their presidents refuse to discuss the contents of the European Union. I think that today's debate would probably be much more fruitful and would also be much more beneficial to some public reputation of the whole of Slovenia, especially at the time of the presidency. So, that's also true for each and every one of us. That is why it is difficult for us to discuss matters in which we are not involved daily, such as those of the Government. I think that the representatives of the Government are now enjoying in some way, in addition to an extremely difficult pace, even a privileged position when they are at the moment and must absorb very quickly all the content that has been before, in the last three years, very difficult, given that the European Union has been operating for 50 years. It is, of course, necessary to know to discuss at least the fundamental differences or competences of individual institutions of the European Union. We know that the European Council is not an organ of the European Union. This needs to be stressed first. In fact, the European Council is a meeting of presidents or political leaders who adopt some political guidelines, which, of course, are also the result of previous operational meetings or political decisions on operational bodies, which is in the European Union's world in different compositions, but usually the conclusions of the European Council do not have as concrete content as they sound today to be expected. I believe that the conclusions adopted under the leadership of Slovenia in this last European Council are expected and proportionate to the options that Slovenia, as Chair, can offer in the entire context. It is also important to know that, as a real new Member State, we have taken a slightly cautious approach to the Presidency, which I think is the right strategy. I think it's hard to argue with. After two presidencies before us, Germany and Portugal, which play a completely different role in the European Union, which have a different history and do not need to be changed here. It is necessary to take into account exactly the ratio of power that exists in every organised form of life. Certainly Germany before us and France behind us, this is just an objective situation in which we are in, and it was even before our presidency that we can barely lead anything on our own, if I say so in public now, a feeling that has arisen, but that is not the case now. That is why I think that in this first half of Slovenia has done well in the European Council, although I should point out here, and I miss this little by little that ministers or individual public authorities are not sufficiently presenting the achievements they have achieved in this first half. Those ministries that have already come to Parliament have made concrete achievements and these achievements are positive. I think that Slovenia is good at leading the Presidency in individual segments. The following Friday, I invite all Members and Members, when all the other ministries arrive, I think that at nine or ten o'clock, you are all invited to listen to what individual ministries are doing according to the individual compositions of the Council of the European Union. It would be very useful to know and know. In this way we can also achieve a synergistic effect in this, in the final stage it is actually about the image of Slovenia, which will not only be important for this election campaign. It seems almost a shame to paint a situation where it does not need to be too black or too sceptical or we are too weak to see because it is in the final stage of the presentation of Slovenia for the next ten years. I think that this project of the Presidency is an exceptional opportunity for promotion. And I don't think this show is bad, I think it's good. Why isn't the media interested, but it's clear. Because there are no conflict situations. Looking at it from this perspective, our presidency is not as interesting as any other. However, if we look at the implementation of the tasks in the spirit of good further development of the European Union, I think the Presidency is going well. But I am also convinced of something that we will also take care of in the next phase of a slightly more visible picture of Slovenia in the conclusions. Maybe there'll be a more attractive topic on the agenda. Maybe I should ask you one more question. Perhaps even if Mr President of the Government could respond to it. Slovenia is in a specific situation. How can it carry out negotiations in specific areas to the end, given that the ratification process of the Treaty of Lisbon is still taking place? If the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force next year, what does this mean for all those areas that will not be negotiated in the middle of the entry into force of the new rules in certain areas? I consider this to be an advantage that Slovenia can take advantage of in the negotiations, for those chapters for which Member States have an interest in ending or making difficult circumstances difficult for Slovenia in its work in various parts of the world, and it is also necessary to be conscious of this objectively. I think that the way in which Slovenia presided is good, as I mentioned earlier in the position of the Group of Members, is in some ways calmed by the soft and diplomatic management of very different issues on certain segments and very difficult topics. It was very easy for the European Council last spring to set very ambitious climate change and energy targets. Now, however, these objectives need to be pursued in some way. That's a little harder. Those questions that have been raised since last year about how to take home as little greenhouse gas emissions as possible and at the same time be open to the global economy as possible, how to prevent our production from moving to other parts of the world, which has already happened in the past and is now causing us some problems. This issue, which must be addressed, is also being raised in front of Slovenia as the Presidency. That is, when it comes to getting things into life, work is usually a little harder and less attractive than when we make very ambitious and ambitious political decisions. That is why I believe, as I mentioned earlier in the Group's position, that Slovenia is doing some kind of domestic work for the future of the European Union, but above all I think that the promotion of Slovenia is not so much dependent on whether we negotiate one decision more or less, but also on how we impress the politicians who come to Slovenia. I can say that, at the parliamentary level of the Presidency, the assessments so far are positive, including by Members and politicians coming from abroad. So far, I have not heard any serious criticism of the Presidency, even in an operational sense by the Government. And that is why I propose that we try to bring together this last part, this finale, truly with a desire for greater synergy. Here I would point out one position: those who are together on different committees, let us try to be even more substantively productive. Then, the Government and Parliament, I also encourage the Government here, that we are even more in touch, that information is exchanged in a timely manner. And then between the Member States, I think that, in the case of the Kosovo issue, that Slovenia has done relatively well in this situation. Nevertheless, I do not think that Europe has turned out to be as clarified as it was when Iraq was attacked and it has to be defined by each Member State how to react. I think that at least a minimum consensus has been reached here, which Slovenia has managed to maintain among the representatives of individual Member States. It also seems very important to me that there is an attempt to maintain synergies between the neighbouring countries of the European Union. Although Slovenia's priority is the Western Balkans, Slovenia has also shown here a sense of interest for the other Member States in the north, it is called cooperation for the northern dimension, if we say so. In some ways, this will balance the operation and, in fact, allow us to move forward with our priorities in the Western Balkans. After all, I would like to see that in the last part of the presidency, despite the fact that we are before the elections, we are able to achieve an even more synergistic effect in the area of content. As I have already said, I think the next Friday, when ministers from, I don't know, I will say to myself, ten ministries, I hope that some minister will also be involved or at least state secretaries who, after this last experience last Friday, will in my opinion present in a very interesting way what they are actually doing. In Slovenian media, it is difficult to track this substantive part of our presidency. From this submission of ministries, which we received in the first part at the invitation of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I think that the debate was very interesting and has also shown what we can count on until the end of the Presidency. In that sense, I would have finished. We all make the image of Slovenia during the presidency and it is very important what image we will create. That's why I'd like to ask everyone here once again to try to be as constructive as possible. I think that this positive image will benefit any political situation after these elections and after the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u50	Forty seconds, so very short. I agree with a lot of things that the President of the EU Committee has said. This is said, given the lack of substantive interpretation within our space, ignorance and the fact that citizens are still not really identified and notified by the fact that the Presidency is taking place with us. You said between the lines, very among the lines, because it was actually the government's possession and it's hard to feel love to order if you don't do anything on other levels. For example, European Members could also be present today. The Committee on European Affairs of the National Assembly should act in public. Whether we're colorless or colourless, it'll eventually come out after six months, now it shows [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much again, Mr President, for the floor. Now, after this debate, which took place in the Chamber, after a report on the conclusions of the European Council, I can say that the decision taken by Parliament's leadership to put this item on the agenda and also to hold a debate is useful, especially for better information. For I see that some of the basic things concerning the European Union are still unclear to some colleagues and colleagues, even in March 2008, although Slovenia has been in the European Union for four years. It would be good to at least fundamentally separate the powers of the Union and the powers of the Member States, what the Council of the European Union is, what the European Council is or what the Council of Europe is, these are three different institutions. At least these things need to be known before we discuss matters in some legislative body. In this debate, however, there were also many useful points that show that some Members and Members read the conclusions of the European Council thoroughly and understood them. In this text, which is in Slovenian on 18 pages containing 36 conclusions, there is no sentence, you could say that there is no word that would have much weight. Also where the general formulation appears to be concerned, it is the result of long-term coordination between the very different interests of the 27 Member States of the European Union in three vital areas. The conclusions of the European Council are not some kind of dry-cleaning directive. These are guidelines that affect the work and life of all European institutions, as well as all Member States. You need to know that the European Council is acting in a specific way, there is no other institution on the planet that is in any way similar to this, that conclusions are adopted unanimously, which means, of course, that they can change only unanimously. And when there is one thing in the conclusions of the European Council, this is a significantly larger and more difficult subject than, say, the constitutional text of one of the Member States, for which you need a two-thirds consensus in Parliament. In order to change some of the guidelines adopted unanimously by the European Council, you need consensus. Imagine working in a circle of 27 representatives or presidents of governments and 27 countries in the 27th, where everyone can block every word, every sentence and then every veto right to change. These conclusions included the words on which the coordination took place for years, and the debate at the plenary session took place for hours because these are difficult words, meaning many things, including changes in the habits and lifestyles of Europeans and Europeans in the coming years. These conclusions of the European Council will always bear the Slovenian seal because they were adopted at the time of the Slovenian leadership of the Council of the European Union and of the European Council. The importance of some commitments is not understood by the wider European public, even less so by the Slovenian public, because in some ways it is difficult to understand this relatively complicated operation of the European Union. However, to claim that this has been accepted elsewhere, but not on the European Council led by Slovenia, is proof of the essential ignorance of things as they are taking place in the European Union. But given that this is not so easy to understand, it is likely to take some time before this knowledge prevails. A few days ago, I presented these conclusions in the European Parliament. I can say that the situation was very similar, and more and more influential parliamentary groups in the European Parliament welcomed these conclusions as a step forward, but, of course, by some marginals, there were a lot of criticisms, which also flew into things that are not in fact in these conclusions, in short the picture is quite similar. Issues that were not the subject of the European Council and matters that were not even within the competence of the European institutions were discussed. In part, this painting was also in this hall. I am particularly disturbed by the fact that some want to reduce the ambitions of the Slovenian Presidency only in the Western Balkans. Not to see or be able to see that the world is something else or something wider, that the European Union is something wider and that it is one of the regions and also one of the problems we have. The great success of the Slovenian Presidency or the great success of what has happened in the European Council is that we have managed to protect the key content that has prevailed in the European Council from the "various" side proposals that would ultimately lead to the discussion of other things. The key issues that needed to be taken now would not be accepted. If these conclusions on the Lisbon Strategy, in particular the climate and energy package, were not to be adopted in this European Council and this would await the next one, which will be in June, we would miss all the deadlines related to this mandate of the European Parliament and of the European Commission. The European Union would face a 'fiasco' because it is expected that the Copenhagen conference in December 2009 will have adopted views or formal measures that we committed ourselves to last year and this year in the European Council. This would result in the possibility of achieving a global agreement and combating climate change and reducing greenhouse gas commissions to a minimum. So the fact that we are caught somewhere in this global timeline has largely dictated our pace of work for the European Council. Another reason why we could not afford some exotic debate on topics that would certainly attract greater attention to the public and the media is the fact that ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is taking place this year. This is the first and key political objective of the Slovenian and French Presidency this year. We can accept a lot of things, we are looking forward to it, but if the Treaty of Lisbon is not ratified, many of these promises and plans will automatically fall into the water, because we will be in the institutional crisis again, as we were bound by negative referendums on the Constitutional Treaty or on the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe. These things are not so simple and are not so unpredictable, nor are they so unknown to this National Assembly. The National Assembly unanimously supported the five priorities of the Slovenian Presidency and the first priority is the political future of the European Union. An agreement on content was reached. The contract was signed. But the most important formal step is now with ratification. Six Member States have ratified the Treaty, another one has to do so, one of them will have a referendum. In the proposals on what would be dealt with in the various Union Council configurations, as well as in the European Council, there have been many things that could have a negative impact on the ratification processes in individual Member States, since both domestic and national issues are often linked to the ratification process. We now have two such cases - Slovakia and Poland, where the ratification process is complicated for internal reasons. The agreement within the European Council, as well as the general logic, say that none of the things that could threaten the ratification process in any country, including the smallest Malta, is as dangerous as if it were still a problem, fortunately, as it would be to say good-bye to the entire project in that sense. So this year 2008 is not usually a year as far as the chances of the small jumping high and making noise and doing commercials are concerned. Small problems aren't their size. Small problems are their complexes. I was going to tell Mr. Lakhovnik, but he's not here. This sensitivity must be taken into account. This sensitivity will, of course, also be a problem in the second half of this year when France holds the presidency. We believe, however, that most of this task will be solved by the end of the Slovenian Presidency and that we will successfully hold a referendum in Ireland and that some 20 Member States will also ratify the Treaty and breathe more easily. There's gonna be a few of them left. Some new problems will arise, but let us hope that everything will be all right. So, to smoke with debates that would raise a lot of dust, which, of course, would result in more publications in "clips" about the Slovenian Presidency, would be the worst possible service that Slovenia could afford for itself and for the entire European Union. With regard to reality, this European Council has largely ruled out two or three priorities of the Slovenian Presidency. The environmental-energy package. Key guidelines have been adopted. We have some further steps ahead of us in June. But we do have a timeline and we also have an agreement on principles. The Lisbon Strategy. We successfully launched the second cycle with significantly less problems than some expected. Thanks to the social partners. Someone quoted the comments of the leader of the parliamentary group, the socialist in the European Parliament, Mr Šulc. Much of these proposals of the European Parliament have been taken into account in one way or another. On the European Council, from the last elections in Cyprus, there is also a representative or president of one of the countries that I think for the first time since the European Union exists, comes from a Communist party and is called that. The Cypriot President also said that the social aspect of the Lisbon Strategy is far away, far from all the debates and conclusions adopted so far with regard to the Lisbon Strategy. It is certainly not true that the social dimension is neglected. However, it is emphasized what the Lisbon Strategy has justified from the outset and will always be, as long as it exists, that it is possible to lead a successful social policy solely on the basis of economic growth. Only economic growth creates a real basis for prosperity and the creation of new jobs. This has been fully demonstrated by the European Union over the last three years. In view of the discussions that have taken place, I would also say that, at least in key matters, it is necessary to separate what is competence and what is the European Union's domain and, of course, also the achievement of the Union Council-led country and what is the competence of the Member States. Many comparisons can be made to illustrate these relationships, and one is the one that must work, even if other things are not understood - the European Union budget covers about 1% of the European Union's gross domestic product, 1%! All other 29% are decided in national parliaments such as Slovenia and others when budgets are adopted. The relationship between powers is not entirely like this, but largely follows this. Therefore, to think that the European Union, with instruments agreed or already adopted, can influence everything, is a great illusion. Which means that it is also a great illusion to think that the country that runs the Council of the European Union can influence all these things. The issues under common competence on which joint decisions are taken are ensured, but it can only be implemented by convincing others, not by a majority of them, but in the decisions of the European Council everything, then every step forward is a achievement. I was a little disappointed when I heard about this meeting in London in two or three debates, where Slovenia was not supposed to be invited when crises were being discussed in the financial markets. We made this very clear at the outset, and so it was in all the records in all the foreign media that reported that this was not a meeting that was in any way linked to the European Union's competence. This was a coordination meeting of four G-8 Member States for a meeting to be held in the second half of the year. We have sent the European Commission to this meeting because we want some of the starting points, particularly those relating to the eco-energy package, to appear at this meeting, and that, if possible, this meeting of the group of industrially most developed countries in the world, provides some basis for the Copenhagen conference in view of our ambitions to achieve a shift or breakthrough in the next global climate change agreement. So someone who, despite the fact that things are explained, still insists on his interpretation, because he thinks it's okay or because he thinks it's harmful to the government, he's a little bit unsettled. It's been three months since then, and it's been said many times, and every letter could read these things. What is linked to the financial market crisis and to the European Union's response, Slovenia has coordinated in Ecofin since the Council of the European Union, including at the meetings of the European Central Bank, attended by Dr. Bayuk, Finance Minister. And the European Council has simply confirmed these conclusions and has also acknowledged to our finance minister, who, in previous coordinations, has achieved that there were no major open dilemmas, because if there were any remaining dilemmas on the European Council, this debate could also jeopardise the key objective that we had in the environmental and energy package. With regard to other topics that may or may not seem relevant to some or most important and could be on the agenda of the European Council. There have been many proposals from different sides. Many, including highly respected European global, global, non-governmental institutions, including the governments of some non-European countries, have proposed different topics to be addressed in the European Council. The meeting should take three years to put only some of the key elements on this agenda. I consider it a success that, where serious proposals were made, we have managed to channel things into other working bodies of the world, where they are being treated or in other parts of the European Council, and that we have resolved those that have managed to do so and otherwise, with other instruments. It's about Tibet. By the time the European Council took place, the Slovenian Presidency had harmonised the statement of all the Member States that had been published, at least mentioning it in our media, so that it would be difficult to overlook it. In a few days, we have reached a united position on this issue. The Olympic Games in China. We agreed on the views of the Ministers for Sport, Education and Presidents of the European Union National Olympic Committees at an informal meeting held during the planned flights in Slovenia. About Kosovo. The biggest fear that existed in the European Union was that the events in the Western Balkans, including Kosovo, would coincide in such a way that the European Council could not simply avoid this issue. Which, of course, also threatened the key objective we had for the European Council. Fortunately, the Council of the European Union for General and Foreign Affairs, composed of foreign ministers, resolved this issue earlier. Apart from some members of the Slovenian opposition, there is a unanimous assessment in the European public that the handling of this file has been the best possible during the Slovenian Presidency so far. We have achieved the uniform support of all those practical measures that the European Union can implement, on the fact that you know what the difficulties some Member States of the European Union have with this issue. Nevertheless, their agreement on these measures was also obtained. There is no time to go into a more detailed description of this. About the Western Balkans. An informal meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers is about to begin in Slovenia. This meeting is also attended by well-known ministers and other representatives of the governments of the Western Balkans region, where this will, of course, be one of the central themes. There was no need to duplicate the same things and to push this topic on the European Council because there was no room, nor is the Spring European Council dedicated to these topics. In addition, this would draw the attention of Slovenia to this topic because it is better to address this topic in Slovenia. As regards the social picture in the European Union. Once again, you have to be honest. The picture is not black and white, and if you look at the conclusions of the European Council, I think this picture is also very balanced. On the one hand, it is true that the share, now I speak for the European Union as a whole and for the whole of statistics, of the cost of salaries in the European Union is slightly falling compared to other costs. Here there are European unions that point out this, right and there is no big political divide or difference in the European Parliament or in the European Union. Everyone, perhaps with the exception of one political group in the European Parliament, draws attention to this as a problem. The fact that this is a problem has also been quite unanimously pointed out by the Social Summit or the tripartite social summit that took place before the European Council. On the other hand, we must not overlook the fact that the high economic growth achieved in the first cycle of the renewed Lisbon Strategy since 2005 in Europe has created new jobs for millions of people, that, because so many millions of people have more work, reduced the pressure on certain social transfers, that this has allowed some restructuring and reform and the creation of a basis that at this moment some global economic instability in the world of the European Union is allowing a much stronger material foundation or a real basis for dealing with these challenges than if it were not. If the European Union were to face oil prices above $100 per judge, with these food prices as they are now, and with these effects of the crisis mainly on the US financial market in 2005, when these data were different, when in most European countries or the largest European countries the unemployment problem was one of the first, when it was low or significantly lower economic growth, these consequences would be significantly higher and would eventually be reflected in a significantly worse social picture in the European Union. Thus, a consensus has been reached where there is no greater political division, that the Lisbon Strategy and the success of the Lisbon Strategy in this first period since its renewal in 2005 is in some way a response to the challenges of these turbulences in the global economy, and despite some of the voices that have also been heard in the European Parliament, that the time is such that all reforms need to be frozen and waited for, is enormous support for the continuation of these reforms and that, in fact, the European Union is focusing on those key points that the long-term European Union can do, as was desired in 2000, when the Lisbon Strategy was first formulated, for the most competitive environment in the world. And it was during this period of implementation of the first cycle that, for the first time, at least in some sectors, productivity in the European Union overcame productivity in the United States, which was an illusion back in 2000. With regard to this social dimension of the Lisbon Strategy, the issue of "flexicurity" or so-called flexicurity was also raised. flexicurity is an approach that in some ways in the European Union also receives a formal domestic right. If we talked a few years ago about flexicurity, such as some success in Denmark and some other countries, particularly Scandinavian countries, this principle of flexicurity has now been won by over half of the Member States, as one of the key steps or captures in labour market reform. It is said that a much more flexible labour market where it is easier to lose a job, but it is also easier to get a new one, preferably better and where there are real forms of assistance during unemployment. This is not yet something that the general social model of the European Union could say at this point, but we can say that we are moving very quickly towards it. This is, not entirely, but largely supported in the dialogue of the European social partners at the three-partite social summit, where Slovenia was already in the last year, when Slovenia participated, as the next president, significantly greater concerns than it is today. Even in the European Parliament, in this debate that developed on Wednesday, according to our report, this dimension has received adequate support. Finally, there is something else about the Union for the Mediterranean or now the official title: Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean. It's a pencil that also shows by its name that it's an upgrade to something that's already existed. As you know, the European Neighbourhood and Enlargement Policy is one of the five priorities of the Slovenian Presidency. This priority is not only called the Western Balkans; this has been said in at least 10 discussions. The Western Balkans is part of this priority. It is clear that, given the current events in Kosovo, Serbia, the fact that the Slovenian Presidency with this priority, which is also a priority of the tria, is: Portugal, Germany and Slovenia, coincided with some events that were more or less inevitable and that this fact is therefore being pushed by the Western Balkans within this priority to the top and around this for at least one year, there has been no major dilemma and we have been seriously confronted with it. However, European Neighbourhood and Enlargement Policy is something that is significantly more than the Western Balkans. In fact, the Western Balkans are no longer neighbours of the European Union. If you look at the map, you see that the Western Balkans are something that is surrounded by the European Union. The Western Balkans is also an area that has, as the only part of its neighbourhood or non-membership, a kind of formal European perspective in terms of full membership. This was first concluded in Thessaloniki in 2003 and then repeated several times in different conclusions, different formats of European institutions, particularly the European Council. But Europe has almost half a billion inhabitants. And the strategic interests of the European Union are not limited to the Western Balkans alone. The Mediterranean, with a large part of Africa, is one of the most important concerns, as is the long-term view of the Western Balkans. Ukraine and Georgia, too, and the entire eastern part there against the Black Sea, pose a longer-term major challenge from the Western Balkans. What is Western Balkans is, at least, a basic strategy, clear and the European Union is here united. As early as 2003, the Member States have decided that we will solve the problems in the Western Balkans in the light of the European perspective, in the light of the full membership of the Western Balkan countries in the European Union, which means that instruments are also known. From various measures, such as visa liberalisation, free trade agreements, to association and stabilisation agreements already signed by some countries, to the beginning of negotiations on harmonisation of legal order and full membership. With regard to the time dimension, things are still very open, but not with regard to the final goal. And there are tools available, there are resources available, there are administrative capacities available to the European Union and this problem will be resolved. With regard to the Mediterranean dimension of European neighbourhood policy or the eastern dimension, things are not that simple. There are great differences here between Member States, as regards the European perspective of the countries of the neighbourhood, either in the Mediterranean or in the East, which want to become members or members of the European Union. But there are no, there are no final conclusions here, nor about countries such as Ukraine. In one of the countries for which this decision has already been taken, this is Turkey, many new concerns have emerged. It is therefore inevitable that any Presidency, including Slovenia, will also deal with this problem. Of course we do. It would be totally unrealistic to think that these things could be forgotten. The idea of establishing a new creation, which French authors originally named the Mediterranean Union, brought a lot of unrest into the European space. On the one hand, there was no one who did not recognize and recognize the need for the Barcelona process, which previously represented a loose form of this cooperation, to be upgraded in terms of very concrete projects to be carried out. Even in view of the fact that this part of the European Neighbourhood Policy has been allocated approximately EUR billion per year to the European Union budgets and that some of these funds have not been spent so far because there have been no useful projects and they have been very difficult to reconcile. On the other hand, it was clear that it was not possible to start now a project that would end up receiving its institutions and its budgets in such a way as to include only part of the European Union in this project. Slovenia would not have any major problems directly with this because it is a Mediterranean country and would in any event be present. But problems would arise with everything else. And when I presented the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency, given that there was a question, czech, and this is now some result that others have argued - when I presented the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency in the European Parliament in January, I made it very clear that Slovenia opposes this proposal that we oppose the duplication of institutions, that we are against new works involving only part of the European Union, and that we will not support this project during the Slovenian leadership of this project. Of course, it would not be possible to carry it out without the fact that - given that it was calculated that some European institutions were involved without this support. And this position of ours in the debate in the European Parliament, where 50 Members of the European Parliament were debated, received almost unanimous support in January. By the way, when we presented the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency, where more than 50 Members of the European Parliament spoke in the debate, we received support from virtually all political groups and all Members, except two, one from the extreme left and the other from the Liberal Democracy in the European Parliament. But that's just by the way. In short, this conclusion or this statement, because if you look at the conclusions of the European Council, you will see that these conclusions have 36 points and that there is no Barcelona Process in either of these points: the Union for the Mediterranean. This is a special statement that we have agreed on and adopted, which includes elements that the Slovenian Presidency of January put in the European Parliament as a condition for us to move forward with this project. These are the fact that the project does not defraud institutions and that it includes all members of the European Union. And that's what France ended up agreeing to, and that was unanimously accepted. At the same time, an agreement was reached, which is not formulated in a declaration, because there was no need for this in the June European Council, in addition to the fact that the Western Balkans will certainly be addressed in particular in this world within this topic. By making this proposal, which I have described before, France has, of course, launched a debate on balance. This is an important debate. Finally, these decisions also have an impact on the way in which the European budget divides the funds earmarked for neighbourhood policy. This debate on balance, of course, led to a result which was inevitable. To address with the same concern the rest of the European Union's neighbourhood and we have committed ourselves, not to Germany, as someone here said wrongly, but to Poland, to prepare a slightly more concrete starting point that we will coordinate in time for the European Council in June. At the end of the day, allow me to repeat once again what are the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency. The first priority is the political future of the European Union. This is a key political priority for the management of the Council of the European Union throughout this year. Most of this priority falls on our shoulders because most ratifications, including the referendum in Ireland, will take place during the Slovenian leadership of the European Union. These priorities are by the logic of things subordinated to everything else. In short, none of the other priorities must be strategically compromised by this first. Because if we put her at risk, then the weight on the scale is more important than the weight of any of the other priorities. The second priority is the environmental energy package. And why this is so important for the European Union and for the world as a whole, I have tried to explain it in the first place and before. We are also tied here to a global timeline, and if the European Union does not draw on its example here, then there will be no global agreement. And as long as the European Union does not apply the criteria now in force or to the end, even in concrete terms, by adopting the whole package, it will not apply to the Member States, nor will it succeed in the proposals for a global agreement. All these criteria: justice, proportionality that we have set ourselves to make the package real will also have to be offered to others. Which means they'll be richer, and the European Union is, of course, among the richer, they have to shoulder their greater burden in the future. It's the only guarantee of success. The third priority of the Lisbon Strategy, where we have done more or less with the launch of the second cycle for our mandate, is yet another continuation, but the key thing is done: European Neighbourhood and Enlargement Policy. The first part of the challenge is that we have found a formula for an acceptable concept of the continuation of the Barcelona Process and the Mediterranean Union as a whole. At least in the first part, we have made relatively successful the relationship or coordination of the positions of the European Union towards the crisis in the Western Balkans. But there's another part waiting for us. In short, we are here somewhere in the middle, and we will continue with the eastern dimension of neighbourhood policy. Then we have the last, the fifth priority, this is intercultural dialogue, which is a priority throughout the year, including the French Presidency. Here we have started with a resounding event in Slovenia, many events are taking place, and we have also very well motivated the European Parliament, which has taken on a large part of the implementation of this priority. So much for that, even though it's not today. We did not propose this point and this debate in order to discuss the Slovenian Presidency at all, but only the report with [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? The same applies to government representatives. Check-in is on. Two panellists have been reported as well as the President of the Government. That's why it's time for an individual debate. Three minutes. Please. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Don't let it go unanswered. Mr President of the Government said that this decision was around the Union for the Mediterranean, one of the so-called permanent decisions of the European Council. I'd agree with you. However, if we look at the media and not just domestic media, especially foreign media, then you will probably agree with me that, in addition to the construction of the French-English axis, this is probably the main political initiative in the European Union this year. And they run France. It is good that Merklov, at the edge of CeBIT, reached an agreement with Sarkozy on this site and a half of the long document that we Members, members of the Parliamentary Union have been able to obtain, which is also recorded in the internal document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is good that all the Western Balkan countries are involved in the Union's Mediterranean initiative. It's just a question of who did it. You, as chairman or at a meeting, Madam President in 2007. I also agree with you that it is good that you have talked about financial stability. But again. Who has given the initiative to meet if you want EU-4 or G-4 on the subject of financial stability? President Janez Janša? No, no, no. First Minister of Great Britain, Gordon Brown. And to conclude. Someone said today that the Slovenian Presidency was good, and that the Austrian Presidency was, in fact, somehow completely incompetent. Let me remind you, Chancellor Schuesel referred on 1 January to meetings on the subject of the gas crisis. Mr Janez Janša, at the meeting, on the subject of financial stability, because this was too complicated a meeting, was not even invited. Mr. Barroso forced him to be invited. Therefore, it is entirely inappropriate to say and demean the Austrian Presidency or even the individual former heads of government. The European Union has many challenges, but during this European Presidency, the social dimension and the dimension of financial stability are not sufficiently highlighted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. After all this time, and even after today's presentation of the arguments and the Government's report, it is clear that Slovenia is well running the European Union and that all the meetings so far have been successfully implemented, all the key decisions, including, of course, the Spring European Council. Regrettably, however, it is important to note what we have just witnessed that this is the endless calibre of the part of the opposition that has been invited to lead the European Union together with the Government, for in the eyes of foreign Slovenia, the European Union is chairing the European Union, and when the question of the confidant was raised, it arrogantly rejected it. Moreover, she suggested that Slovenia should just leave its leadership to the next country, saying, France; this was mentioned several times during that period. Of course, nobody wants to think about it anymore. I think it is very clear here that the decision of the coalition, which supported the leadership of the European Union and supported the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its current composition in this decision, was correct, good for Slovenia. At the same time, we can only express our regret for all these endless attempts to make ourselves at home, and especially sad, abroad, to diminish the importance of our joint leadership of the European Union as a whole. Indeed, in this way we take the sincere joy of this remarkable achievement of Slovenia, which is unique in history, because by the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon Slovenia will never again lead the entire European Union alone. And for this reason, this is something that takes what is actually the greatest value that every citizen in himself overcomes, that is, the value of patriotism. And why does the opposition do this to themselves? However, this is largely comparable to that constant attempt to reduce the value of victory in the Slovenian war, in the war for Slovenia, in the independence of Slovenia, and in fact it is in some ways symbolic that the person who was unfortunately surrounded by "ad personam", much less by content, is the same - it is the case with the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. It is unnecessary to say here that it would be good for at least the second half to stop by the opposition to exploit all the forces they have at home and abroad, I am also thinking of a European Member, to throw a bad light at Slovenia, so that the existing government is harmed because the elections are approaching, so that all come from a single assessment - that Slovenia, when leading the European Union, is an important member of the international community and that it is a one-time opportunity [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u58	and that it would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u59	Mr. President of the Government has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much. All decisions taken since 1 January of this year and adopted by the European Union and having any effect and which are linked to the reactions of the European Union, as well as the Member States, to this instability or crisis in certain financial markets. All these decisions have been taken on or even chaired by the authorities led by Slovenia. The most important or 99% of the most important on the bodies led by Slovenia and where it has also formulated or co-formed these conclusions. No conclusions were adopted at this meeting of the four G8 Member States in London. If any conclusion has been reached that applies to us and anyone knows it, then quote it to me. I must disappoint Mr Cwickel that even at the next meeting of the G8 Member States Slovenia will not be invited, because unfortunately it does not belong to the eight largest industrial countries and that this will probably be similar for the next 50 years. So that Mr Squeakl can hold the debate he had here for the next few years if he is a member of this National Assembly. As far as the renunciation of this European Council is concerned, one topic can be excluded and it can be said that it was the main one. I myself participated in three press conferences during the session, there were several hundred journalists at all, the Mediterranean Union was one question everywhere, and the answer was the same, and this was not the subject at all, given that we agreed on the matter, the topic would be if the European Union were to break up. But since we settled the matter, it didn't reflect. That this was the main theme, that this was the main political initiative in Europe this year, can only be argued by someone who does not monitor or read European media at all. If so, I would also recommend reading the French media after presenting the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency in the European Parliament and the reactions that have been on that proposal and comparing what we have actually adopted in the European Council in relation to the Barcelona process.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have a procedural proposal on this point. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you very much. There are two procedural proposals. The first procedural proposal is that, in view of the debates and in particular the fact that the story around the Union for the Mediterranean is being undermined, we delete an important part of the document "internal" or that this document remove the provision "internally" from this document. In fact, the President of the Government kept talking about this document during the debate and, of course, it is very difficult to counter it, unless, of course, I am also in breach of the provisions of the Secret Data Act. But it is undoubtedly stated here that the President of France, Sarkozy and Chancellor Angela Merkel, together, presented to the European Council on the basis of a written contribution submitted to the leader and this written contribution is a fundamental political initiative because it also foresees the co-chairship of this Mediterranean Union or the Union for the Mediterranean. And another procedural proposal concerns the interpretation of Mr Grimes. I would ask him kindly if he would present to us, of course, a magnetogram from the debate in the National Assembly, in which it was proposed that the Presidency be transferred to France. It is true, however, that Mr Grims can get it at the MFZ, that the French Presidency's initiatives were that if the President of the Government really meant to resign in November. It's not a problem. France will preside as of 1 January 2008. So he got a little confused about what he was reading. The fact is that we have never proposed the withdrawal of the presidency in the National Assembly of Social Democrats. At the initiative of the Prime Minister of the Government to propose to the National Assembly even a debate on his resignation or confidentiality, of course, the French leadership and origin responded very precisely and quickly: "No problem, Mr. Janez Janša, if you do not want to preside, we are entering with 1. One." And as I said today, they're doing it substantively, at least on some points. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u64	So I would suggest two procedural proposals to vote on them, the withdrawal of the point of 'various' and Mr Grims to say where the source is for what he just took completely wrong and from the context. Apparently, he reads a lot of classified and other documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I cannot accept your procedural initiative for the two proposals, because today there was an information agenda with which the President of the Government informed us, and this was also the debate. I have to tell you, mag. I have been told that you have abused the procedural proposal, twice, and you have discussed it, and I cannot accept this proposal of yours. There are also no replicas in this situation now that time has been divided. I therefore note that the National Assembly has become familiar with the information, I conclude the debate and also this item on the agenda. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, please, I have completed the point and there are no further questions or suggestions on this point. We're moving on to nine. Period of the day - This is a second defensive proposal for a law on the subsidisation of diet in the context of a regular procedure. Excuse me? EXACTLY, IF YOU SAY THE PROPOSAL.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u66	Take a very close look, Mr President, at the material we have received right: we are attaching the material to the points and we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, after the closing point, vote on the next proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic shall, on the basis of a presentation of the conclusion of the debate of Members and Members and the response of the President of the European Council, be informed of the conclusions of the Spring European Council." [[...]] I ask whether this material, which is at the point and which has been published in the Rapporteur, still holds or whether we will vote on this decision or not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The working bodies and the College of the President of the National Assembly have decided that this is how the meeting takes place, and I have concluded that the National Assembly has also accepted the information envisaged from the President of the Government and that I am concluding the debate on this point once again. We continue the 9th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet in the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mr Tank for further explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Chairman, I must say you have good nerves. We have a law in the field of education ahead of us. The law refers to the subsidisation of the student diet, this matter or similar matter we have tried to regulate several times so far, even in the previous mandate, but all of these attempts have somehow ended in claurine, have failed because the previous coalition, which was mainly composed of liberal and social Democrats, has not supported them. Obviously, over-reviewing those short-term financial effects has prevailed, and the financial implications are not largely addressed to direct, immediate and long-term effects if this area is regulated. Many studies have also addressed the problems of student diet. With these were Members of this and also a previous reference, particularly those coming from the field of education very well and in detail, but there was no serious policy approach to regulating this area. In other words, the previous coalitions in the budgets have allocated some additional or increased funds to the student diet, added some candy, just to cover their eyes, but to a serious approach, as has not been said. It is only this law that governs this area in a very systematic way. Thus, in the field of content, space, time, or dynamics, resources, organizations, as well as elsewhere. We are aware that changes or that the law will bring about changes in the field of education. There will also be a need for changes in other areas, but the law will have very large, very obvious positive effects. The law provides funding or co-financing of a warm meal for every student, which is currently just over 90,000, at a rate of 2.42 euros a day for every hot meal, the same amount of subsidy that students have. At the annual level, this means around €480 for student subsidies, and these are not small funds. All those who are somehow socially sensitive know that when these subsidies, which will belong to the student, are relatively large, even greater if the family has two or three students at the same time. It should also be said that this first, most difficult step will be taken in this mandate, as the Ministry must prepare all the relevant bases and also carry out, the Ministry and the contractors, all the necessary procedures for this project to be implemented in a timely manner by 1 September. There may be some problems in a number of areas. This is usually a demanding part, and it is not always the best place for everyone. But I am counting on the school term to be so strong that these problems will be minimal. At the same time, I would like to thank all those who have contributed in any way to the drafting of the text of the law, which cooperated with their comments. We have taken a lot of this into account because it was positive because it improved the text of the law, even in these proposals. I also continue to count on the implementation of the law to bring many things, and we will also support those good proposals. Thank you, too, for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. May I have the president of mags, please? Branka Grims to present the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u70	Also on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, which, at its meeting on 6 March 2008, addressed the proposal for a law on the subsidisation of the student diet, examined it in detail and adopted the amendments to just all the articles of the law and added one more, that is to say, a new article 11a. With regard to the comments made by the Government and the State Council, in particular, the possibilities for implementation, i.e. the principles that a warm meal should be obtained at the time of instruction and, as a rule, within the school premises. However, the question was raised as to the possibility that schools, at least most of the schools, would fully comply with the principles envisaged by this law at this time. Nevertheless, the basic solutions have been adopted practically by consensus, as stated, and amendments have also been approved to all articles and, finally, the second reading text has been confirmed, so that we propose to the National Assembly that this law should also be adopted. As the most important novelty that has been adopted on the Committee, however, it would highlight the fact that this law will begin to be implemented and thus introduce a warm meal with the next school year, this fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his position. Please, Minister of Education and Sports, Dr. Milan Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, dear fellow Members! Therefore, the Government has once again the opportunity to support the proposal for a law on the subsidisation of the student diet, as proposed by the Group of Members. We note that this law realizes what is already contained in some of the basic documents dealing with the said matter, in particular the Resolution of the National Food Policy adopted in 2002, as well as the Guidelines for Healthy Nutrition in Education and Education Institutions in 2005, and is based on other documents and studies, so that the Government is convinced that the law is going in the right direction, solves one important dilemma, as has been highlighted several times, these are the unregulated diet conditions of the student population, which is actually slightly more than any other part of the school population. The Government will make every effort to prepare by that time limit, as provided for in the proposal for a law, all necessary logistical and other conditions for the fulfilment of all the obligations arising from this law. I am confident that by implementing this law, the eating habits of students who are now poor will be argued by the institutes, significantly better and that this will also contribute to their not only healthier way of life, nutrition, but also to more effective and quality schooling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first consideration of the bill's proposal to present the views of the parliamentary groups at its 35th meeting, it is not possible. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 27.3.2008. I would warn you that we will be discussing the amendments, so I will not allow a general debate on this at this point. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[...]] [[to talk to each other.]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna wait a second, and I'm gonna open the application. [[..]] However, we will be discussing amendments to Article 3. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. I still have a lively debate on the committee where the law, which is so well-prepared, has 14 articles and is every amendment, has been carried out by the amendment coalition without discussion. I expected that the coalition at the National Assembly would try to explain the amendment it had tabled because the Ministry had already made an objection to my claim yesterday that the actual costs of how much the diaspora diet in the form of a free hot meal would in fact mean that this was not a true claim. And now please see the amendment to Article 3 what this amendment actually brings. Let there be no mistake, but I say two things of principle. Social Democrats have always advocated the necessity of food regulation for all ages of schooling. Second point. We've never been able to hide that high school students are the worst in school. That is why we have also tabled amendments, so we have also asked, for example, on October 22nd, Minister of the Beast what are the latest data on organised school meals in secondary schools and Minister of the Beast in his committee has not even indicated the possibility of something radical changing. He's only given some statistics. But now we have received an amendment that radically changes the purpose, feasibility and feasibility of the law that we are discussing. This amendment says so if you look at it. It corrects the text by supplementing: "All beneficiaries of the value referred to in Article 5, that is 2,42." But it goes on to say, "The high school can also provide a hot meal in excess of the value referred to in Article 5, on the basis of students' demand." Who in this Chamber is so smart that from 1 September on, he can tell what the demand will be, how many those who will demand a warm meal in a superstandard performance. For the proponents also said that a warm meal could or soup was mentioned as a very healthy meal, and possibly with polenta it could also be a steak with an annex. All of this will be determined by the rules and regulations in accordance with the principles of healthy nutrition will, of course, be produced in a timely manner, everything will be very precise. Now I ask you again, you representatives of the Ministry on two things. In fact, how much money will be needed in the budget for this superstandard meal to be provided to all participants in education and how much it will actually cost what will have to be linked to this superstandard meal being distributed in premises that do not meet the sanitary standards for the distribution of a warm meal in school premises. These are very real questions that have as much banal consequences as money. If you can say a convincing answer to this question, I am particularly disturbed by the word 'question' in this amendment. We're talking about it like it's a market service. Because you haven't turned the subsidised amount upside down, and so far I thought these things were unprofitable. However, since I once worked elsewhere, not only in the National Assembly, I know that offering meals for the privates is a pit of gold because there is much to show what is offered and, in fact, something else can be offered. This is a comment at the expense of this, and I must say that I congratulate the Minister for the courage that he will decide on all these trivial details, and I ask now because he is not, Madam Secretary of State, where is the so-sung autonomy that can determine and decentralisation, because the Minister will decide on this by virtue of the principal definitions and commitment to the province of the largest party, and secondary education will be in the province domain. However, there is a great deal to be said and realized, given that none of the applicants wanted to discuss this amendment, which is a permanent practice, at least I went to review, to the 10th article on the Committee had only a comment on the Legislative and Legal Service and to the 14th article we had only the opposition's comments. In view of the fact that the coalition MPs have always clearly asked the Government now to explain, because yesterday, from the Ministry of Education, it was said that my claim that the amount cannot be determined in terms of what is now in the amendment that this is not a true statement will be very grateful for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you, Chairman. I will discuss the above-standard offer, which is also mentioned in this amendment. First of all, on a superstandard offer that touches the second part of the amendment, it is said that the school will be obliged to defend the standard offer, there is a warm meal, as long as demand is superstandard. In this context, of course, amendment applicants will have to explain how this looks or what it means to have students enrolled in school, whether they are vegetarians or diabetics, whether they want normal or otherwise, or how this will be regulated, including in the context of the autumn beginning of the teaching and the validity of this law. However, the second issue of the above-standard offer is the issue of the decision of the Government. And after all, Mr. Chairman, also the National Assembly. Can We Adopt Laws? No, or we know we can't, laws that don't have the money in the budget for its implementation in the current year and by the way, even next year. We are talking about the balance or we are talking about the budget, because the funds for what you are bringing today, so much and so many days before the elections, are not provided. And we in the opposition, if we file a law that has no defined financial implications, the law doesn't even come to the door of the secretarial office where the laws are filed. In this respect, the government offers a superstandard offer. During Easter holidays, it is said that he brings gifts from Santa Claus. While we say the same questions, here are the amendments of the opposition, the amendments of all the years we have invested on this subject, this is said in the opposition to the student, to ensure the gradual improvement of the student diet. No, no, no. One-time. No, no, no. In this way, as now, so many and so many days before the elections you are coming, but no amendment was even in minimum sums like then another half million, 500 million tolars willing to provide the most affected and gradually raising these funds to the rest of the school diet. That is why we understand this superstandard of this law, which logically has all good intentions, but at the same time the extreme egoism that politics takes just before the elections, and which does not look at the consequences that then happen to the state, to future governments or to anyone else. Therefore, for example, the solutions are so incomplete that even here, Members do not understand them through the amendment and you will have to explain how this implementation will take place. In the last debate, Mr Rudi Veršnik, on this subject, said he, by the way, we will not disappoint the electorate and we will not leave such a mess as the previous governments have left behind. True, voters will not be disappointed with the award just before the hot meal, for which no money is provided. They'll get more than they've been promised. The hot meal is certainly among them and as to what kind of destruction has taken place in the budget in previous governments, let me remind you that the previous governments in the electoral year have thus frozen the adoption of such laws, which would come with great financial consequences. Because of this, not only because of this, not only because we were before entering the euro area, but also because we would not leave the destruction and responsibility of other governments. While they like whether they are candy or Santa Claus, whatever the case, these kind of moves are now plentiful to such limits that I don't know what will happen to the budget that will suddenly run out of 600 million euros to recover the damage that happened in World War II. Or introductions such as vinjets, which are also so popular, no matter what Dars' debt will be. Or free kindergartens that are supposed to happen so much tomorrow for a certain class of children. Despite the fact that there are no spatial capacities for this and that there are also problems in the municipalities as to how this open hunt will be filled. In short, the drafters of the amendment tell us what is wrong with this superstandard, which happens under the cover of good will, understanding, problems in school. But only partial problems at school. Because we don't ask or answer questions that aren't so popular and populist, let's say why we don't co-finance a school in nature, which is, say, a kind of compulsory part of the school system and the subject. Why not? Why, say, no more validation of school work volumes, while free textbooks are added in such a compromise way, when it means not a set, but a loan. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u77	Mrs. Shirca [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u78	I'm talking about a superstandard. I'm talking about the superstandard of this law that brings [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u79	But with respect to this article, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u80	the financial implications for one very attractive part which does not have the money provided in the budget and which does not even have such an amendment written so as to be understood here, and only then those who will have to implement it in a few months. [[...]] As it were during that period that the elections would take place. We, of course, need clarifications on this superstandard and on the implementation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of this law, it must be made clear and clear that the criteria for the legislative proposals that we have tabled on the one hand by the coalition Members are different. In view of the fact that the law applied to remedy the consequences of asbestos was rejected. On the ground that it does not foresee financial resources in the budget, we can today testify to the fact that we are dealing with a law that has financial implications which does not have funds in the budget and that this law can have a parliamentary procedure, that is to say, a parliamentary procedure. So this is a clear difference in relation to the different laws that proposers have, and this should be said here today at the outset, because such a relationship is very unfair and contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure and defines the will of those who, of course, decide whether the law will go into consideration or not. And of course, here the question is whether asbestos patients are those who do not deserve further treatment in this National Assembly and why it was so. Now, about this amendment. As part of our second hearing on the Committee, we were surprised that the intervention of the Minister on behalf of the Government was such that he said that he did not support the Government's proposal for an amendment in Articles 13 and 14, which referred to the day when certain activities would have to be carried out, so that secondary schools were obliged to establish conditions to ensure a subsidised day meal with the start of the school year 2008-2009. The Government of this amendment did not support the committee; today we expected the Government to base its position on the content of the law at this point, because this content is very much related to the amendment we are talking about in Article 3. Why is he going? Article 3 clearly states that secondary schools must provide all beneficiaries with a daily hot meal of the value of Article 5 of this Law during a study in the appropriate premises of the building in which it operates and in a sufficiently long break. Here we then ask a question on which there was no answer on the committee. Since the law will be enforced after 15 days of adoption, must the Minister prepare the submarital acts in the sixties, and if we calculate that we will arrive just before the school year, of course we are interested in what will be the response to the school’s readiness? On the proposal's part, it was said, we are counting on the professional power to always be the best. I'm asking the Minister here, given that you've asked all schools to answer you, how can they implement such a law, I wonder what the answers were? As a former principal of one of the secondary schools, I know about the situation and differences between individual schools with specific characteristics. But I asked the committee clearly what does that mean in the appropriate space and in a long enough break to organise lessons? What does this mean for the organisation of teaching because this law also has criminal sanctions because we say that two thousand to four thousand euros is fined by a secondary school that does not provide its students with a warm meal in composition, volume and quality and so on. I wonder who will take responsibility if, despite their best wishes, they are, despite their efforts to create all these conditions, to provide space and a long enough rest, if that is not possible. But criminal sanctions with 1. 9. They're not going to make it? So, here are these questions, which the Minister, given that he needs to know the most about the situation in Slovenian secondary education, must guarantee to all secondary schools that there will be no discriminatory treatment of students in order for one to have an approach, the other not according to different conditions. And it will be ensured that everyone will have the opportunity to receive such meals as will be prescribed by the Minister with a sub-law, together with the Minister of Health. You know, this is where the declaration level ends. This is an implementation level, and here again, I stress, we want high school students to have a warm meal. Of course, it is our responsibility to create the conditions for this to be real. So that you can respond to all the concerns that this is not a pre-election gesture, but that this is a real project of this coalition, which took four years, because diatric diet was not the priority of this coalition, because if it were, we would be talking about this law in 2005. This is very important, given that you have already tabled the law within the previous term of office. So you must have been substantially better prepared, but you have come with this law right now. It should be pointed out that in the Liberal Democracy we were aware of this problem that food needs to be given a lot of attention. And we have also done so in a way that we have provided in the budget from year to year a substantial increase in funds for this purpose. It's interesting that the coalition didn't want that. That the Ministry has never supported these amendments. All four years of budgetary consideration, this Government, this Ministry and this coalition have rejected all attempts to increase funds on this item. When we talked about healthy nutrition, we were given members of the opposition of ridicule, talking about what we are talking about. At the same time, in the field of health, we face the problem of obesity, poor movement, and so on. And another thing, unlike this proposal, which we have always advocated in the Liberal Democracy. We advocated what the President of the Government said today on European issues. He talked about the fact that the rich should contribute more to solving the problems that are common. And it was also our thesis - whether we should subsidize food to all equally, to those who have thousands of times more than some, whether it is more meaningful to help the socially weak. This is where we made the balance sheet. Our proposal has always been this, because we need financial resources within the school system in other areas, not just for food, let's see if we can share these funds by also taking into account that the rich will be treated in a way that they can contribute more than those who are socially at risk. Our view has always been that the economic and social differences between citizens and citizens are and let us see if we can arrange this by also incorporating social justice into this system, while at the same time ensuring the conditions for a warm meal for all students and also for all primary schoolchildren where their subsidy increases. There was no clear answer here. And, of course, we expect these answers today, Minister, explicitly from you, to tell us what the situation is in Slovenian secondary schools, so that they can properly carry out all the necessary to ensure that all pupils and students of Slovenian secondary schools have equal treatment with 1.9. This is an important question and an important answer and, of course, we will not put problems on Slovenian secondary schools that will be insurmountable for them. And with us standards and in providing a warm meal, the fundamental question is: Will the quality of a meal that will be prepared within the school's capacity be equivalent to that of an external contractor? For the external contractor will always have an interest in making a profit. And if that is not the case, how are you going to regulate it, Mr. Minister? Because we have faced these problems in real terms, we have actually faced this problem in schools. Because that school that already had the capacity will, of course, be able to contribute to a better meal, perhaps for the same cost. However, that school, which will have an external contractor, will of course raise the question of what will be the earnings or whether the foreign ministry will recognise the higher price. And when we talk about superstandard, the question is, as in the case of a hot meal, what do we mean by default, and will Mr. Minister by his sub-legislative act also prescribe the composition of all meals within the superstandard? This is a fundamental question. For if you speak in accordance with the resolution on the eating habits of secondary school students, if you speak in accordance with the resolution on diet, then of course we expect you to prescribe too much, because if you do not, we will be able to witness in secondary schools to hamburgers in view of the significantly larger part of the unhealthy diet offered. Of course, that would be a step back. And in so doing, all these questions need to be answered thoroughly. Regrettably, both by the proposer and by the government so far, it has not been possible to hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you very much. However, I note that I have warned earlier that there is a general debate on this point, not a debate on this amendment. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I understand. [[...]] Mr. Rudolf Petan. Please. You don't have a replica, Mr. Tanko, you didn't speak. I can't. Then you can check in when I open. Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, members and members of the Government. So this article and this amendment talk about spaces, offers and things like that. I'll try to hold on to this as much as possible. So, this amendment deals with an area that has not yet experienced some serious treatment, and above all not a solution. I think that's something I need to point out. And that's what this marriage is trying to solve. True, some questions are answered and some do not see, do not want to see, or do not want to see the answers. And they are not yet fully prepared to accept such content. These are rooms, and apparently some are also very troubled by the offer. But this does not mean that some are not ready to accept this fact, that we should give us answers for a few more years, do analyses, write various resolutions, philosophy about healthy nutrition, offer, willingness to implement such a project, all in terms of delaying this project. But the most important thing we'd forget is that it's for the students. Last but not least, because of the students it is intended for them, it is most important whether there is any calories in any recipe more or less, it is not important after all. That's what the students will say. And I wonder if any of you who have so many comments and concerns about what this diet is going to be like, have you asked a student or is he interested in writing him a recipe for lunch, or will the minister prescribe it, or will he be the head of the school, or is he going to be a school principal, or maybe a special one, who will be employed at a school that will be dealing with a student diet? I'm sure they don't care at all. They will be interested to receive a warm meal and that one will be as quality as possible, not as today, when some can afford a meal, others will go to a store near school and buy whatever they buy. And the third one goes to one cigarette, which is also lit is warm. You don't care now that students have an organized warm diet. It's true that everything can't be arranged right away. But if we don't start fixing now, then it won't be one year from now. If we start doing things in one year's time, it'll only be settled in two years. That is why this step needs to be taken. This is particularly important because it is a sensitive period for young people, when they also acquire eating habits based on experience. Based on experience. And if he's going to have a proper diet at school, just like they have in primary school, then he'll probably keep these habits. But if that's not the case, if there's an interruption, it's the question. However, I share the opinion of those who say that the school profession is so strong and quality that it will be able to resolve and remedy all the uncertainties that occur in this law that cannot be recorded. Some things cannot be written down and that the conditions of the hot meal schools will be met is for the benefit of the students. I would like some experts who know all about school nutrition to do their best to create conditions, but not to try and find a variety of excuses about how something cannot be done. On the other hand, we need to approach how we can make an effort to do something, not seek excuses, not to do something and how something cannot be done. Anything can be done. That is why I support this whole article, as well as this amendment to this article. Finally, I would say that, given the debate that has been held today, that this is a corrective, serious attitude of the government, if you want coalitions, to our young people, it is said to the students, because this is a serious attempt to improve this area, which has not been regulated so far. That is why I support this amendment to Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor. I had previously overlooked that you were the first to propose, Mr Grims the second. Please. You can call me as a proponent at any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would just point out some things that were open. First of all, I would say that the approach of some opposition parliamentary groups to the problem to social problems is not the same in the regulation of similar matter. When we adopted the Student Nutrition Act in the previous term, we decided to grant student nutrition generally to the status not to the social situation. When we regulate a free school in primary school, we also arranged, I don't know, the part about the textbook fund for all of the same things and we didn't select people by social status. When you go to Ljubljana to buy or when a student goes to buy a ticket for a city bus gets a general status discount and does not get a social status discount. All these things are such as to indicate that there is a need for some area of education to be regulated in another way if we are to achieve the objectives, which is to ensure proper eating habits for all those who enter and who are in the school process either in primary school, in secondary school or in higher education institutions and in colleges. And you were the ones who supported the proposal not to select students by social status, all get the same grant of 2.42 euros for a meal, whether it comes from Ljubljana or from rural areas or from a director's son or a worker's son. And I see absolutely no valid reason for this area of diaphragm to be regulated in any other way. By the way, even when the Law on the Subsidisation of Student and Student Diet was adopted, we proposed an analogous solution in the previous term, that even in that law, even the student diet, you were against, and in the same way as the students. And even now, as we repeat this issue for the third or fourth time, we propose the same systemic approach as it has been taken into account in those or those categories that you have adopted in your mandate, nothing else, and I also think that there is no need for this to be handled differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Article 3 of the amendment to this law, some fellow Members either don't understand it or you don't understand it or it's simply some thing that the Government, the coalition proposes somehow is not acceptable to you at the time in which we are. I am surprised, and I would say here congratulations to Vladina also to the proponents of this law, that we have seen in this Slovenia that the elementary school had this arranged, and also the students, but not the students. And thank God that we have also been able to determine with this amendment that we will try to arrange this diet in the school building. It's very important, in the school building, that students don't go anywhere else or go back to where they are today. And that's exactly what the amendment to this article is talking about. What is superstandard - I imagine the superstandard is that 2.42 euros is what the state will give. But if the group or class decides to do more than that, then they'll have to pay the extra as much as they want. Well, if we have the same model in students, it's a good thing it's the same in students. Here to share the social criteria of our student, I think it would be unnecessary, unjustifiable and also, after all, they are all the same. As for the case, I have a certain point of view, and I hope that the Ministry has made a good study of the possibilities of Slovenian secondary schools to be able to do so at the time of the adoption of the law by 1 September, which is relatively little time, in between July and August, we know that school holidays are. And it will probably be a little more difficult to provide, technically, basic conditions so that, at the start of the school year, we can apply this issue in the next school year in all secondary schools in Slovenia. Whether it is possible or not, we leave it to others. This will not burden Members with burden, thus burdening the Ministry, the management of schools. It is likely that, after the adoption of the law to be adopted by the National Assembly, I believe that, with a large majority, it will have to be approached immediately to implement this project. But it is true that time is very short, but here I deeply agree with you, especially with my colleague, Mr Germić, who, as an experienced director, has probably already tried this in his team and has quite a bit of experience with this. As far as resources are concerned. Whether this is such a big problem for us Members, from where the government will be, the minister will provide this money - one Patria less, and the money will be enough for this matter. Simple logic. The balance is in progress, in preparation. I'm sure the will is very great. But that some of you are dealing with resources, with the wrong time, and you're not interested in the content that much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the high school students are also ours, and I will say that you do not burden yourself with this today when we adopt this law. The Ministry and Government will certainly provide these resources through the rebalancing, in some way, for the next school year to be provided for Slovenian pupils and students. Of course, I have doubts that it was never the right time for some to adopt this law, because it is because it is likely that some people are disturbed that we have not done it before, but we have not remembered or remembered, I don't know. I guess it's a little late, but it's never too late. Support him, including this amendment and this law, and the Slovenian students will surely thank you for finally getting that food, because for so many years they have been unjustifiably neglected against students and primary schoolchildren. And I believe that also colleague Germič supports this, because he is certainly still a schoolboy with his soul and knows that the Slovenian student has been deprived here. And also with your votes for the adoption of this law, students will receive adequate school meals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I am reopening applications for discussion on this amendment. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Well, as far as equal treatment is concerned, just adoption of the Kindergarten Act is a great example of how all children are treated equally, the first child or the only child is not treated the same as the second or third one, but, this is just one small thing. As far as feasibility is concerned, the problem is that those who do not do so will be sanctioned. I don't have any problems, and you didn't hear me say you'd object to the fact that the subsidy is general. What bothers me is that the superstandard will be tied to demand, and I argue that this is precisely why it is not possible to predict that the school will receive reimbursements after actually prepared and offered meals, because the applicants even imagine that students will go to lunch or lunch rather than if they are not offered. It is also true that today, due to a denser network of secondary schools, school transport burdens have also been reduced and that this also affects time spent in primary school as well as in secondary school. Where there will be a different offer of a warm meal, either as a lunch or as a lunch, it may be possible for a high school worker who has a longer one, even in the organization of some complications, but it is said to be experts who will be able to do everything. What this will mean for social differentiation is another problem. How much trouble does anyone have in remembering or not remembering? Dear colleague Janc, I am very pleased to hear that we will give something to the youth and not buy weapons. When we had to look for the resources from where we were proposing the amendments, and we covered the weapons, there were some of those, and the magnetograms say that we are non-state-efficient candidates for such amendments. That's the problem. What's allowed to one another is not, that's what this is about. And that is why it is necessary to find a financial source and therefore the Minister of the Beast has not supported the amendment to Article 14. Because that moment he couldn't say he had the money in his budget for it. It's a problem. And now he doesn't have it and he won't have it until after the rebalancing, but the Prime Minister of the Government has already said that the money for the student diet will be covered by the military budget. Believe me, I don't have any problems, it's not a prestigious question either. It is only a question of whether the law is feasible and whether it brings solutions that can be said to be the best at this point and whether it was not possible to do so and to adopt the law in 2005 and to put it into effect at a time that would allow schools to prepare or prepare all of this within one year. Because no one has ever said who will cover those expenses, the material costs that schools will have with the preparation of areas for distribution of a warm meal. And it's not true that primary school kids would have a free hot meal. The primary school only has one meal a day. Anyone who thinks that he will start developing eating habits in young people only in high school is very wrong. Since this is already delayed and go watch the analysis of how schools, primary schools follow the recommendations on healthy diet. In the analysis carried out, you will not find one school that will fully comply with all the recommendations on healthy nutrition. She's not here. That's what's supposed to happen with the miracle stick. You won't be able to force everyone. The school will have to offer who will sign up for this, but there will be a social differentiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I would remind you once again that we are talking about the amendment to Article 3. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u92	Sometimes it's really hard for you to understand our respected opposition. To see how it is possible for such a positive thing as a warm meal to be given to high school students, to say so many bad, sharp words, to trigger such a negative charge. I took another look at that amendment myself. There could be some mistake in it, but the amendment is perfectly fine. Provides all children, under the same conditions, in the same way a meal of warm food every day, expected within the school. It also provides, of course, an exception to the fact that, in line with the demand, a school decides and, in accordance with its decision, introduces an even better solution. So it's super standard. In short, the amendment is perfectly fine, is consistent, and is also consistent with what you have actually stated to those who have said bad words that this solution should be. That's what it means to get back to the beginning. Sometimes it is difficult to understand our opposition, but today I can understand it very much, in fact. For in truth these sharp words are permissive only the continuation of their same debate at the previous item of the agenda, only with other expressions. In fact, those who were previously choked out of envy because this very government has the honour of leading Slovenia or representing Slovenia in leading the European Union are now suffocating. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u93	Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u94	because it is obviously this coalition that will establish a warm meal for high school students. [[...]] If the opposition "fonsch" were to burn, Slovenia would have the perfect organic export article.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u96	Let's go back to the amendment. Now that it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u98	When that fire burned. [[...]] I argue that the second paragraph, which tries to make exceptions to those who can get 2 and so many euros for a hot meal, is that those who want something else can do something more, can do something else - it probably has no financial implications, at least we haven't heard, it's not clear how much more you're going to demand in the balance, let's say because it's going to be different. And even this year, given that you don't even know how much of this is going to happen, because the entries are probably already passed with those forms that could detect so many populations that would require otherwise. Here, at that implementation level, there are so many questions that probably schools will be poor again, as are the poor already when the principals hire lawyers to answer your letters and circuits, how to sue their own teachers. Actually, you probably don't have any data on how many schools are ready for this. Yes, you have spatial assurances, but if you hurry up, you have a lot of apologies, on the other hand - I'm probably not an advocate of the fact that there must be an absolute kitchen in the building where the education is being conducted. Perhaps some space, a kindergarten, along with which these costs for adaptations would be provided for spaces that are not now available. It is also unclear what the real long breaks are, how the school rules are already arranged and so on. But this will be the area that would upset you, how to do it, and when you're addressed, not more than Minister Beast, I think, as Minister of Bears or Deer, driving Santa's dream, full of gifts. No, Minister, the fox probably won't tell you. But still, it would be wise to know. However, something would be good if we were to engage in a discussion when we are talking about different possibilities of a hot meal than the options that some schools will wish on the basis of demand for superstandard preferences. Then why not be more consistent and only intelligent? While we know that the Public Procurement Act speaks of the need to give priority in ordering, I will say this, in the notes, to a healthy diet or how it is defined. Why don't we write here: The priority of awarding and obtaining food orders is: biofarms, those who produce healthy food; it is forbidden, this so-called hot meal to offer through "fast-food" and through machines that also warm up a quick matter and so on. Why don't we go into this consistently? But consistency is probably the result of some analysis, some reflection. I understand you're getting a little bored with listening, but now you're listening to us, and then you'll be upset by the principals, the ones who, of course, hope when they don't have, maybe, the right orientations and compasses how to do it. Are we going to get involved in these questions?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I'll say it's not far from envy to stupidity. Both the first and the second have a blurred mind or a dimly clear or better - minded thinking. And that is within this law, hand to heart, or better to do, so much so that I hope that people do not follow us on television when they watch Parliament's broadcast. You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the desire of all of us, opposition and coalitions, to work for the welfare of children, to take care of their healthy development, for a healthy lifestyle, is undoubtedly a very important healthy diet here. But I wanted to get an answer from the competent minister in the first debate. For the law of which the first to be signed is the coalition Member, Mr Jože Tanko, is fully following the transfer of responsibility to certain sub-legislative acts prepared by the Minister. And even within the framework of Article 3, to which the amendment has been tabled, it is only said that everything else: implementation, rules of the game and so on, is prepared by the competent minister. If the law comes into force in April, perhaps as early as March or April, yes, on the 15th day following the publication of the Official Journal, the minister, who today has no answers to the key questions, will have little time to prepare the substantive sub-laws, struggles. So much less time will have schools that will train their premises and everything else to implement the law, but it is not my problem at heart, but it is part of my responsibility as Members of the National Assembly to try to engage constructively and properly in the laws that are, I believe, thought or written for some good purpose. Yeah, well, we're going to give the students a way to get to a healthy, doodling meal. But I don't know what a healthy meal is. We do not know who, or how, we still do not know who, or how, will carry out what is written in the laws or will be recorded in some of the regulations of the law. Minister, can you answer the key questions of this law that are unclear? Only this, at least I, on behalf of the Lip Group of Members, want to know in what way and how the law will be implemented in practice. And when we've heard so much and so much nonsense from, I don't know, one less Patrie that we can get this marriage to life. Two, three Patries less, maybe some denationalizing law less, and we'll solve a lot of social problems in our country if we're already in this pathetic state. But I thought we were trying to talk seriously about one simple law, a law that talks about student diet, or how all students in our country will come to a healthier way of eating. The law is certainly, I believe, largely well-intentioned, even though the omen has pre-election moves. But, no matter what, the law is well-intentioned, and as such I will undoubtedly support it, I admit, but I would still like to get answers to important questions. I will remind the president of the working body, who also had a lot today, I will say a blue speech, a lesson speech. When we adopted a law at one of the previous meetings of the mother's working body that applied to the one, I'll say, an anti-pedophil article, that we'll get along better.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u101	Mrs. Žgeiner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u102	Allow me, Mr President, and others have spoken about other things, but I would just like to point out that the proposal for a proposal under this law is incorrect. That law fell, despite the amendments being tabled, the correction to the mother's working body fell because the president had so decided. Today we have a law that has been tabled by the government coalition, which has been corrected in all the articles, in all the articles corrected, but was nevertheless suitable for further consideration. You know, that's the duality of the government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u103	I can remind you again. Please stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u104	Of course, I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. I've given my opinion, my point of view. I would also like answers. I still have time, Mr. Chairman. I would really like to get the answers to the questions I have asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u105	I'm not going to remind you for the third time, but I'm going to stop you. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u107	Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u108	Dear Vice President. I would warn you, given that this amendment is very linked, given that it talks about organisation, school nutrition, including the rest of the law, it is good that you are tolerant of this debate. On a procedural basis, however, I remind you that earlier, because you want to take our word, you have warned us all the time when we are talking about this subject, but you have previously given your word to Mr Tank as a proposaler, and we do not know that the applicant has a word at all. And you could sign up for the word in all circles, and that's why it seems right for me to let us talk, so you can alert us to some things if we go too far. But earlier you made a mistake and gave your word to someone who was not even supposed to get it at that time, given the application of who was reported to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I don't think I made a mistake when I gave my word to Mr. Tank. That's the first one. Another time. I warned you about the amendment and many of you have spoken and debated, but, as I have been following, it was somehow all about this amendment. However, the paedophile law is not related to this amendment, so I warned the MP twice and then I broke it off. We continue the debate. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. When I listen to what I can't believe is that Members who always say how much poverty there is in Slovenia, how many children are hungry, how many are going to sleep hungry at night, that they can doubt such a law. And I just took a breath when she said that even though she was bad, she would support this marriage. Well, at least that's what she's changed. Now I am going to Article 3 or to the amendment to Article 3. This amendment follows the requirements of New Slovenia, where we said that a warm meal must be organised at school and at the time of teaching. We could not agree that we would receive students’ vouchers and then spend these vouchers in innhouses this afternoon and could cause more bad behavior than good. That's why we support him. The amendment also says that a warm meal should be provided in this value, and whoever wants a superstandard meal will pay for it. But all the hungry, average children will be satisfied with a warm meal that will be financed at 2.42 euros and will be for all children, whether rich or poor, what social status they have. Above all, they will have the opportunity to eat at school. There's so much controversy about how schools will provide these warm meals if they don't have room. We should provide these facilities by now or provide at least one meal. And it's very sad for all those officials, for all those directors who didn't allow it. Since the children are now seven, eight hours in school, and spending more time at home, it is sad that we have such teachers, that they have not seen that a child needs a regular diet at that time. That is why I think that this law is good and that schools that did not meet this condition will adapt to it, so we will also support it in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You really don't need so many hot words. The law is basically good and needs to be accepted, which we will eventually all be able to do in this room. And that's right. It is also a matter of regulating this area of diaphragm. However, under Article 3, we are presidents, let me be allowed to speak a little wider, but in the context of Mr Tanko also talked about student diet, Mr Germič about asbestos, Mr Grims about the European Union, let me be allowed to talk about food, food in education. Look, I think with regard to Article 3, it's good to introduce subsidised food, but it's kind of incomprehensible if we have something subsidised to introduce superstandard on subsidised food. A super standard can be paid just as it is paid, but we will also confirm it. I guarantee it. We'll confirm this amendment, too, because it's good. In fact, it defines something that's abnormal, but good. As for the law itself, at the very presentation of the Group's position, we felt in the Slovenian National Party that you were leaving a large gap, a lot of gaps that you did not want to fill. And Mr Tanko then spoke of the fact that, when they proposed in the opposition at the time that the diatric diet would be regulated along with the regulation of student diet, which is also well arranged today, somehow offered a compromise solution at the time, their position was not heard. We also offer you today to arrange a basic school diet when regulating a student’s diet, of course. And we've put this law in the Slovenian National Party Group's procedure and, don't interrupt me, respected presidents, I see you've turned on the microphone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u113	I lit my light.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u114	At the time, on 1 February, when we had a debate, we called on the government to prepare this law, but somehow it did not want to, and we waited for quite some time, even after the deadline, to give a written initiative, even to prepare this law, the minister somehow did not hear this ear. And since we filed this marriage, then they wrote an answer, quickly on the back day, dated it with the day forward, and somehow Pilately washed their hands and stated in the reply as follows. In their view, therefore, the Minister considers primary school diet to be exemplary because they are already paying the chef. Interestingly, they pay the chef, 400 students in primary school are paid and paid by the Ministry. But look at the kind of injustice that happens to these families. If the school's world has to decide whether or not the child is poor enough to have a meal subsidised and also lunch, and if we find that these subsidies are just a little over 30%, we say that we have modelly arranged this diet because we have this restaurant for children in schools and because we pay the chef, then we can be ashamed of ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. These are the children who are most in need of this diet. And if you have already gone at the end of this term to regulate the subsidisation of the student diet, because this is a good thing because we transferred this right to the beginning of the electoral year or to the next financial year, we now see that this can actually happen in the next school year, which is encouraging. But it could be right now if we wanted to. Let's get this much sanity together, and let's give this 79 million euros, and let's say, with the new school year, we also have 100% child nutrition subsidies in primary education that they need the most. Healthy diet is what these kids need most because they're in the process of growing up. These kids have no election rights, you get nothing, but some parent can vote for you. True, it is not as appealing as you think, but perhaps it would be possible to be a little honest in the soul and in the heart. Look, we said at that time that if we sum up this proposal that everything you wrote down is actually acceptable, of course, we upgraded this law a little bit more with these amendments, and then we also pointed out that we have children in primary education who are in a discriminatory position. To paint this painting a little differently, many of you are mayors. I have consulted with a congregation that is not very rich, and my colleague, Mr Bogdan Barovic, is also with me. It is also a shame that if the municipality does not have money for the subsidy, this percentage may be even lower, although the need to subsidize primary school nutrition in the municipality is large and vice versa. If we have a rich congregation that has a good, healthy budget, the municipality, which has more money, can spend most of the money on subsidising primary school meals, because we know that this is all on the back of the municipalities. What's going on? Twice the discrimination of these children, rich municipalities can cover over 40 to 50% of these subsidies. Those who are poor do not come up to 30%, so much the need for us to adopt this law. I hope, today I have been informed that this has gone into normal procedure, that we will be so eloquent, so kind and so reasonable even when we have this law before us. The incentive doesn't at all give me the answer of a minister who is a Skopje, who is average, and in some ways quite non-chalant and I do not believe, Mr Minister, that there will be no money for 4,200 students if we are already so generous. Once again, it is right and we will support the subsidisation of the student diet in the Slovenian National Party. However, have the sense and good will to do so in the primary school system. I hope so much from my side that one of my colleagues will come forward and say something like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. However, I have to say again, I think I am the third person to say that the law does not formally meet the business conditions for consideration because it does not define the financial consequences nor does it have the budgetary resources provided. That's bad, and it's not good. But you say it won't be a problem that one Patricia is less and everything will be fine - write it in here. The President of the National Assembly will not be pleased, and I will. Just write it down and I won't be giving these objections anymore, I won't have any problems. Now that I am going to this amendment, Mr President, I would say because of the context, because I have some comments on the amendment, I would say in particular that the diaspora diet needs to be regulated. From this point of view, and therefore, I support the law or only the idea and fundamental direction of the law. That's good, and that's good. That's okay with it. That this law was written as a law that is in pre-election time and has pre-election connotation, that is clear to everyone. For this law promised a warm meal, and this promise was passed on to time after the election when another, such or different government would take place, and this is a typical pre-election law. He's not the first of this coalition, and we believe he won't be the last. When we warned them, fellows, we said, "Listen, gentlemen. This warm meal for the students will cool down until this law comes into force." However, they have found that if they are already going to do so, and I agree that the law should enter into force with 1. 9. 2008 I also "applause" it is, and it is, and this law will still be pre-election, but at least some of these elections will have something. If not the others, at least the students and at least I agree. So I don't have a problem here either. But they had problems, of course, the principals. Colleagues said, Mr. Petan, Mrs. Uhanova: "Anything can be done if it is willed." It's volunteerism. There's nothing you can do. If there is no wall, if there is no room, it cannot be made within fourteen days or within a few months. You can't do everything at once. Volunteerism in politics is very bad, and this law has been suppressed by a drink in the sense that it has now passed on to the ministry. The Minister will then be busy with the elections, it is said that he will be overtaken by the governors and there will be problems. There'll be trouble. That is why I think that if we want to implement it, this law should have an additional provision, which would simply say that when it is not possible to regulate food in schools, there should be an additional possibility to regulate it elsewhere. Yeah, I don't know, that's all you're focused on. In addition, as was said - you did not give any conditions as to how it will be arranged: Will they eat after, I don't know, rooms for wardrobe or anywhere else and so on. These things aren't arranged. You just passed this story on to the principals. And you don't care about the principals, and that's not good. I think we should ensure greater flexibility here, even in my opinion, and this debate was not, even the possibility of introducing vouchers for certain categories. Even that. And that's not in there. Because you will face great problems and you have brought these problems to other people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Seven more debaters. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I waited a little while to see whether Mr. Minister of Government had spoken. I'm sorry, it looks like we're not gonna be able to see this. For perhaps our discussions could be different in the second, third round, but unfortunately, that is why we are discussing Members. There is an opportunity for that school that cannot ensure that it organises this in its facilities until 2011, 2012 somewhere outside. But to this amendment, this is an essential intervention in the organization of teaching. And here, Mr. Minister, I ask again: What are the views of schools so that they can provide this meal in the appropriate space and in a sufficiently long break? I have pointed out on the Committee that some schools, which are not in the strict centres themselves, are also linked to means of transport. And only a change in the train transport regime required, for 7 minutes the departure of one train, a year and a half waiting. And if this cannot be arranged, such meals and such concepts cannot, of course, be realized. Ask yourself a question. My colleague Grimes said, "This marriage brings all children a warm meal under the same conditions." I ask the Government and the proponents: Is this true - a warm meal for all children under the same conditions. We want an answer. Here tell this answer to all students, to all parents and to all those who will work in these schools, and of course to us, so that we can properly support an idea that I believe is not a Member or a Member who would oppose it. And since my colleague Tanko said that we saved one part of the population with one law, that we are doing this for the other part today, that we still have a third part job, that is, a primary school that we don't handle. Then why don't we do what we've discussed here today, including this segment. We have proposed this solution to reach out to both the primary and secondary population in order to ensure that at least 30% of the population is subsidised, at least if there are more resources, but we can ensure that everyone, both in primary school and in secondary school, is subsidised. Then why do you not accept this proposal, in this concern and desire to settle this area? If we propose at least 30% and have more resources on real terms, let's say we arrange both primary and secondary education. Why, then, if, when we adopted the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, we missed it - and I agree that we did not think well enough about solutions for this population at the time - why not make these moves today? Of course, I expect a clear answer - a warm meal for all students under the same conditions. Today we cannot accept the thesis that you are defending by the proponents. The school’s course will eliminate any confusion that this law brings, or things that we cannot write down. So today we know and today the proposer knows that this law brings confusion. The responsibility of the government is then placed here, which today must respond to this ambiguity, or proposalr, to tell us what these ambiguities are. We're warning them, but you're saying we're warning on the wrong side. However, we remind you of the uncertainties that you are talking about. Of course, you do not want to listen to us, so there are no answers. Nevertheless, I hope that we will get these answers by the end of the day, so that in the coming rounds we may be able to correct our discussions according to the government's explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u119	Mr. Secretary, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. If you'll excuse me, Mr Germich, I'd like to answer your colleagues. The first question was: What are the financial consequences of the law? The amendment also speaks of superstandards, it is not financially defined. Of course not. This amendment expects those who want to pay more by themselves or their parents. A close assessment of the financial implications is clear. About €43 million will cost this service note every year's budget. This year, however, we would need 12 million euros by the end of the year. What about the autonomy of schools, if everything is prescribed by the minister, was one of the questions. The Minister only prescribes quality, scope and ingredients, setting some general standards, together with the Ministry of Health. So the school minister will not set all these standards himself, because he is not responsible for this, but together with the Ministry of Health we will set slightly more precise professionally supported parameters. The next question was; Have we done a thorough analysis, a recording of the situation on the ground? We have done a survey, or questionnaire, for all high school officials, who are extremely precise. And we got a real database that tells us what the situation is on the ground. We've stressed that relationship a number of times. For the first time, when the debate was here, we thought how much percentage of schools have the chance, how many of them there is no possibility, not for cooking or for distribution. And these are very few, less than 15%. And he's got about two thirds of the school. You can have the kitchen or the distribution room, respectively. However, it is necessary to say that we have set this standard, this transitional period until 2011, 2012, in which schools will provide all of this necessary logistics and the necessary infrastructure, because it does not work. Until then, they will exercise this right to excuse students in different ways, depending on their options. But once again, even in Scandinavian countries, lunch is in the classrooms where they learn. Thus, although we have extremely demanding standards in Slovenia, including HASAP, the most demanding standards in the field of nutrition for schoolchildren, this is extremely difficult. Those who are mayors know well how expensive the kitchens are, how strong and tense the rules of the game we have to make the quality, quality of food excellent and also food safe. This will remain the case in the future, but during this transitional period, schools will have to ensure, in accordance with their options and conditions, this right of students to whom they will come under this law proposed by the Coalition in the National Assembly. So Article 13 speaks of this transitional period, and Mr Germić and Mr Gantar. It's a social component. The social component is included, it was included in food subsidies both in primary and secondary education. If you remember, he's formerly a friend, and now he's not here, asking questions and saying that the state only pays chefs for four hundred students. No, we also provide food subsidies, and only in primary school there are over 36% of the students who receive this aid with a subsidy. So the primary school has a relatively solid diet, including healthy diet, this instant compared to high school. On the spot we have kitchens and splitters and, of course, the problem is much smaller there than in high school cases. Here, too, we spent about five million euros a year on such social transfers, on student food subsidies, but given that experts have calculated that 2.42 euros is enough for a hot meal, no extra money from the budget will be needed. This means that this subsidy will be practical enough for all students. Even if everyone gets the same thing, it's one social adjustment. Superstandard is definitely not a hamburger, we'll set the rules here. If we were to act irresponsiblely and seek an easier way to implement this, we would probably write a model that is typical of student nutrition and introduce, I don't know vouchers, vouchers or whatever, and give students the opportunity to choose where they want. We wanted to ensure a healthy diet through this law. Not only do some students get something, but they take advantage of what they get by eating quality and healthy. It is true that this is an additional effort for schools, as well as for administrators, as well as teachers and assistants, all those who will prepare changes in schedules that will be organized or involved in any way. But if we want a good school, it takes a lot of effort. Even when you're teaching. Today, the teacher is much more involved in only teaching work. He is practically responsible for the fate of each student and student individually. There is no more time when the teacher recanted his own and left the matter that he was going his way forward. On the contrary. But each student is not demagogic, he is at the center, every student, each has some special needs and interests, and the teacher has to listen to all of this. The modern approach is much more difficult for teachers than it once was for the one who runs and manages school, with the school system, is much more demanding, complex than it used to be. In short, it is not unusual for school principals and school management to have a little more to do with it than ever before. I do not see any major problems, like some Members of Parliament, in particular Ambassador Tavšev, who wonders how the law will even be enforced in practice. It's going to happen gradually. Different, given the circumstances, in different ways. But it's important that the students get what this marriage will give them. I expected the opposition to a government, not a government proposal, a coalition proposal to be less. I really expected you all to identify yourself with this law that actually gives something, but not to oppose it. I would rather expect a constructive debate to help us resolve a dilemma. But there weren't any. If there is another specific question, and the question needs to be asked correctly, of course, we are here to answer it. And maybe the proponents aren't just us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Just a few sentences, given that the colleagues are still registered. First of all, I would like to draw attention to technology or the opposition's approach to this law. On the one hand, the unanimous support announced in advance without a vote against, on the other hand, you say that marriage is weak, incomplete, inconsistent. Infinite scheming. If the marriage is so bad, you can have a calm conscience to vote against. And because you also denied the quality of the law, because all the articles were amended. We don't have an agenda. If the comments were good, we took them into account. We could put an amendment on everything that's bad, and we could put it in, and we could have a little fun with these amendments. Secondly, I also need to correct my colleague Gantar's statement. It is good that those who discuss the law, the principles, the content, the financial consequences, at least read the text. The financial consequences of the text state exactly how much financial consequences the law brings. It still says, the first reading text still says. And as far as the submarital acts are concerned, nothing out of the ordinary. I know there's no way in this law to prescribe a defense for all days. When will the risotto be, etc. That's not possible. This should be regulated in a different way, by means of regulations, that the compositions of the menu should be made by others. And the answer to the question: When is the best time for such a marriage? I think the best time is over, and now we've come at an extreme time to solve these things. The best time and best opportunity was when the problem was identified, soon after World War II. The next time we suggested that the matter be complemented with the student diet law, then we went because it didn't go through, we went with the student diet law separately. It wasn't a good time either. And now we've come to this extreme time. Now, at last, you have come to realize that marriage must be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Kumer. Mrs. Jeraeva. I'd like to warn you again. Amendment to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you. However, there is something to be said about this, colleague Gantar says that it is a typical pre-election text or election law. The text is more or less the same as it was three years ago, and a few years ago, it was not confirmed. And as my colleague has said before me, time is obviously never right and we never propose at the legal time what we should propose. We have proposed a law to resolve the system's issue. Up until now, high schools have been able to decide for themselves whether to regulate or not to provide food for students. And of course, if you don't have to or if something's not mandatory, you will or won't. I'd rather not. And sometimes the students had a chance to eat at school, and somewhere else they didn't, and they found themselves in their own way. We all find that they usually buy sandwiches in nearby restaurants or shops and get a snack. And that is why it seems important for us to solve the problem for everyone, that is, for over 90,000 students in Slovenia and that the matter will no longer be left to schools alone, but a system will be set up that will apply to all. The new law requires secondary schools to arrange premises and provide conditions for them to be able to carry out their diet. After all the time we discussed the law and when we talked about whether schools have conditions or do not have them, so whether they have suitable premises, data was exposed indicating that 73% of schools have suitable lunch space and only 27% have not. Forty percent of schools have their own kitchen to prepare hot meals, 42% have a kitchen where they bring hot meals and distribute them. Central cuisine, where hot meals are prepared and transported to different locations, has 4% of schools and 16 secondary schools or 12% have no kitchen. So it's probably not going to be such a problem for 16 schools to settle this and provide extra space, so it's also going to take a while to sort this out. This will require some effort from the school authorities. My friend Gantar says we're putting everything on the board. See, if 124 high school administrators can't do this, then I wonder how the directors of 500 or more can do this, 700 primary schools that obviously can manage their meals can adjust their holidays and all the other things can be organised, and what primary schools are with more schoolchildren than high schoolers. As set out in the standards for the nutrition of the youngest children in kindergartens, what should meals be like, how much fruit, how much must they contain, will be similarly prepared for this population, i.e. for the secondary school population, for the pupils. And the fact that we're only going to introduce something, but it's not going to be taken care of to actually be a healthy diet, is probably a little premature. By providing both the ministry and all other institutions that are already involved with this, the Institute for Health Protection, which has carried out research in this area, and are willing to cooperate in actually setting some standards that will contribute to better nutrition and make an important step towards a healthier diet for our young people. And it's no longer about prejudging and determining that it's not gonna be what we need. The proponents think the law is good. We are therefore also pleased that the other parliamentary groups are also forecasting support. It is right to open up the dilemmas that may be, but perhaps there is no point in opening the dilemmas that are not really there, and we are artificially opening them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. My friend Tanko went out, and I was going to show him that those problems were 40 years ago, and I could give him a book to read. I happen to have this book here for other reasons. Of course, I am not opposed to these pre-election mints, as they say, because I expect that school is not free, but maybe some time food will be free for students, students and students, if not today, September, maybe five years from now. We have heard about these subsidies several times in the debate today. I'm a little nervous about that word. The Ministry subsidizes something, and the municipalities subsidize something, and we subsidize our parents. Then where do all these strong subsidies go if we always talk about there being some shortages if we are so subsidized by this diet. So just for the intermediation, we're not going to argue about this - who pays the chef in primary school? Even parents who pay the bill pay the cook, as well as the congregation, someone else. I want to tell the minister who said earlier that he didn't make some big commitments with this law. I will point to the two articles that are set out in this bill. This is the second where you are responsible for the composition, size and quality of the daily meal, so it is written in. And Article 11 for supervision at school, with regard to the intended economic and so on spending of this same money, you are also responsible. And that's exactly where my question, which is related to this amendment, is going. This is not only about this share of the subsidy money of this EUR 40, 50 million, but it is my responsibility that the conditions for this will be created so that this subsidy can be used up in school. Who will be responsible for making investments in all secondary schools? So far, only 27 regular schools in Slovenia have these conditions, if I have read correctly that it has its own kitchens. I'm asking if it's all going to be on some "catterings" and we're going to be driving this "cattering" in time with the Patrias to school or they're really going to have all the students, that's over 100,000, under the same conditions, access to the use of this subsidy for this school diet, and here it's the Ministry's responsibility, and in this law, it's not, and they're going to argue in the municipalities, schools and so on, which quotas are going to take this money to make it happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Even if this marriage is very populist, even if it is a major pre-election matter, I will gladly support it, for it brings one very important and good news. It brings, regulates the diet of students who to date do not have an orderly, young people in those most sensitive years, when it is most important that their diet is orderly, appropriate to their development and age. If this law is going to settle this, I think it's going to do a lot, and we're either in front of the elections or we're in elections. I don't make such a big deal about how a marriage can be made. I know that, in many secondary schools, the principals have been working so far to enable students, wherever possible, to say adequate nutrition, and I am sure that we have good and quality managers in Slovenian secondary schools, who will also be required by this law to arrange suitable places for distribution and cooking to meet these requirements in due course. I will support this amendment, because I am very committed to allowing the students in school spaces so that they do not have to leave school. Because we know it brings too many negative things. At least a lot of schools have emergency conditions so they can get over it. But all schools have, I say, a chance to arrange fast food distribution at least. So you're doing too much worrying about it - I think - you don't have to. Previously, - I think - some have also discussed whether quality nutrition will be provided. It's a healthy diet. In this regard, I also trust the principals and the staff responsible for this to be healthy and good nutrition in secondary schools. However, we have also settled this by law not long ago also with the Public Procurement Act, where we have specific provisions, including regarding public institutions. I have to say, I can't wait for this law to come into force. I have two high school girls. This week, except Monday, when it was Easter Monday, every morning at half past seven two pieces of bread, special salami, a little dry salami, a little cheese. And every day this food is enjoyed by a high school girl. I don't think it's good that this isn't healthy. That once a week food like this would be enough. I'm happy in the fall when I don't have to do this anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unlikely, even though it's interesting to listen, I'd like to get back to the point. We are now talking about the amendment to Article 3. The amendment to Article 3 is perfectly clear in the first sentence. There's no doubt that we wouldn't accept it, no one. However, if we look at the second sentence of this amendment, which says: 'the secondary school can also provide a warm meal of value exceeding the value referred to in Article 5, on the basis of the demand of the students'. Let's be so honest with each other. Don't belong in this marriage today, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about the updated proposal for a law on the subsidisation of student diet. We are not talking about the proposal of the Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Nutrition and Subsidisation of Superstandards. That's it. That's an essential difference. We can't put a super standard in the Subsidisation Act and there's nothing wrong with it. This second sentence, which I believe is controversial, is judged by colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, because we have read it in such a way and article and amendment is withdrawn. Because, again, I am stressing, we are talking about subsidising superstandards rather than student diets. And I think it would be good to open the debate on the amendments to Article 7. The ones you read, you know why I say that. Article 7 states that the last sentence of Article shall be deleted. However, the explanation is that the amendment is linked to the amendment to Article 3. I'm sorry. That's not true either. It is not true if we read the last sentence of Article 7: "Differents who are entitled to or are entitled to financial social assistance under social protection rules are entitled to such assistance by their parents or guardians, the difference to the full value of the daily warm meal, based on the request of the secondary schools referred to in Article 4 of this Act, shall also be financed from the State budget." The dictatorship of this paragraph is fully understandable and clear. I don't know why I should be deleted by explaining that this is related to Article 3. That second paragraph of Article 3 has absolutely nothing to do with this sentence that I have read, which is to be deleted as proposed by the amendment. I don't know why it should be deleted, because it's perfectly clear. It's a subsidy. It is about helping those who are not actually able to pay or who are actually able to arrange or provide food for their students. Let's be correct. Consider two amendments to two articles that we are talking about and that we are talking about. Don't talk all the time and all. Please explain to us why the second sentence of Article 7 is to be deleted by reasoning that it is related to Article 3. And once again, I say that the second sentence of the amendment to Article 3 does not belong in the proposal of the Law on the Subsidisation of the Student Diet. And there are purely simple claims. A purely ordinary man understands that. Because if we adopt this second sentence, we will subsidise the superstandard in Article 3. That's not it. Some Members have been warned about this. Well, quite fair and correct, as my esteemed colleague, Mr Friend, has said, we will all end up supporting this law. But it is true that these two amendments would rather be corrected and designed in a way that is realistic and actually beneficial to all. And my colleagues and I will be happy to continue listening. I would really like to ask that we stick to these two amendments to these two articles. And I'd be happy to clear them up. Well, if the Minister is going to explain to me right now, my colleagues and my colleagues in the Ministry that I don't always have the right to be right, okay. But I think it's a claim that the second sentence to article 3 of the amendment doesn't fit in. It seems fair to me that the last sentence of Article 7 should be deleted because it is linked to Article 3. But if you will prove this connection to me, I will be happy to support both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you. The debate shall also include the Minister. Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you for the word and the opportunity to answer this question, Commissioner. Look. We have already said that the amount that the State will subsidise for the student diet is sufficient for a warm meal. According to the analyses, which means that the second paragraph of Article 7 becomes superfluous, there is no need for further subsidisation. But that's enough. So all the students will get the same amount. There will be no additional subsidy on 2.4 or how many euros. There won't be another one. Because it won't be necessary because they all get enough for a meal. That's a possibility you've got all along. I just want to explain. That won't be necessary. At first, when we thought the amounts would be smaller, we even agreed with the proposers. However, in order to maintain social correction, this amount is already being paid by the State for subsidies in secondary school. But that won't be necessary because everyone will get enough for a hot meal. That's the answer, in fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Replica mags. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u134	Well, Mr. Minister, this is probably the basis for the misunderstanding between us. I think that by introducing the option in Article 3 that the school provides a superstandard meal. And if the school offers only a superstandard meal, it is not necessarily sufficient that the amount allocated for the subsidy is sufficient. And you ruled out those who were socially at risk because you deleted from Article 7. You're not consistent. Just like you're not consistent proponents. You've done the calculations at 2.35. You then proposed 2.43 in the government's opinion, and the law says 2.42. But you always have the same figure as the state budget. I used to know how to count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Mr. Minister, there are no replicas on the replica. You may, however, apply in the context of the debate. Can I help you? The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you. So the calculations of the differences are on the number of students. The candidates relied on a lower number of students than us or even higher. They're at 94,000 and we're at 90. Thank you. But what you were trying to say earlier -- the deletion, the second amendment, the deletion of the second part of Article 7, you're illogically linking it to Article 3. There's absolutely nothing to do with subsidizing students. No, it's not, it's not, it's a meaningful connection.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u137	Comrade Kumer, I can't give you a replica. But you can do it as much as you want, mag. Spending. We can do another round of debate whenever you want. However, I invite Ambassador Mitja Ljubeljska to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I wonder how many words about this law, which has already been discussed in all previous discussions, are being heard again today. I think that in this law, which is very simple, life, social, they have to try to break it up and disable it. Unbelievable. I find that practically incredible. And before that, it was heard that people were watching us. Of course they're watching us. We are very much watched in this marriage. All those in high school. All those who have primary school students, who will also become high school students, because this law is very important to them. It is important because it will eliminate the concern that their child will be provided with a warm, high-quality meal every day, which is not what high school students now have. Because they get the money, they don't know whether he bought a sandwich or not or he spent it on something else. And secondly, because this is going to be very familiar with their family budget. Calculate how much a meal is worth and how much it lasts a month. These are two aspects of people looking at us and watching us. I also believe that in individual debates, individual debaters or debates will also switch to another channel and return to the parliamentary channel. We are talking about the amendment to Article 3 which is very simple. However, the debate is general, which has already been heard several times. Same. The third amendment speaks, only to add: "a daily warm meal worth the value of Article 5 of this Act." Article 5 defines the value of this meal. And the last sentence that makes it superstandard. And that's what the Minister explained. And I agree with that. But it's all a different matter. Worry about how to provide financial resources. Let's wait, let's adopt the law. Let's wait for the balance, and we'll see what the government proposes, which item. How to organize? Let's drop it. Do we have to deal with this in the National Assembly? This is a team of experts at the Ministry and they are also responsible at individual schools. And at least they can arrange something else as well as arrange for the sharing of a warm meal. We don't know what a healthy meal is. Let's leave it to the experts. How do they know what a healthy meal is like in kindergartens, primary schools, for students? He's got a premeditated move. Listen, on the first day of the term, a pre-election move begins. But the testimonies are when the elections are held. So I don't really understand what the opposition really wants. On the one hand, they say they'll support it. They have tabled no amendments today to correct the text, but they are not and are problematic. They're in trouble. Inanimate, impossible. You can't take him. Who's gonna do all this? Man really doesn't understand you. I believe the people watching you don't understand you either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you, too. Anyone else want to discuss this in connection with the article? I'm opening a new application procedure. Please report. I call on Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I have to say, it really saddens me that for some, on the first day of my term, a pre-election move begins. For this clearly indicates that some government Members are working only and only for new elections or a new mandate. It really saddens me that I was sure that you were few or that you cared little about citizens and citizens. I hope that this practice will change and that we will all work together for the people, including those who gave us a mandate to decide on their behalf. And you know when some people are so populism and that's what you're talking about. I've asked the Minister today. I think I've said the same thing three times. In substance, Minister, I would like answers, substantive answers to what will be brought in by sub-marriage acts. But all you talked about was finance. The funding will be provided in the budget. The funding will be provided to the budget, 45 million. We've heard that a few times today. It's not just the financials that are going to touch the underlaws. The entire content of the law is related to the regulations that you will draw up at the Ministry. But you're obviously not able to speak today and present in public what the content is going to be if you want to, this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u141	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u142	Why so much debate, you ask. It's like we're here on vacation. As if we are not here to draw attention to the same topic that has been dealt with three times in this room, four times when we have discussed the budget. And then, the minister with all the magnetograms I have here never once supported the financing of a warm meal. That's duality. And I'm not going to have a double standard before that. This duality of criteria then comes so far that this pre-election year can take place until a future budget is destabilized. Who cares about money once, and who cares about the one who's gonna have to do the magic with that money and won't? If yesterday the government has prevented any increase in funds for this purpose, it today gives it open arms. Okay. That's great. We said the seizure of the pre-election period would be useful. I don't know what happened in the middle that the government came to this knowledge. Is it possible to realize that there is actually not as much bread in garbage as was once said? Why don't we put the amendments to this marriage? In fact, this would violate the illegality of the law in some way. We don't have the right to deal with the law, considering you're throwing it in the trash. I warn and again quote the Act on the Recovery of the Consequences of asbestos, the Treatment of Asbestos, because there are no properly defined financial implications. Does this law have proper financial implications? Why did you count, say, just a warm meal? Why didn't you also count the wages of those who would have to prepare these warm meals? I don't see them here. I mean, this ease - a few days before the elections there is an unbearable ease of calculation, which also brings good work, such as warm meals. But then someone has to pay for them. And today I have already warned that it has the same status, for example, and the incredibly greater consequences of the law, which speaks of the need to pay back the damage caused in World War II, which goes to 600 million euros. We're talking about 42 without any cost. So, even without investments to adjust the premises. But I'm talking about these 2.4 and so many euros per student. It's just about duality. And remember who's listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I don't know why you're so nervous and aggressive. I tried to ask the Minister myself earlier, because this proposal for a law is very binding. I was just trying to ask who would be responsible if all of the 110 thousand students did not have the same opportunity to quote: "warm, quality, healthy meal for 2.42 euros." Because it doesn't just mean 40, 50 million. It means additional millions in investments. And that is all I ask: Who will be responsible because this will not be realized in this way? And there's only one sub-base - where will you get the catering for 2.42 euros? Do you have kids who go to high school now? It costs 2 euros in Ljubljana all over the school! You will receive catering for a warm, quality, healthy meal for 2.42 euros. And I said before, only 27 high schools have a kitchen. By 1 September of this year, everyone else has to deal with this. Please! That was a very correct question. And that question requires an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I don't mind talking to the opposition. I don't mind you saying that the marriage is doomed, that it's sad and I don't know what it is. But I'm giving you one suggestion, and I'm asking you to sign a referendum if the marriage is really so broken. When it's accepted, because it's a great opportunity for you, because yesterday, one of your opportunities fell because you already had it made, how you're going to go to the referendum. Put that law on the referendum. You'll see how people feel about your arguments. That's the best option. Now you're smiling so strangely. Put that law on the referendum! I urge you to be consistent for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you, too, for your proposal. Anyone else want to discuss this with the amendment? I'm opening up a re-circuit circuit. Here you go, please. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just repeat what was said. We are dealing with this law with financial obligations. Today, we know that there are no funds available for this and that the leadership of this Parliament has had a different attitude towards the opposition's proposal, where we have ensured by the asbestos law that the rights of the asbestos sufferers are guaranteed. At that time, the coalition, or Parliament’s leadership, rejected more or less the law that spoke of human health. About the amendment, just this. We're talking today. The minister also said, "The law will be introduced gradually." No, no, no. The law comes for the entire Slovenian secondary population 1.9.2008. Do we all understand this law or not?Oh, my God! Nowhere does it say that some schools or some students will not be able to follow because there will be no conditions. I don't understand it any different. And that school, which will not provide, will be sanctioned in accordance with this penalty law. And here are the relevant questions. And then there's the relevant question. A colleague of mine is clearly, beautifully warned, numbers are flying like this, and 43 million euros is always the same. Why? When the Minister spoke, Article 7 should be deleted in part. Why didn't the government warn you in its opinion that the number should be increased to 2.43? And why did the government not then have the information that this amount would cover everything? Isn't it interesting that the government understands this law so gradually and warns us after we warn her? And a question that is unclear, which does not have a clear answer: superstandard based on student demand. And Explanation: Superstandard is provided according to the demand of students. So, the concept of healthy diet falls. There is a resolution on healthy nutrition. So it's just about asking students. And let's ask ourselves: what will be the regulatory element here in the relationship between students and school leadership, which could be very much at odds if we introduce this as a superstandard? The only criteria we write down here are the demand for students. At the same time, we all find that eating habits are poor, such as the number of meals, the composition of a meal. Now let's write this down in such an easy way. And let us convince you, the proponents, by explaining where you simply write in reverse the same content as in the law that there is a serious substantive thought here. Or are we already aware that, of course, a school with 2.42 euros per meal will not come through and will be obliged to offer extra-standard meals where payment from its own pocket will be required? These are the weighty comments on the content of this amendment that is here, and we do not get them. And today you say to me, "No, there's no burger here." Yeah, what do you mean? In a statement to the media, a colleague of Jeraeva said, "Yes, these are steaks, these are goulashes" and so on. Do you understand?Oh, my God! The point is that everyone imagines "the simplest of Prešeren" as the realisation of this law will be. And here we expect both from the proponents and from the Government, which is so supportive of this law that it answers us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! I don't mind that the debate at times is also fiery. Although it bothers me a little, we're talking about all-powerful numbers and all-powerful content. However, I would initially dare to speculate and predict that it would probably be very, very little or almost none of the Members who would vote against this law. That's just my prognosis. With regard to the amendment to Article 3, I do not think it makes sense for me to explain it because it has already been justified and because we are co-signers of this amendment. It is quite clear that we will also support him in the New Slovenia Group. And as secondly signed under the Proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Student Nutrition, I came from the point of origin that the school was a second home for students. Of course, assuming they have the first one at home. I'm afraid that's not always the case. Where children feed and how they feed in their home, that is, in their first home, is not the subject of today’s debate. The smart country, which Slovenia is, will also provide as ideal an environment as possible with food for the generation that is in the most sensitive development, psychophysical development. The question that has been raised many times today: Why now, in an election year, this law? Let me remind you. The law was introduced last year, in 2007. Whether it's arbitrary or pre-election, I don't think it matters. However, each marriage must be regarded as preeminent and permissive. That depends on which way we look at it. And it led me to sign this law, too. Indeed, at the end of last December, the accounts of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 were already shown. There was a budget surplus. Which means that we did well in Slovenia and that we are doing well. Approximately the surplus that we actually need for the financial implementation of this law at the annual level. Of course, Mr. Vice President, can my colleagues on the right except for Marita Uhan calm down?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u151	Colleague Eva Irgle, please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u152	On my right. Do you know where my right hand is, Mr. Vice President? That's my right hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u153	I'm sorry. When I looked around the hall, only Ambassador Eva Irgle spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u154	Mrs Majda Potrate and Mrs Breda Pecan bother me all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u155	I'm asking for peace in the hall. All he has is a speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u156	That's what they say. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we all agree that the greatest burden of this law is on finance, on the Ministry of Finance or on the Minister of Finance. That's a fact. Of course also at the Ministry of Education and Sport. I would like to comfort you, my fellow members of the opposition, and invite you to follow me when I declare that I trust the Minister of Finance. If he was able to provide an additional EUR 30 million to increase the child allowance, if he could fill the gap created by the new income law, he had a large share of EUR 38 million. If he was able to reconcile pensions at the beginning of 2005, if he was familiar with the latest amendment of the Law on a Protection Supplement to provide funds of EUR 10 million, then I am confident, given the economic indicators, that he will also make every effort this time and find the appropriate resources for this school year. It's a school year for me to be more accurate, 2008/2009. And I welcome this law. As a matter of fact, I invite you to follow me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Someone else besides the mags wants it. You're wasting it? No, no, no. The word has a Member of the State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you. I'd like to apologize to Mr. Horvath. But I really couldn't hold back from laughing when he first claimed that the budget surplus had been found in December. The law, you said before, had been filed long ago. If he's found money for everything you've shared, he'll do it for it. But I'm calling about this article for something else. This law governs only diocese diet in secondary schools. However, it leaves entirely the possibility of providing a warm meal for high school students in student homes. Because if we look at things from this side, if it's probably right that a student is guaranteed the right to one warm meal, which is subsidized - that's all. There were a lot of questions. And that probably won't get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u159	It's a replica. Comrade Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respectable magus. Majda Potrat! Let's be exact. I said that in December, the figures of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2007 were displayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you, too. Can we close the discussion in connection with Article 3? Thank you. We are moving on or I am putting forward Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you. For those of you who look forward to my time soon to come, I will live a long time. I have good genes. This amendment shall be discriminatory in relation to reading Article 3. Where the superstandard will be provided. Those who are socially at risk will no longer have the opportunity to exercise the right to an additive. But this is just a comment from the opposition MP who dares to think about what such amendments bear. However, I would advise the drafters of the law because the Government has kept an eye on it, so that they should notice that the deletion of this provision in Article 7 also necessarily requires an amendment to Article 10. For if there is no longer a need to prove social threats and a subsidy will be granted to everyone, then the record certainly does not need to provide proof of the status referred to in the second sentence of Article 7(1) of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with your debate in conjunction with Article 7. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. However, amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 10th item, to the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of Financing for Education and Education. I'd like to inform you that we have 4 hours and 40 minutes for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister, to further explain the bill. Dr. Milan Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the New Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education for a short time. As you know, we started with the preparation of this novel back in 2006, in the second half of 2006, when we presented the starting points for these changes at the traditional meetings of officials in Portorož. During this time, meetings, coordinations, negotiations with social partners and trade unions were held. Last but not least with the parliamentary groups. And not just once. Further adoption or the fate of the law in the legislative body is known. In the second half of last year, due to great opposition, political pressure and the threat of a referendum in a given situation in anticipation of the European Union Presidency, we removed two elements of this novel, which were most controversial for the opposition. This is equivalent to, evenly, equal funding for educational programmes, regardless of ownership. And so-called centres or the possibility of educational institutions being organised to centres where conditions are for this and where there is a will for this. Because of the great opposition and the threat to the referendum, we withdrew these two articles. You now have a novel that has also gone through a debate in the working bodies of the legislative body. We would like to stress once again that the adoption of this novelty is extremely important. That we also receive appeals daily, especially from university life, where they want the law to determine as soon as possible the level of education for workers in education and education. For they believe that this also depends on the dynamics of the development of the Bologna process. As you know, the new law also provides or provides some legal basis for free textbooks in primary school, throughout the primary school. The extended stay will also be free of charge, including up to the fifth grade. The new way of funding will also be given a legal basis, which is already in practice in the good part of Slovenian secondary schools. As you know, a new way of organizing, including organisations, has not only started funding long ago in Slovenia. Some of the better high schools got him. Later, in 2004 he was admitted into the experiment. So it's in the system itself. After so many years of verification, it is right to introduce it. For the last time on the working body, we had the opportunity to listen to the principals, the people in practice who were constantly evaluating, to monitor the new way of organising and financing education, and to say that there is no better system. It ensures that smaller programs as well, with fewer students, we successfully finish. So let's give students professions that are either deficient or not so massive. However, this system also offers this possibility. What is most important in this system is that it allows or somehow gives in the structure the possibility of permanent quality assurance in the Slovenian school. Slovenian school - this is known, has received significant praise from the international community in recent years through various analyses and surveys. All four of them could be listed, which place the Slovenian school in the very top quality and also in some other aspects. It is right that we are developing this quality further. That it's not gonna be a one-day fly. The adoption of this law is also extremely important from this point of view. Dear Members and Members! I am counting on your support and for as constructive a dialogue as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u166	A very nice greeting, once again, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, which on 6 March 2008 addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The committee has met with a very similar content before. Nevertheless, there was a relatively long debate that did not touch on the proposed solutions. But above all, the amendments with which some have proposed, among other things, the restoration of some of the solutions that have already been amended by some of the previous amendments to the laws, including the composition of the school's world and some other solutions. Finally, the Committee adopted eleven amendments. Among them was one opposition and voted in favour of the text and we propose to the National Assembly that such a law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary of State and two other associates! In fact, it would not be necessary, but I will say: In the National Assembly, I get the feeling that we have been given a mandate from people to keep quiet and not to draw attention to the shortcomings of the proposed legal texts. If I come from the experience and the nervousness that this experience shows, coalition Members and Members are very impatient when they have to listen to the opposition. Even when it comes to the president of the working body, who is the parent body of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, I would like to hear my requests and recommendations for once. Let him be the president of the working body who will report things objectively. The claim that one opposition amendment was adopted is a lie. For this amendment was identical to the amendment of the coalition MPs. And I've already asked him on the committee not to accept this amendment to prove how good the coalition was, which, however, welcomed the acceptance of one from a multitude of amendments. I don't know how to say anything new. But here's what I'm going to tell you, Mr. Secretary, I hope I can still tell you. Your claim that my comments on the proposed law are wrong, I'm going to show you with a case. If I come into the shoe store and the salesman asks for shoes that fit me, and she tells me to give me shoes for a bigger number or a smaller number, I can't thank her for the kindness of having nothing to do with those shoes. And so it is with this proposal that we are discussing today. And with the Minister's comment that an extended stay was granted in the 5th class, when I did not agree that there was no extended stay in the 6th class. And as it is said, it is also related to other matters related to this law. I will not speak with my words right now, but with the words of Dr. Zdenka Kodelje, who wrote this in today's Work as a guest pen: "The amended Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education will probably be adopted despite the fact that at least in some of the amendments it makes, neither the professional nor the political consensus has been reached. The novela only takes into account rare proposals not proposed by the coalition. However, it maintains the provisions that are applicable among experts, irrespective of the differences in their professional, visual and political preferences, broad consensus that they are under-thinking and very problematic. Finally, the government withdrew from the novel only two of the most controversial articles, one of which was the merger of schools to the centres and the other the financing of the private school programme. She did not withdraw them because she would have been persuaded by the contrary arguments, but that she had avoided the announced referendum." I would only add to the respectable Dr. Kodelj so that she has withdrawn not only one article, but those articles which are related to these two provisions. But just like Dr. Kodela, I think that the Government has not given up the 100 % funding of private schools, because a group of Members and Members, with a role to play before the Constitutional Court, has rushed sail. In this law, which we will be talking about again today, there are also a number of provisions allowing for the equalisation of funding that facilitates the establishment of private schools. We've done something before in the Kindergarten Act. And that's how you can prove what's true and what it looks like. Even in this law, the willingness to engage in dialogue is purely appearance. We will oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u169	Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! So today we are again considering ZOFVI, which we can certainly tell him is not fortunate in this National Assembly. Why is he unhappy? The minister of the Beast boasted on the committee that it was the same law that had been vetoed in the State Council, which the minister did not like, but under the threat of a referendum then withdrew. Let me quote him. [[Meeting of the Committee]] : "On the date of the rejection of the re-voting of the ZOFVI government novel in November, the government introduced an identical law to Parliament." Then, of course, the Minister says that two details have been removed, which have been most opposed to the public. And there are not many who get the feeling that this law is like a market, and then a higher price is set, and try to make the best of it. Perhaps even someone gets the sense that the minister treats Parliament in the same way as Croats do neighbouring countries when they step forward and then step back two steps. If at least the Minister would step back, two, because there were very many things in this law that we have been alerting to, which we have already warned about in the entire procedure of the law, when he was first under consideration and, of course, then in the course of any changes. It's the same law. Only 100% funding and the school network has been withdrawn. It is a pity that the Minister did not take advantage of the possibility of a correctional examination and did not improve those controversial issues of the novel, which he was warned about with various things, not only from the LDS. But I am taking advantage of the opportunity to once again expose the most controversial things that have remained in this new law. The first is funding per student’s head in secondary schools, because this is very discriminatory to small schools in demographically endangered environments. In these schools, which already have even if there are science and technology orientations, whose staff are the most lacking. So, which schools already have enrollment problems, they're going to be in a lot of financial trouble. The next thing is the Council for Quality and Evaluation, which gives the Minister too much power. The Minister can himself appoint members to this world, very large powers. It's like the minister wouldn't realize that he wouldn't be in this chair forever, and someone else would come after this law with too much authority. He will simply have too many powers because, if he appoints a minister to this world, which is supposed to be an expert who is supposed to decide on the professional criteria, he will completely politically recruit people who will decide who will judge as he wants. Articles 7 and 8 of the General Education Council are also controversial. In particular in the area of vocational schools, where this Council is supposed to no longer have jurisdiction in the field of general subjects. So, with those subjects that give one broad foundation, one general knowledge. Article 28 is also disputed by the collapse of the network of public schools. The public school network is one of the most important networks we have in Slovenia. Again, the 28th article I am talking about now will cause smaller schools to be in demographic danger, generally less developed environments not only financially in a difficult situation, but even worse in certain cases will be abolished. In certain cases, this will lead to the fact that there are simply not enough students enrolled in a particular school and that the school will be abolished. And since these schools are usually rarely planted, not in urban centres where there is an extra one-mile or two school, this will mean for students an extra drive to school and back, every day an additional one that and so much time. As a result of all of this, these novels of the LDS, despite the fact that the two improvements are being made, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Well, again, we have the New Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, which is prepared on the basis of a new law that was not adopted by the Council of State in the National Assembly. At the time, all the controversy was the 100% payment of quality education programmes approved by the State for all schools, as well as the voluntary integration of schools into educational centres. This is what the current novel is leaking. I'm sorry. Above all, we regret in New Slovenia that we are so afraid of quality schools. School that came out of the average. It is expected that the proposed novels, which do not contain these disputed provisions, will be finally adopted. The Novela legally introduces quality monitoring and evaluation at school level, so-called self-evaluation and at national level. Public programmes will be introduced, accepted and evaluated by the competent public institutions. However, the Quality and Evaluation Board will propose criteria and procedures for identifying and providing quality at national level to the Minister. The decentralised funding system following the MoFAS project, which gradually introduces a new method of funding and organisation for secondary education institutions, according to the methodology for fund-building for participants in education, is also appropriate. This is how 70% of high school students are already funded. That this is the right way for us to be convinced by school representatives who are already implementing this system and who already have positive experience with this type of funding and are satisfied with such a system. After the amendment of the law, private schools will no longer need two departments after the new establishment. The requirement of the old law that a private school should have at least two departments was irrational and pointless and hindered many at least at the beginning. The Law also provides legal basis for the co-financing of parental payments, which include more than one child in a student’s home. This solution certainly represents a financial burden on students who decide to be educated in remote areas and are therefore forced to stay in student homes. So if students are in a student’s home and are two or more children of the same family in a student’s home, the family will pay for the first one’s stay. For others, the law provides the legal basis for co-financing of residence by the State. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the prepared novel improves the current law. That is why we will support him in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by fellow Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Ministry representatives, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! We believe that the novelties of the law bring many necessary and welcome changes that will contribute to a better school system and better opportunities for better education and education. It is also necessary to harmonise the required education for professional workers in the field of education and education with amendments to the Higher Education Act and the Professional and Scientific Titles Act. In particular in the area of personal education and higher education in Slovenia, the renovation has been taking place for a long time in the direction of greater decentralisation, deregulation, autonomy of schools and greater involvement of schools in the environment. This also increases the responsibility of schools. However, planning for both content and organization of life and work at school is improving. Schools need to live and breathe with their environment. Schools enrich life in the area and thus the life of society in general. All children, regardless of where they live, must have the same opportunity to participate in public schools. Therefore, we welcome the additional guardian in the law that compulsory children will be granted the right to enroll in a public school in the school environment in which they reside, irrespective of the existence of a private primary school. In addition, parents need to be able to choose for themselves how and where they want to educate their children. The most important thing is for us, in addition to better accessibility for all people, in order to ensure adequate quality and control over the implementation of school programmes in private education as well. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is essential to include in our education also domestic education and education for sustainable development and for the active involvement of young people in democratic society. The development of awareness of national ownership and national identity and behaviour about the history of Slovenia and its culture must become part of education and education, as it is unacceptable that our children know little about their country and country that school celebrations were not celebrated on the day of statehood and other important holidays. The biggest controversy in the novel has been the financing of private schools and the funding of the number of participants in education. It is perfectly logical that different forms and modes of education in secondary education require the development of a more appropriate funding methodology based on the creation of an amount of funding per participant in education. Otherwise gradually until 2012. In the parliamentary group, we supported 100% co-financing of private schools. With regard to the current regulation of 80 % of co-financing of private schools, it could be said that something better than nothing, but it should be borne in mind that this is a distinction between already established and 100% funded schools, so it is a distinction not only between institutions, but also between children who will decide to participate in such a school. We also support solutions regarding the composition of the school world. We believe that it is right that parents play an equal role in decision-making. The students are also represented by parents in high school councils, and their representatives can also be represented on the councils when the student situation is being addressed or decisions on their problems and proposals are being made. It is most important to ensure adequate quality and supervision of the implementation of the programmes. Appropriate evaluations and all necessary activities in the field of quality measurement, monitoring, research and analysis are carried out for these services, such as the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the State Examination Centre, the Centre for Vocational Education, the Andragog Centre of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in our opinion, ensures a sufficiently professional approach. Of course, it is necessary to place them systematically. There are also highly qualified and competent people in the professional education body, so it is entirely appropriate that the competence to set up catalogues of knowledge and vocational and professional education is entrusted to the professional and professional education council. We therefore believe that the concerns expressed by some regarding the changed powers of the Vocational Education Council are not necessary. Since the law brings some improvements to the education and education system and some urgent changes, we will support changes in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you, President. In fact, I was thinking whether I should present it or not, this position, which was presented in the debate on the parental committee, I think that more than eight, if not a ten-hour debate, which today was held by the chairman of the parent committee in a minute to two, but I think it will be longer because we are already threatened by one table behind Mr Grims' back, in our own name, of course. The debate was powerful, since there had been no transfer in the law for three years in the third parliamentary programme of this debate, because there were very few opinions in this debate in the style of the well-known bus arrivals of government supporters, which would have tried to apply a different position with an argument. There were two of us, all of you with your eyes when the discussion was being held over and over again to defend some of the views that testified that the problem of ZOFVI was not only a controversial article on 100% financing of private schools but was a problem of ZOFVI and is a problem of this law also in other points. Well, I've changed my mind, I've stepped in, I'm going to say the position of the Group of Ambassadors really because there's one historical memory, and also the tables are always on the magnetograms, threatening with this Grims sword on top of us that we have to respect what was once said if it's not manipulated of course. In short, it is right to say what else we are dissatisfied with in Really, but the rest are just bits, there is only one article left that can be fixed, everything else is closed. We are dissatisfied that too much space has been opened for the various discretionary decisions of the professional council, and we are dissatisfied that the practice of monitoring new programmes has not been maintained throughout the first generation of education. We are dissatisfied that the composition of the evaluation world has not been accepted in the composition we wanted. For we wanted to ensure such representation by all stakeholders, which would be fairer and wider. We wanted to eliminate the unjustified exercise of even greater differences in the preparation of these exam catalogues for the professional general prom, and at this parental committee of almost ten hours, there was a debate, or Mr. Slavinec, I don't think you've heard it, so you can listen, there's a debate, or who needs the knowledge of Cankar, Shakespeare, or anyone else? [[...]] We have drawn attention to the spirit of this targeted education or pragmatic type of education introduced by the Minister of the Beast when he believes that some broad knowledge does not need to be given to some groups of the peer-oriented study. We have opposed the composition of worlds of kindergartens, primary schools, music schools, vocational schools, high schools and student homes, because we want to be adequately represented by all stakeholders concerned with the work of institutions. We objected to the fact that the founding act lays down the scope of the directors, their work and their powers. In short, there is a small fraction left in Article 24 and, consequently, Article 26, which cannot, even if adopted, improve the ZOFVI as we would like. As a result, we cannot predict his support, since these 24th and 26th will certainly be over-voted, you have the power to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u178	Dear Vice President, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Education! Following the rejection of the law by re-voting, a law almost identical to the previous proposal came in the parliamentary branch, with the difference that the most controversial articles on the financing of private schools and articles relating to the integration of public schools and kindergartens into centres were deleted from this proposal. The main concerns and dilemmas of the new proposal arise again, and this time more intensively, with regard to changing the model of financing for secondary education, as well as with regard to changing the Council's position and tasks for quality and the withdrawal of certain powers from the General Education Council. The fundamental reform of the school system and the area of its funding began in the framework of the previous parliamentary mandate, including a project to modernise the financial and administrative system of education and education, and is the product of the work of the previous school minister. As a result of these facts, we are asked why today such opposition to the organisation and method of work and to the model of funding per participant, if experience from the testimonies of the operators of this model is positive and the way in which the amount of resources obtained from the budget depends on the calculation of the costs per student is used in our higher education. We also doubt in our parliamentary group that the concerns of opponents of such a funding model are justified if this is to introduce the market legitimacy of competition. Competition is good, healthy and certainly meaningful in the educational system. A good curriculum, a high and high-quality professional competence of teachers, and for which every good director must strive, cannot lower the educational standards of the students. The quality of education, the way in which knowledge is provided and the level of knowledge acquired, which some believe will also decline due to an increase in the number of audiences in individual departments, is not threatened by the proposed funding model that we assess, as all remaining standards and standards will still need to be respected. The arguments, indeed the arguments that we heard at the meeting of the parent committee, presented by the representatives, school directors and school centres, which, although experimentally, had already successfully tackled the news of funding, convinced me and convinced us sufficiently that we had decided to support them in the parliamentary group. Otherwise, the law brings other very positive changes and additions, in particular to point out, in accordance with the high level of child protection, the article on the prohibition of employment and the provision of work in education and education in the case of both the legal services found, as well as the suspicion of criminal services against sexual inviolability. I should only point out that the last paragraph in the supplementary text of Article 36 is still somewhat flawed in the sense that there is no prohibition on the conclusion of any other contract under which a person works in the event of the imposition of a criminal procedure. Given that we have in principle supported the previous draft law on the organisation and financing of education and education, today our position remains similar to that of the day, so we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! Very briefly. The financing of secondary education by student’s head, as set out in Article 26, is simply a demographic threat compared to the current situation. The Minister may appoint or appoint a Council for Quality and Evaluation. The minister's office is a political function. However, the Council for Quality and Evaluation is an expert task, which is unacceptable for policy to determine expertise. I should also mention paragraphs 7 and 8 in which we find that the world for general education is under all the powers it has so far. However, if we look very closely at Article 28, we find that there is also a collapse of the public school network. In order not to explain now what can be read between the lines between these articles and clear errors and irregularities. I don't want to explain because it's Friday because you are and we're all too tired together, but it's not fair. It is not fair to take or evaluate political and professional functions, it is not fair to take rights from the General Education Council, it is not fair to demolish a network of public schools. Such a law, of course, you can also read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and their comments on individual articles, such a law in the Slovenian National Party will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u181	And Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, following the presentation of the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u182	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If you read a report from your parent's working body or a report from the STA on the situation on your parent's working body, then you can quickly get to a picture that repeats itself or the practice of this government. After several hours of discussion, the mother's working body confirmed the government's proposal for a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education, with coalition supplements being adopted and rejected by all the opposition. How interesting. Today, the minister spoke entirely of threats, political pressures, in the beginning. Once again, the committee has accepted all the coalition's additions to the government's proposal for a law, but not a single opposition, substantive opposition supplement. Allow for a brief moment only a few points from the law. The government says the novel brings free textbooks. Really? The system already allows free textbooks today, so in the past, respected colleagues and colleagues have begun to form school textbook funds. Free extended stay up to including the fifth grade, says the Government, but at the same time introducing the payment of extended stay for sixth grade students. So, somewhere, lady, somewhere else, we take away what's already been legalized by the old system, that right. It enables public-private partnerships in the establishment of schools. In this segment, respected colleagues and colleagues, it appears that the Government's intention to demolish the public education system in our country, which is under the same conditions today, but not for long, is accessible to all students, regardless of the social situation, regardless of the place of residence. The government proposal should also coordinate the required level of education of teachers with Bologna reform, in other words what is enshrined in this law means the degradation of teachers. Systemic funding of secondary schools is being introduced after a student, the so-called moffa system of methodology. On behalf of the Lip Group, I say that this also means the possibility of increasing the number of students in the classroom, which consequently means a poorer quality and a shift from what the Government says, that this law also means an individual approach or individualisation, while increasing the number of students per class, is impossible. While it is true that in this proposal the Government is significantly complementing the so-called pedophile article or article which in some way prevents employment in the field of education and education for persons who are legally convicted of a crime against the sexual inviolability of children and in some ways allows suspension, but with a great question. This article is incomplete, still. Then there are the criteria and procedures for determining and ensuring quality, as referred to in Article 6. Here, too, in the Lipa Group, we have concerns about how to appoint members of the evaluation councils, which, under such conditions as once in law, does not allow for the independence of this body. Determination of subject and test catalogues of knowledge, as referred to in Article 7. The Government shall, under this Article, amend the powers of both professional councils, at the expense of the expertise of those who decide also within the framework of the primary level. Article 15 - composition of the school council. A new mode of funding - Article 24, which I have mentioned recently. The Legal and Legislative Service has also made a number of comments. The State Council, for example, did not support the law. I do not understand how some may claim that this law is very good and harmonised. And maybe just for the end, respectable colleagues and colleagues. When we first heard from the Minister of Threat, or talk about threats, political pressures, blackmail, deception, and so on. I say, you know, "Wonderful are the ways of gentlemen," but I believe that colleague Grims, who comes after me in turn, will substantiate the words mentioned at the outset by the minister for a reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you very much. And mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u184	It is really funny, colleagues and colleagues, including Mr Gabr, who has just used this word, how much excitement only one poor poster, one statement, credible vote in this National Assembly when you bring it and with it you cut out the demagogy and hate speech that our so-called transitional left in this National Assembly is making. I would not do that if it were not for the first introduction, today, in the presentation of the views of the SD Group, a demagogy we have been meeting with for more than half a year was once again used. In fact, it was said that this law was once again trying to reintroduce 100% funding for private church schools. Now, for those of us who haven't had a chance to hear it, because of course the media has been hiding it "as a young cat" as it is called in Goranj. I brought back this authentic document. Who actually passed the law a long time ago, in 1996, 100% of the funding of private church schools. This was a coalition, then Kocijančič's, today Pahor's SD, then the LDS, all who were identified from the SD voted for 100% financing of private church schools led by Mr Kocijancič and Mr Ribičič and others. Among those who voted for 100% financing of private church schools, one was also elected on the list of Slovenian National Party - Mr Peče, I hope you are listening to me now - that was Mr Brane Eržen. However, then the article with which we tried to correct the great injustice that was committed by this vote at the time, because this 100% funding was legalized for those who had already been set up by then, received a concession. For those who were established subsequently, only 85% of the funding of the programmes was legalized and we actually tried to do so, this duality, this inequality before the law, we tried to correct with that law that was then withdrawn in the autumn vote in this National Assembly. The absurdity of the situation when the Waldorf School in Ljubljana as a private school has a 100% funded program, the same school, be careful, the same founder, the same school in Maribor, 85% and the difference between parents from their pockets, as if the Mariborians had done something bad to the Ljubljanaers. This inequality before the law will be in the eyes and I say it is inappropriate and obviously unconstitutional to me. However, this is the subject of a judgment before the Constitutional Court and is not subject to any decision on this law. For this reason, I hope that we are interpreting this in the SDS Group for the last time, and I suggest, even all others, that they cease demagogy, with the netting of the hate speech by playing with our emotions, and that we all wait together for the Constitutional Court's judgment, and that we then try to create legislation by having a tail and head and that it will be in line with the Slovenian Constitution. What is now the subject of the decision, however, is the law that the Government has now resubmitted. This law has many advantages over existing legislation and, on behalf of the SDS Group, let me stress just a few that are essential. First and foremost, this law means much greater protection for our children. In fact, it has an article that allows people who are legally accused of the worst crimes to be excluded from the school process, including, of course, the most shameful paedophilia. This article, I note, will be somewhat unrealistic for itself, unless the new Penal Code is also supported, which allows the establishment of a record in such a way that it is accessible to schools in this process, namely, for all time backwards, which the current law does not fully allow. In addition, the new legislation offers many other advantages and, above all, greater involvement of parents in the educational process, which is certainly the common desire of all of us and gives them certain powers that they have not yet had. In addition, it provides funding per head for high school students, which by the way is already running almost three-quarters. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that the implementation of these various programmes is even greater and thus, to the greatest extent possible, also contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the Bologna reform set by Europe. [[..]] Those who oppose this article must be aware that this is essentially a solution that is the very reform that we have committed ourselves to or are committed to because of the conclusions of the European Union, because without these specific programmes it will simply not be possible to implement. In addition, the law has in fact only taken on some of the solutions that have proved to be good in practice, have been widely debated in previous procedures and, according to our strong assessment, represent the enrichment and strengthening of the school system as a whole. For these reasons, the proposed law will be proposed by the SDS Group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u185	I sincerely apologize. I'd be warned, Comrade Grimes. My mistake to all those Members, I was not careful with the strong, strong overstepping of Ambassador Grims. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 27.3. And I am putting an amendment to Article 24. I remind you that the amendment to Article 24 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Articles 26, 1, 3 and 4, 37 and 41. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 26, 37 and 41 are irrelevant. The proposed amendments are the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the Zares Group and the Lipa Group of Members. I'm opening the application procedure. For once, we have four Members of Parliament who have been notified. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the case of a law which has so many substantive impurities and unacceptable provisions for the Social Democrats, there is little to deal with at the National Assembly. This also speaks or confirms the thesis which I have already stated on behalf of the parliamentary group that the opposition's amendments have not been adopted, which means that the law, apart from the rarely opened articles, has been closed, but this amendment is still linked to Article 24 with the amendments to Articles 26 and 27. Since there was no other option, as such, to submit, and therefore I know that, in this vote and in this amendment, others fall or exist, because the amendment relates in a way that finances secondary schools. The way that is quite awkward and harsh sometimes is said to be, I say, according to the participant, and some, otherwise, is unacceptable to the Social Democrats, and we believe that it is also harmful to secondary education. We advocate an integrated, sorry, integral, but now I will be in agriculture soon instead of in education. This is called integral funding, funding for the programme, which is a significantly better solution than the one advocated by the minister and also by some of his fellow thinkers. What happened on the Committee was that, on behalf of the Ministry on the Committee, the three principals of secondary school could be explained by the extension of the Ministry's deadline and are there because they can confirm what the Ministry claims should be introduced into the financing of secondary education. The minister also gave the floor, not to say the chairman of the committee, but this is a picnic, which is not the only one, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports. To say that individual experience has already assured a good concept of modified funding is irresponsible for those responsible for their position in the school field. That is why we are making this amendment, including all others, because we believe that, like some other solutions that are fundamentally affecting the education system, there are no appropriate professional grounds. These individual directors may already have good experience. It may already be that they are treated differently, more favourably or better, in this way, in order to facilitate the implementation of this funding system. But it was not presented to us - and I do not claim that there is, it may exist - no analysis, no accompanying study to confirm the advantages of such a way of financing. Of course, I have no great hope that the coalition will act differently under these amendments than it is used to do, but I would like to hear arguments, calculations, analysis results, which I have failed so far. This is, of course, an amendment that creates some of the basic elements of this law, as it is said, but we could not even cut into some, because the articles are closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I ask whether we can also include in the debate on Article 24 in conjunction with Article 26, Article 37 and Article 41, in terms of the content of the proposed amendments, i.e. the integral financing of the system. Does anyone object to this proposal, given that it is identical articles? If anyone objects, raise your hand. No one opposes the proposal. Then we will extend the debate, as we say, to paragraphs 24, 26, 37 and 41. However, Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are adopting a law that contains a little emergency, two, three articles would actually be enough to settle what is good for this law. But it brings a lot of indiscretion. One of the greatest indiscretions, in fact a kind of present gift, is the system of funding that we write down in the law. What we write in the law is worse than what they are doing at the Ministry, and I would like to point out this; this is also pointed out by those who submit the supplement under this Article. If it were true, as we have heard here today, that this system of co-financing would be, that it would be a system of financing, which we call it integral, or a system of transferred funding, then of course it would support it. True, the ministry has already begun to deal with this issue a good number of years ago, and the Kosovo funding system is also in place in higher education. However, there is no funding system for a student or student. If it had been, the college of that colleague who was very much praising this system today would have been closed, in no way could it have worked on the basis of money that would have been shared so that each student would have the same amount of money in that country. Therefore, it would be more important to write down what I think is actually what they think in the ministry - that this system should be a transfer or co-financing system, which would increase autonomy. Otherwise, the funding system only increases the student’s pressure but does nothing else. Do not do what is necessary in such an introduction. It is necessary to take account of the programme, to take into account at least a certain period of emergency stability even if the number of entries fluctuates, then of course it is necessary to include the number of participants, but it is also necessary to include the number of those who eventually succeed in each such school. That's why it's not an adequate record that we have in front of us. It is a record that will necessarily take a change as soon as we hope to think about it again. If we wrote down that we would introduce a system of transferred funding, we would indeed write down a mechanism that would increase the autonomy of the school, could themselves have the resources that would belong to them, but it is not the autonomy of this law, and this is not the case, this can be demonstrated in several places, one of the most typical is that it was rejected a supplement which suggested that teachers should be reintroduced in school decision-making in order to properly participate in this decision-making by the student. Other supplements have also been rejected, which have tried to take a step in the right direction when it comes to this marriage. For example, that supplement, which tells us all about the previous item on the agenda, is a supplement to the need to provide free, warm meals for primary and primary school children as well. If it were not for a purely pre-election propaganda action, this would have been complemented by a committee already adopted, and today the Parliament would only have confirmed it. What I invite you to do is consider whether, in this article, where the error is recorded in an article, it is possible to interpret quickly that the Ministry is paying this moment of secondary school after Slovenia in violation of the law in order to at least remedy this error, we still have this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, these articles relate in particular to the financing of certain other provisions concerning education and education. First of all, I would like to point out that Mr Grimes' presentation is actually good and speaks in support of the Social Democrats. 100% of private school funding is in this logic. Because at least it makes a difference and any children, regardless of their property status, have the possibility of being included in a private school. Those countries striving for a liberal school have private funding for a school where it is private with special status. So you don't have to blush if you back it up. It is totally in line with the social democratic attitude, but now the problem is why you no longer support it. 100% funding is typical of Nordic countries, which also have private schools, but ensure equality of opportunity, regardless of the property situation. The second issue to be raised in relation to this amendment is, therefore, the regulation of the union's consent to the sub-legislative act. What does consent mean? Consent means then the union has a veto on all acts. Something similar, indemnity, indemnity, I can clearly argue, occurred in the Company Act when the same party proposed that the employer or the owner should have the consent of the trade union if it wished to establish a branch. Do you imagine such an arrangement, such a mess in Europe or in the world?Oh, my God! That's what this is about. You need to think about this place as a union. Not the veto, but the cooperation, my dears. If you have the concept of consent, it's a pure veto. You may have had good intentions, but the effect is the opposite. Therefore, it would be very appropriate that such proposals do not appear in terms of dignity. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Yeah, but consent is vetoed. [[...]] That means you can suspend any act, that's it. If the union simply opposes, there will be no act. It's the union's pure predominance. Let this be an opinion, let this be codecision, which I agree with, but these are too powerful weapons that give someone a privileged position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Excuse me. Procedural? Here you go. The replica is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr Drobnič, you mentioned the Social Democrats and the law in which you had a great opportunity to co-decision, but now the implementation shows how right we had the Social Democrats when we requested the consent of the workers to recall a member of the Council of Workers in view of the experience that is taking place. And your subset is probably that the union doesn't have good suggestions and that it's doing bad things, then you have to be afraid of the union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u193	We continue the debate. The word has been delivered by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Some people have some really interesting reasons, I don't know why you're pulling the finances again and again, when the minister said in this new law that this law avoids 100% financing of private schools. Those who like to stress the need for 100% financing of private schools, all well and well, if our country had enough financial resources to ensure the normal and quality existence of public education. But as soon as we start talking about lowering standards in public education, when we start talking about increasing the number of children in classrooms to save in public finances, in public education, it's not fair to talk about 100% and even more than 100% of private education funding in our country. And you know, when I had the opportunity to speak to the headmaster of the Ljubljana Walfdor School a while ago, he said that this was the only case in our country in the Republic of Slovenia or that Slovenia was a model example, in quotations, within the framework of the European Union, as well as at the global level where the Walfdor School received 100% of the country's funding. Another point I would like to point out is that public schools are placed in a deprived position by private or private schools under tax legislation. But when it was possible to open up, when we offered you a proposal to equalize the status of public and private schools, so that both public and private could receive grants and that donors could apply reliefs both in the case of private and public schools, then you said no to this law, you know, it's unfair. This is why it is not fair and it is not good to talk about 100% financing of private education because it is at the expense of public education. Around the amendments tabled, yes, these amendments or the proposed content of Article 24 speak of rationalisation on account or in public education. This is what it says about increasing students, because finance, according to the new, will be financed by a public school to a student. It's a wish, it's a government priority. Departments or the number of students in the class will increase, resulting in a decline in quality. That's the logic. At the time of my presentation, I had already said that in one breath you give and boast that a supplemental study or stay for the fifth grade or fifth grade students will be free of charge. But this extended stay also goes to the expense of schoolchildren who under the old law had the opportunity to visit extended stay for 50% of the pay, half the pay. But now you're taking this option off the table. There's something you're putting somewhere. There's something else you're taking. With the proposed amendment, we want to correct these two mistakes in particular. I believe you're making mistakes, accidental mistakes. Because in the framework of the previous law, we have heard that 45 million is not the problem for this government to be provided in the budget. Why, then, are you taking the budget to allow the students of the sixth grade to attend a free extended stay? Let me remind you that in a nine-year primary school, students fulfil their obligation one year earlier to participate in regular primary education. According to the new system, nine-year primary school in the 6th grade is as old as the previous system in the 5th grade, one year younger. That is why it is so much more justifiable to take into account this amendment, which also gives students of the sixth grade at a nine-year primary school the possibility of attending extended stay free of charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm reopening the circle in connection with the articles we mentioned earlier. Here you go. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today, the Prime Minister said in his introduction that the quality of Slovenian education is based on international comparisons in an enviously high place. The coalition would hear a lot of criticism in this mandate about how bad school education is in existence in Slovenia and that it needs to be corrected. In his presentation to the committee, the Minister was still a little cautious when he was running for Minister. I'm not going to take big steps into this system, little steps, little changes. That we are at such a high level of quality in Slovenian education is certainly the result of some systematic, gradual, coordinated and many-timely in the course of the renegotiated proposal for solutions, which we then gradually incorporated into school legislation in the construction of the school system. Today, many criticisms cannot be heard from coalition parties, as international independent research has shown the results of the past period. It has not yet been possible to comply with the major intervention of this period which could have an impact on quality change. But with the change that we are reintroducing today, as irrelevant as a small segment, which will significantly improve the Slovenian-educational space, we are, of course, changing the funding system under this amendment. Today and in the debate until this moment, we have never heard how this funding system will affect quality. Is it a deliberate step towards a change of funding that will result in an impact on quality. And can we follow this change in a way that improves quality? That's not the answer. Whether they exist through different ways to achieve those goals that this coalition always wants to achieve, i.e. 100% private school funding. And there are many arguments when we read this law that the purpose of such a change is to achieve in a different way than the original one was written, precisely this goal. Is the priority quality? That's not the answer. And of course, here we wonder whether we can so quickly, without these answers, change the school system in such a way that we can later see that the funding system has consequently very negatively reflected in the quality itself. We on the committee had representatives of a particular centre, representatives of the principals of certain schools, where we could listen to their experience. In my former colleagues in Slovenia, I checked different schools to see if this rating was so uniform? No, it's not that uniform. I also respect the views of the directors that we are trying to have quality teaching staff, that we want them to progress, that we want them to be educated, but of course we cannot agree that their message is that funding to the participants is the right path that will lead to better quality. And here I ask coalition representatives or they think about the consequences when we talk about such a funding system, what will happen to different schools. I will read the statements of one of the principals who speaks; "the experiences we have at our centre in the last four years, when we have joined the center of two small schools, are such that if we did not do so, these schools would no longer be." What does that mean? That means now you're telling schools that aren't designed at the center, that tomorrow they'll be gone. I come from one place where we have high school, which has 60 years of tradition in the chemical program and is in trouble. Are we telling this school that tomorrow she will be gone if we don't have a center that will be in Maribor?Oh, my God! But in Maribor, a chemical program, like tradition here, it's not. And there would be no more of this program in the Russians if there was no annual battle to keep this program alive. However, in the course of the renovation of the chemical programme, we were aware that the possibility of opening the selection was an integral part of this offer. And in the 4th year, we offered different education programmes to preserve, say, this programme, knowing that the professional staff can adequately support the implementation of these programmes. And of course, here now there are dilemmas - will only the number of participants in the educational process be the criterion for this criterion, will there be any other criteria here? Because, in my opinion, if we are talking about accessibility, about coherent regional development, then we can certainly understand the school as a core around which a lot of other things have happened, in less centered areas, let's say in the form of a centre. And here are the dilemmas, and here the principals have no unique message. They don't. And, of course, if the right ministry wanted to do what is right, if the Ministry wanted to do what is right, it would also have brought to the committee officials who have positions of good practice, and I am sure that Ptuj's colleagues have told us good practice, but I am sure that there are also arguments that talk about the consequences of bad practices, where there are no clear answers. And here is the content of our amendment, which speaks of not taking one step that could have very bad consequences in the future. The second part of this amendment speaks of the fact that we will no longer co-finance extended stay in the sixth grade. Before that, there was a minimum limit of 50 in 5 and 6, now I give in 5. 100% funding, and we're missing the sixth grade. I already asked in the discussion of the previous law: On the basis of what criteria does this decision exist? The explanation in the law is very simple, the state will therefore be a minor correction and the state will provide new means of extended stay in the 5th grade - 100% and in the 6th grade will no longer co-finance extended stay. And the argument for the applicant ends with this. Here, too, I checked a large number of schools, especially in the countryside, which talk about providing extended stay in the sixth grade and this becomes a burden for the congregations. What's gonna happen? The pressure of parents to maintain an extended stay in the 6th grade remains because the state will no longer co-finance it, and pressure will be exerted on the local community. This is already reflected in the first reactions to this text of this bill. You did not provide information that an extended stay in the 6th grade is no longer necessary. It's necessary, but you don't want to finance it, and you're transferring that burden to the local community. Because the pressure on the local community will continue. Suddenly, parents will not understand that in the sixth grade they have to fully cover extended stay. And so many words have been said here today, how for children, how we want them to feel best at school, and at the same time, at a significantly smaller amount that was discussed in the previous law, we are talking about stopping such co-financing in the sixth grade of primary school. I therefore suggest that the proposer reconsider whether his assessment is flat and does not reflect what is on the ground and what will happen on the ground. And for the benefit of our primary school students, in the 6th grade, let us be able to make this effort to ensure 100% funding of extended stay in the 6th grade as well. And this is also the proposal of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Again, I call again to the word of Ambassador Majdo Potrate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u198	Thank you. If I didn't understand enough why I responded to the message from the Ministry of Education and Sport with that shoe case, let me say it again. If I say that we do not agree with the suspension of the extended stay in the 6th grade, it is incorrect to reject my position by responding to the Ministry's response that 100% of the extended stay in the 5th grade is co-financed. I wasn't talking about 5th grade, I was talking about 6. And what I have to say again, if it were possible to take the invitation to a constructive debate for real, then it would not have happened, as my colleague Germić has just quoted. It is an eccentric underestimation of the textual understanding, when you offer us such explanations of the articles of the law as you have read in this article, to this amendment my colleague Germič read. This is directly underestimating and rude! If you have evidence of why an extended stay in the 6th grade should have been discontinued, then tell us which arguments to which analysis you are relying on. I don't know how you can say that you leave the world of parents, the autonomous decisions of the professional authorities at school, that they will also make organizational and programming decisions if you close the door to such things as this. By deleting your extended stay in the 6th grade, you have closed the possibility that at some school, however, you would decide to stay in the 6th grade because you would find that there is a need. If I recall correctly, the Director of Primary School and Kindergarten explained that there is no interest in extended stay in the 6th grade because children go to interesting activities and to foreign language courses to sports and I don't know where else. Yeah, some of these things are paying off. And all children do not have the opportunity to provide such a qualityly organized form of living time outside of regular schooling. And colleague Germič has warned you about what is happening in individual local environments. I don't know what sample you've been testing on. I have already challenged and warned you about this at the previous reading of the novel, which was also pointed out by colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš, that children are now as old as they were in the 5th grade due to early schooling in the 6th grade. I don't know what drove you so that when you share candy for free kindergarten, for a student diet, you can't leave some very urgent stuff behind. As far as I know the experts from other European systems who came to look at our experience, there was, among all or among the things that received undisputed praises, a full-day school or extended stay. And I don't know what led anyone, maybe some wrong assumption about it, the rest of which is the extension of being in the sixth grade to have to be terminated. The cost of this activity is not so great that we cannot manage it. And if we really wanted to get him wet, we would only have to put him in the marriage far before the elections, not as you are now some things after what my colleague Horvat said, after they found out how well the Minister of Finance was doing and the budget surplus showed up at the end of last year. These are the things that really stand and that point to where the dog is praying. So much for extended stay in sixth grade. However, I would like to mention that giving consent to certain decisions relating to the definition of standards and standards for financing is essential to me, because what is being pointed out by those who are familiar with the different financing models is that when funding is given to a participant, the interest is to get as many participants as possible into one class, and that the number of participants is held back from one year to the next year and the number is as high as possible, it is also quite clear what this means for the actual quality of implementation of the programme, but it is quite another issue. Knowledge is something we have heard before the President of the Government, some very important value. However, what knowledge is needed for society until 2020 for the European Union as a whole, but it will only be necessary to find out. Well, we probably won't think it's necessary to do something like this too fast, but still, things like this can be very effective for different high schools, and you haven't proved with anything that you've tried to introduce some things into different types of high school. No, no, no. There were only directors of three very large secondary schools on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u199	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite the Ambassador Anton Kokalj. Here you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The debate went very wide, although there were several amendments to the debate. Actually, you don't know where to go. I see this problem that way myself. There's not much left of this funding law. Unfortunately, I note that some colleagues who are very concerned about the quality and cost of schooling have begun to think about it a little too late. The 12-year government of one other political option has done enormous damage in this school, huge damage. Both in terms of quality and in terms of price. If we just look at primary school. How much unnecessary costs, how much unnecessary costs with a whole set of textbooks for a primary school where basic knowledge, work aids and completely wrong remuneration of teachers are involved. If we want to have quality, teachers should be rewarded regardless of what they do in the classroom, regardless of what they do outside the classroom. And once such a system is in place, it is extremely difficult to repair. And I understand the government now. At that time, the demographic hole had increased dramatically. And now to be here mentally, when, if you honestly calculate, the cost of financing or the cost of financing for a child in Slovenia has increased. The total cost or total contribution may have been reduced, but the demographic picture is falling rapidly. If we really want to do something in these categories that we are talking about, about quality, about price proportionality, then we need to be honest. Unfortunately, I note that in Slovenia there is still an education carrier of one ideology and that this matter is not released from the hands of certain political parties. And I say that this goes to the great harm of our children and our future generations and also to the detriment of the development of Slovenia. Two errors, as I said, are extremely, absolutely too expensive basic education for unnecessary things, with a quality teacher in primary school, properly rewarded, all textbooks and all work volumes can be replaced. The union, in these amendments, is supposed to give consent to the minister's acts. It also shows that the school system remains to extend one policy option. Unfortunately, our union has become an extension of some political parties. It would be very correct for the school union or for Mr Strukelj to establish a political party and continue his activities there. Instead of providing teachers with basic conditions and fighting for them after school, the union is fighting for a policy that is not really a matter of concern. Today we have examples of primary schools where teachers do not have their desk and their computer for some normal work, but I have never heard a union deal with this issue. Never. And one more word about the principal's role. Headmaster becomes manager. But this role was determined by the rule of another political option. The principals are no longer in charge of the pedagogical process. Tell me how many times the principal goes to class and listens to what teachers do in class; because he has to deal with finances. And I understand the Ministry of Education, including the Ministry of Finance. I think we are now in a situation where we need to stop running this ideology on the school system and adjust to any proposal proposed by the Government. We're not going anywhere with this. Then a marked movement of enrolment of children after primary school into high school programs, which appears to be a major mistake. Given some of the child's average skills and talents, I think the previous arrangement was much more natural. It provided children with a successful education in those programmes for which they had talents, while allowing those most able to continue in high school programmes and also in college and then to get a job for this profession. But now we are in a situation where we have a formal and extremely high education, people who are difficult to get a job, while we are extremely short of jobs in the field of service activities, for which we already have to import people in Slovenia from elsewhere. What's the point of that? But we can't read this to this government again. How the government should now resolve this mentality, which was established in Slovenia in the 12 years. In my own words, I will say that in the last 12 years we have introduced a system where we have indirectly told the children that some technical work is actually a shame that something is less valuable. And that's a big problem now, so I think it's the law. Whatever it is adopted, it will not significantly help to resolve this situation until we begin in this country, regardless of political conviction, to talk a little differently about our future. If we are to provide our children with a future, things will have to be a little different. It is clear that, as I mentioned earlier, because everyone wants to go to some high school programs, social programs, the level must be reduced because it has been established in the previous government system, in order to provide teachers with a job in particular. Let's be honest. A nine-year-old is also part of this program. The demographic picture has deteriorated, teachers have shown that there will be increasing excesses, and in this way we compensate for the problem, which in the long run is not solvable and is actually brought to the detriment of our children. Maybe there's just something else about the share of funding. This is not an argumentated debate. It is only a question of whether we will give every child in Slovenia the same amount of money from the budget and let parents and children decide for themselves where they will go to school. That's the only question. It is obvious that half of politics in Slovenia cannot accept so much democracy and pluralism. Unfortunately. Of course, it is purely misleading that 100% private education means a higher cost for the country. This, of course, means a lower cost for the country. But if we look at the results, if we look at serious analysis of how much parents pay in private schools, which are already 100% funded, according to the quality they get, it is worth having a child in a private school. Teacher's cadre, teacher's care is on a much higher level. Children are much more satisfied at school. That's why I find it criminal to drag this ideological half-time story through school still on. And I would ask my fellow Members and those who in no way allow our parents to have the same support from the country, if we are thinking a little differently about slowing down. As I said before, there isn't really much left of this marriage. It's hard to discuss. The only thing I would do about this union's consent is to politicize it, but everything else I think is rich content. Taking up protection in the 6th grade, I can also agree with this, only in view of the cost we have to give out of our pocket for all the other things that are prescribed and which are difficult to eliminate, but I think it is a very negligible cost. In the final stage, I hope that at least something will be left of this law at the end, that there will be at least a few initiatives for the next term, which I hope will, in this sense, be a little more plural, even in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u201	Comrade Kokalj, I sincerely hope that you, as president of the working body, are ever so kind and leave a general discussion when the subject is exclusively about the amendments. We're gonna open a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you. According to the experience, Friday afternoons are meant to discuss school legislation for the second time, and I know for sure now that on Friday, when concentration, patience, and something else, school legislation is cut short, and then every amendment tells everyone everything he thinks about things. But the thing is not so simple because there comes a respected colleague Kokalj from a party that has a State Secretary in the Ministry, who also has another official in the Ministry, and if this is the state of the spirit in this party in relation to education, then I am deeply concerned that there is some internal non-herence. It's about the fact that at the beginning the minister explained how very good we have a school, but now it was about hearing how everything in this school sucked, how teachers were paid too well, how expensive and how scandalous it was to say nothing criminally bad happened in the previous period. But there are international studies that say that it is for generations of students who are working according to curricula that are the result of changes in the previous decade to achieve good results. The minister boasted in such a way that he did not believe, the unions were satisfied, the teachers were satisfied, the parents and the students too. I think it's only once. And if I compare this picture from the beginning of this mandate, where a similar study has been misused, it has started a horrendous, reckless and irresponsible change in school legislation, that in fact all relevant comparative indicators of actual checks and comparisons of pupils' knowledge have been eliminated. At that time, the self-image of Slovenian pupils was found to be significantly higher than their actual qualifications. And what needs to be heard now is that our resistance to funding from the participant is the result of some ideological remnants I don't know for what time. Yes, but where did the intercultural dialogue leave you? Some will also have to survive, who do not think as the RCC thinks, but, as the mind may think, I have a Muslim or some Orthodox couple, but who think as I think. They'll live like that in the future, I hope so. And the school system must be open to as many participants as possible and must ensure quality. And I'm not a soul nurse when I'm talking about building on the quality of the school system. When we heard about lifelong learning, about the extended time that individuals are supposed to keep within regular youth education, we talk about ten years of regular education, some about 12 years of compulsory education, and here we hear how we are spreading money for some non-digestion such as school. I wonder what it would be like to see all these debates if those who go so far in their teachers' salaries had the same level of education themselves and if they were women's sex. In the National Assembly, I have heard so many readings on the account of overpaid teachers, especially principals, that it is inappropriate. And I would expect representatives of the Ministry to protect teachers and teachers. I think they're doing well, but it's rare to hear that one of the Ministry's representatives says something good at the expense of the performers, especially those who represent any other professional interests. This is straight, I'm going to say, yes, it's scandalous that we bark into the moon whenever we want to convince you that it's good to ever have expert analysis and vision for any change.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you listened to me, so you noticed what I was saying. Obviously, you don't listen to others when they're talking about everything. It wasn't just me talking about all things, but they certainly touched the content of this law. Mrs Tratati would only say that, for intercultural dialogue it takes dialogue, that is to say, listening and not twisting the words of what you are in dialogue with. Of course, I didn't stand up for quality education, I didn't talk about overpaid teachers, and so on, I didn't talk about it. But I was talking about mistakes that were made and that are hard to fix. And I encouraged you to start talking about this and to listen to this option, which for 50 years has not been able to give an opinion, and we also have some children in school, as well as some teaching experience, and we also know something about how things work. That is all I wanted to say, and I wanted to say, what bothers me about the current school system, that I support the Government in its efforts to fix something, and I think we will need at least one or two more mandates to get things into some normal European situation. For me, however, there are two criteria for quality education: the first is a quality teacher, which is a condition that quality education even exists and that there is an urgent need for more work and assistance and conditions, along with pay. But to someone who does well, to be paid well, to someone who does not do well, there is no need to reward him for going to conferences around and therefore having a higher salary than that teacher who works well in class. Another is the employability of our young people. I think the quality of education is reflected in this, including the school system. That's what I'm trying to say is that I don't think the former government has had the happiest hand here in the last ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u205	My colleague Kokalj, everything nice and well, I believe that the good part of Slovenia is pleased that you have spoken, but I also have to follow the rules of procedure around and when the debate is about the amendment, it means only the work of the law, not the whole law, of course I asked you kindly if you allow such a breadth to guide your working body, nothing else. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we are talking about a very important amendment, so we are talking about the funding system that the Government is advocating after the participant, and we are proposing to set up a funding system in education, in the educational sphere, in order to determine the total amount of funding for each school. And certainly the way and the funding system affect quality. In the introduction, the Minister made it clear that we do not want the quality of the school to be a one-day fly. And the past shows that this was not the case, so in the past the quality was not the fly of the day, which shows us the international comparisons with which he operated today in the introduction, so the Minister himself spoke. The results speak of quality and this quality is at a high level of envy. Quality according to price, this is always a very important question. And I think we share here that the quality of Slovenian teacher, the quality of Slovenian principals, is very important also reflected in the quality of our students. Of course, I can't agree to such a simple assessment here, Comrade Kokalj, when you spent it here today. I can't use expressions that fly through my head to evaluate your statement. But say today that a good teacher doesn't need textbooks, not work volumes, then I wonder what education system we can talk about today. You know, a very important professional question that teachers face every day is how to teach young people how to learn. Very important. If we are talking about lifelong learning today, this is an extremely important issue. How to teach him how to learn. And access to literature and the search for literature is one of the very important ingredients. And if you're saying we don't need textbooks if we don't need work volumes, in this case, how to get a man, a young man, to handle literature. Then there's a little detail to be made out. You're talking about the fact that the principals no longer run the teaching process and that the principals are just managers. I'd like to ask you if you've ever looked at school's annual work plans. Have you looked at the annual work plans and what should the annual work plan include? And the principal doesn't go to class! Hospitals are one of the very important components of the annual work plan, where the director has to prescribe a teacher monitoring system.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u207	My friend Germich. We're in the framework of the amendments. Please, if you'll hold on to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u208	Mr Vice-President, we are talking about the funding system in education. And together, we are united that this has a very important impact on quality. My colleague Kokalj, as a coalition MP, says quality according to price. And if that's the case, then this amendment is directly linked to it. And all I'm talking about is what dimension we're going to have, how we're going to finance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u209	Look, we can also talk about bus transport. Please, let's hold on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u210	Mr Vice-President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u211	That the ministry will know what individual Members want, let's make our work easier. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u212	Look, Mr. Vice President. I understand that you're economists after education, but maybe you weren't so deeply attached to the school issue, so maybe you should try to understand that I'm talking about essential things. We're talking about having a child in a private school. See, Mr Vice-President, such a statement is made here today by Slovenian parents. It's worth having a baby in a private school. What do we tell teachers, principals, parents, and children who have their children in the public education system? What are we telling them? Isn't it an interesting experience I can tell you firsthand? Teachers who teach at high school, Ruše High School, also teach at the school in Maribor because they complement their programs. Do you think these teachers work in these two schools in a different way? [[No, no, ……]] Do you think the quality of their work at one school is different, given that it is public and private, and that these teachers have a different attitude toward these children? I hope, with my discussion, I will not cause any harm in making such comparisons at some school tomorrow. But I know that they are a quality teacher and that's why they were invited to the Maribor High School because they work quality, quality and learn, they know their business. And today, talking about having a child in a private school is worth it, I think it's a terrible injustice for all those teachers, students who are involved in the public education system. And to say that, for example, we have established a nine-year-old just so that teachers have jobs, and then I really don't know how we accept our expertise and how we accept our knowledge of how children should be involved in educational processes. You know, it's so simple to talk about such important issues, but it's not. And it is right that we exchange different opinions here that the Slovenian public would not create the feeling that Slovenian education and the Slovenian education system are indeed a mistake of the past twelve years and that today the line must be drawn, with the Minister himself saying, no, that is not the case. The quality of the 12 years has proved to be on the criteria of international comparisons and we do not want it to be a one-day fly. And if we really don't want to do that, think about it when you're backing up such inconceivable proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u213	The fact that you broke the rules of procedure, you probably know that. But given that it is likely that any future Member, if you wanted to have a general discussion again and the funding associated with the transport of children to school, the transport of the elderly to old homes, holds, we can connect everything, Comrade Germič. But it wasn't right of you. According to my assessment, you went to one of the lower levels that was in this National Assembly. Thank you. Word [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Anybody else want to discuss this? [[...]] Secretary of State, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, the President. Dear Members and Members. Perhaps one of the last explanations, and yet we will probably stay with regard to the views on financing and quality, perhaps slightly each on its own. On the part of the Government, of course, we support each debate, different views and arguments that explain what are those decisions that bring better quality, or that we will be more direct - greater satisfaction and knowledge of our students. We know for ourselves that we will not open the theory. The new education systems aim to ensure that every student in the school system can have the skills and skills that enable him to live a quality life within such a society as he is today. And if we're talking about funding, we need to say first that the goal is not financing, but that the goal is actually what I said that every student can acquire knowledge and competence. The new way of funding has enabled us to renovate our programmes after new starting points. These programs are today designed modularly, credit, so they are open flexible and can actually adapt to each individual student. If I give a simple example of someone writing at an electrical school and working there modules that give him competence in the field of electrical engineering, in that open part of the module can be enrolled or can perform a certain module at an economic school because he wants to be an entrepreneur in the future. Such a way of choosing when actual content follows a future student's vision of what it wants to become in life must in fact change its way of funding. In fact, the old method of department funding was a static way that did not allow such a way of programs, modular and credit, to actually be introduced into the school system itself. Therefore, the ideas of the founders who set up these starting points in 2000 for both the renovation of programmes and the new way of funding according to different practices in European countries have matured in the Slovenian space in the 8 years. Today, 70% of the students are included in this system. This system actually works in practice already. Question whether evaluation or monitoring of this system has been carried out. Two institutions, the Centre for Vocational Education and the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, have evaluated this system in our country. The evaluations have shown more positive than negative that we will not hide that there are no certain problems, that there is such a great system that it works without problems. There was also criticism as to whether small schools would fail because of this system. I think that the principals, as well as the practice of schools in Muta and Metlika, have shown that it is precisely because of this system that these two schools still exist today. And what is not irrelevant, even because they are connected to the center, is greater security in the employment itself or in the maintenance of jobs with professors or teachers. This means that, in fact, this system maintains that these schools remain in those places and that students thus have greater access to these programmes. There is another truth, however, that a child is growing smaller and that a certain school, even with a 60, 100 or a larger tradition, must sometimes change the program and adapt to the needs of the region and to the place within which it exists. We can tell. Metlik changed the program, too. First of all, I think that - if the Director fixes me - it is textile, today it is educational and so on. The school cannot only stand, but it must actually respond, in particular to secondary and vocational schools, to the needs of the region's place and employability. And that's what's actually happening. It may also not be important to say that since the beginning of this new way of financing and introducing new programmes, trade unions have actually been involved. From the first day to today they are in groups where the price is calculated for each programme. Those who work in practice know that we have about 120 programmes and each programme is particularly valuable in terms of complexity, the technology that students need to use. This means that we have different calculations for individual programmes. Instead of always listening to the critics, teachers and economists who worked on these programmes, because we worked with teachers in practice and with principals in practice, we should probably praise here today for the eight-year effort and the effort to prepare such a difficult new way of financing, including the new way of working in schools that we will now introduce with these new programmes. That is why we would expect to hear a praiseworthy word. Maybe another word about who deserves to have a high-quality education. As you know, we're with this government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u215	Madam Secretary of State, you, too, are considered a Member of Parliament before you, and we stick exclusively to the amendment. Whoever deserves quality education is not the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u216	Maybe just about Mofas, about quality. Can I tell?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u217	Here, stick to the content of the three amendments currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u218	Don't worry. It was about quality and also about whether this new way will actually make quality worse. I must say that the Council for Vocational Education has also adopted quality indicators which schools must take into account and monitor in their work. To conclude, the Minister of Education has repeatedly said in his statements that those who are deserving of being able to say that we have a good and quality school are, above all, teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Can we go to the 26th and the second amendments? Thank you very much. We conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 24, in conjunction with Articles 37, 31 and 26(1), (3) and (4). I am opening the debate in conjunction with the amendment to Article 26 under order number 2. The candidates are the Social Democrats' Group, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the Zares Group and the Lipa Group of Members. I'm opening the application procedure. There is no desire to discuss, so we are moving on to Article 27. The candidates are the Group of Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, Lipa and the Zares Group of Members. Does anyone want to discuss it in connection with Article 27? [[No, no, ……]] Then we turn to the debate on Article 36. Article 36 is proposed by the Lipa Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the procedure. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the Ministry, I believe that your move was well-intentioned, but sometimes it would be good to listen to some well-intentioned warning from the opposition, which is more professionally prepared than the content of the proposal being prepared or offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If you don't believe me, allow only one part, and I'll ask you for an answer. However, in the context of your addition, which you have prepared, I believe that on the basis of the warnings we have given to the Lipa Group in the framework of the draft law that we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure, you have, unfortunately, rejected it as unjustifiable to have a further debate in Parliament. As part of your supplement, you wrote down, in that part that speaks of the competence of the inspection service within the framework of the school, in order to give the worker suspension. Here in this article you have only written down, and I will quote: "The sentence of the police's indictment will also be sent to the education inspectorate." You know, on the basis of the Criminal Procedure Act, there are no complaints and not just the police. I believe you know that a criminal charge can also be brought before a court or a state prosecutor. Please, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We still have an open debate on Article 36. Anybody else want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Again? Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u222	Thank you very much. However, I expected to receive an answer from the Ministry, because I consider that the content of the article, as you suggest, is incomplete. It is also incomplete because inspection services are not authorised under the Inspection Services Act. That is what the Madam Secretary of State said at the very meeting of the mother's working body. If, on the basis of the existing legislation of the inspection service, they had the opportunity to use the suspension in the case of a person charged with the offence of sexual inviolability, then the Ministry should have reacted in the past in cases that have taken place in our country. But as I'm saying, once again, I'm giving you a warning, criminal charges are not only brought before the police, they're being filed in court, even in the prosecution. And this work or this segment does not include a government proposal for a law, so I say it is imperfect or bad. I would like to ask you, distinguished representatives, once again to warn you, the amendment that we have drafted in the context of the Lip Group of Members, the amendment, which is this article, the so-called anti-pedophilic article, has been significantly more appropriate in terms of child protection. And this amendment, which we have prepared for Article 36, is prepared in cooperation with both the legal profession and the Ombudsman for access to information of a public nature. It is said that it takes into account, if you want, on the one hand, the whole legal aspect, it is not in conflict with existing Slovenian legislation, but also takes into account the protection of personal data, to which some government representatives have so often been alerted when we are talking about perpetrators of crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Will the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, give an opinion in connection with the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u224	I would just say that the proposal contained in the law is in line with the judiciary and also with the new criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u225	Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u226	I understand already, Madam Secretary of State, but you argued about the same story when your bill was proposed for first reading, but this article was later completed, although the explanation was similar to today's explanation. I ask: Is the content of this article also consistent with the Criminal Procedure Act? I'm guessing not. Read the 147th article, which tells us who all or what authority a criminal charge may be brought in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I also conclude this debate in conjunction with Article 36. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. That's 6:20. Thank you very much. That's what I'm breaking up with. I'm adjourning the assembly session, which we're going to continue, as we say, at 6:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u228	Dear Members, please take your seats and calm down. We're moving on to the meeting. We continue with the end of the 9th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the subsidisation of diet. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 3. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same applicants to Article 7 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 6. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 7. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. The draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Zares and Lipa to Article 24. The amendment is related to amendments to Articles 1, 3, and 4, paragraphs 37 and 41. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendments of the same applicants to that Article shall be irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u229	Mr. President, excuse me, 15 seconds. Comrade Germič, I have intervened unjustifiably to you in the handling of this point, so I now apologize to you from this place.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u230	Thank you. Is there any other desire to explain? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Lipa and Zares to Article 26, under Article 2, the other three are irrelevant due to the rejection of the previous amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD, LDS, Lipa and Really to Article 27. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 36 of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment to Article 37 is irrelevant. The amendment to Article 41 is also irrelevant. Since the amendments to the amended draft law were not adopted at second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 60 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 14. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Tuesday, 1 April 2008, at 9 a.m. Have a nice weekend.
