ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests, distinguished Excellency! Please take your seats. [[A toast.]] I ask the President of the National Assembly, Mr Frances Tsukati, to address the Members. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u2	Dear Members, distinguished Members, high guests! "Panta rhei" has already been identified in ancient Greece by the philosopher Heraklit - everything changes, everything changes. The National Assembly, which will be established today, is also a new one again. And there is an opportunity for us to reconsider our mission, our task, which was entrusted to us. We have many new faces, new desires, new enthusiasm, new will. That's good. And as always everywhere, this task, which has been entrusted to us, must be fulfilled if we are to be content. Above all, we will also be able to see and hear in this mandate the problems and hardships of the people we will decide on; that we will be able to respect everything, regardless of what visual options they belong to; respect their wishes, their dreams, their desires for humane, just, good happy society. This desire or our commission to respect all people will first show respect for ourselves, our colleagues and our colleagues within this hall; respect for all, regardless of which party they belong to. And of course, as every beginning is beautiful, full of optimism, let this also be a start and a step for the better, so that we can finally say in this mandate: we have done something good for this country, for its citizens. So, respectable fellows, fellows! I wish you and all of us that in this mandate we will truly fulfil our task and will also be satisfied with ourselves, with our work, then the citizens will also be pleased. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u3	To the President of the National Assembly, I thank Mr Tsukati very much for his words! We begin the 1st meeting of the Assembly, convened by the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Victory Jelinčič noble and Mr Janez Janša. The meeting was attended by Mr. Janez Srebot, Deputy President of the National Election Commission Mr. Miroslav Pretnar, Secretary of the State Election Commission Mr. Marko Golobič, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were informed. High guests also attend the sessions: Mr Blaž Kavčič, President of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Jože Tratnik, President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Franc Testen, President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Igor Šoltes, President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, Ombudsman, Mr Milan Kučan, former President of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the diplomatic assembly and members of the Cabinet of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone! [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Before we proceed with our work, I ask Members and Members of Parliament, who have not notified their presence to the House of Assembly and who have issued an election certificate to do so here at the President's table. I will be assisted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mr Mag. Mr Lovro Lončar and Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Plevelj. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and received by letter of 8 September 2016. Ten. 2008 The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities have set out the following draft agenda: 1. Appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Electoral Commission. 2. Confirmation of the terms of office of Members. 3. Elections of the President of the National Assembly. 4. Elections of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received a motion to withdraw from each point. We move on the proposal to expand the agenda. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and the Members of the national communities shall propose to the assembly that the agenda be extended by means of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on European Union Affairs. You've received the extension proposal on the bench. I propose that we hold the presentations for both proposals for acts together and that we vote separately on an individual proposal for enlargement. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. I ask all present Members and Members to insert a card into the voting apparatus and check their operation. There must be an orange light on the right side. I am putting to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda by means of a motion for a decree establishing and completing the tasks of the Committee on European Union Affairs. We vote, the vote is on. There are 85 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The proposal for a decree will be considered by the assembly as item 5 of the agenda. I am voting on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on European Union Affairs. We vote, the vote is on. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The proposal for a decision will be considered by the assembly as the 6th item of the agenda. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to 8.10.2008 and by both adopted amendments, and we will vote on this. We vote, the vote is on. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the first meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to one. It is for the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Manata-Volume Commission. In accordance with Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and the Members of the national communities at the meeting on 8 October 2008 decided that the post of President of the Commission shall belong to the Group of the Social Democrats and that the post of Vice-President of the Commission shall be to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The interim leader of the Social Democrats Group announced that Mr Dusan Kumr was proposed as chairman of the Commission and that the interim leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group proposed Mr Daniel Krivac as Vice-President. You have received a motion for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Commission on Elections. I am informed that no one will discuss this on behalf of the groups of Members, so I am putting an end to the presentation. Since there are no more debaters, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, all in favor, none in favour. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On the basis of the decision taken on the number of seats on the Commission belonging to the individual group of Members and Members of the National Communities, the temporary heads of delegations and Members of the National Communities have communicated the names of Members, Members and Members of the Commission. Thus, the 17-member membership of the Mandate-voluntary Commission is as follows: Mr Dusan Kumer, President, Social Democrats' Group of Members; Mr Daniel Krivec, Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Vice-President. The members of the Commission are: Mrs Melita Župevc, Mr Miran Potrč, Mr Aleksander Ravikar and Mr Bojan Kontic. From the SDS Group: Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Mr. Marjan Bezjak, Mr. Rado Likar. From the Zares Group - Mr Villa Trofenik's new policy and Mr Ivo Vajgl. From the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Willi Rezman. From the SNS Group of Members, Mr Silven Majhenič. Mr Jakob Preseknik from the SLS Group. From the LDS Group of Members, Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic. Mr Läszlö Göncz from the delegational group of nationalities. I hereby conclude this agenda item. For the preparation of the 2nd item of the agenda, the Mandate-Volution Commission shall meet immediately in the large lounge. Members of the committee, please take with you the material you received on the bench in connection with item 2 of the agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting. The assembly will continue its work at 11.15 a.m. At 11:15 a.m., we continue the meeting of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u4	We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We're moving to 2. It's the day's turn, confirmation of the deputies' menats. You received a report from the Commission on Elections of the State on the bench. I note that, until the beginning of the meeting, no complaints were lodged with the candidates or representatives of the lists. I ask Mr Dusan Kumr, President of the Commission for his election, to submit a report to the Commission. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, distinguished representatives of the National Election Commission, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of a review of the State Election Commission report and of the electoral certificates submitted, the Mandate-Villary Commission found that none of the 90 mandates sent were disputed. On the basis of that and in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Council of State proposes that, pursuant to Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be adopted: The terms of office of all Members and Members of the National Assembly elected at the elections on 21 September 2008 shall be confirmed by the list of elected candidates and candidates for Members and Members, which shall form an integral part of the report of the Commission. The mandate-holder committee proposes to the National Assembly to take note of the following after the confirmation of the mandates sent. According to the provisions of Article 2 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, the function of Member in the European Parliament and Member in the National Assembly are not compatible. Taking into account the above-mentioned Mandate-Election Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following conclusion: With the confirmation of the Member's mandate in the National Assembly of Member Borut Pahor, who is now a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, there is a reason for the termination of his term of office in the European Parliament, both of which are not compatible under Article 2 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. On that finding, the National Assembly shall request the State Election Commission to inform the National Assembly, on the basis of a report on the outcome of the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on 13 June 2004, of the remainder of the term of office, which shall become a Member or Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament instead of a Member of Borut Pahor, who has been confirmed by the National Assembly as a Member of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the report of the Mandate-Volution Commission. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The only one who applied on behalf of the Group of Members is Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u7	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting. First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of the President of the Government and of Mr Janez Janša, the elected Member, because he is at the European Council. I congratulate newly elected colleagues and colleagues who have received sufficient support for the election and thus to serve as a responsible Member. I won't say anything new if I say that we have an unusual electoral system when one gets a gold medal for the fourth or even lower town in the county, while the other, despite winning, only gets a running consolation prize. But that's how it is. They don't always win the best. On behalf of the Group, I would also like to thank all Members of Parliament, the President of the Government, ministers and officials for the quality of their work in the coming mandate, which allowed Slovenia to become very strongly established on the European political scene. Let me remind you: as the first new member, we have received the euro, we have entered Schengen and, as the first new member, we have successfully presided over the European Union, although the majority of the opposition has withdrawn support from the government and coalition during the presidency. Economic indicators are also excellent, the best so far. Economic growth, which is the foundation of prosperity, is high, it is extremely important to increase employment, thus reducing unemployment and social exclusion and reducing the number of citizens living below the poverty line. This mandate shall be adopted by the State in good condition, with good results, indicators and trends. We have never been closer to the average of Europe's development, and the development gap is the least so far. The elections brought about changes, the electorate and the electorate decided to make a different choice. However, I would like once again to point out that in some, especially the city voters, the 3rd and 4th elections were held in a different manner than the law provides. As many as 54,000 voters did not sign the electoral lists, confirming that they were at the polls and that they were voting. This allowed the possibility that someone else would have made a decision for them or for them. It is only the signature of the electorate that prevents such abuses to the greatest extent. Where signatures are missing, abuses are likely to be made more possible. Following this violation, some voters in Ljubljana appeared and it is difficult to believe that they were the most uninformed members of the election committees in Ljubljana. There is a possibility that some electoral committees may have influenced electoral participation and electoral results this time, but they should only play the role of an independent and correct voter. We complained in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and some others complained. It is unacceptable that some committees, laws and elections have taken their own hands and carried them out in their own way. Both Commissions rejected the complaint by 2:2, and on both occasions decided on the vote of the President of the Electoral Commission, who must be a judge by law. Thus, in both cases, the judge decided that the violation of the law was lawful, and this was a bad message from those elections. We did not continue to complain in the SDS because, despite any other decision, the next instance would not change anything important or decisive. We could - even if we got a Member or two more - this would only be a delayed time to establish a new authority and Slovenia would be wasting only time and pace. That's not what we wanted. On the contrary, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want the new power to be formed as soon as possible and to assume as soon as possible all the responsibilities that this mandate will bring. However, there is a need for serious reflection on the completion of electoral legislation so that we no longer witness such creative interpretation and application of law and law in the most important decisions of citizens or electors and voters. We will confirm the mandates of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u8	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since there have been no MEPs reported to the debate, we are coming to a decision. It follows from the Commission's communication that there are no contested mandates. That is why I am putting to the vote the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in full and therefore we are voting together on the approval of all 90 seats of Members and Members. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present, for all, against none. [[86 for.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has been fully adopted and all 90 mandates of Members and Members have been confirmed. I congratulate the elected Members and Members, and wish them much success in their work. As regards this item of the agenda, the assembly also took note of the following conclusion: With the confirmation of the parliamentary mandate in the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor, who is now a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, there is a reason for the termination of his term of office in the European Parliament, both of which are based on Article 2 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 40/04-UPB-1]] They're not compatible. On the basis of that conclusion, we will ask the State Election Commission to inform the National Assembly, which will become a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on 13 June 2004 on the basis of the report on the outcome of the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament for the remainder of the term of office, a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament instead of a Member from Borut Pahor, who has been confirmed by the National Assembly as a Member of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. It's the day's work, the love of the president of the national council. At that time, we received only one proposal from the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Gregor Golobic, Bojan Kontic, Katarina Kresal and France Žnidaršič. I'm asking if anyone else would like to make a proposal. [[No, no, ……]] Then allow me to order a 10-minute recess so that you can get a proposal for the President of the National Assembly with all the signatures on the bench, as well as a possible consultation. I'm also informing you that the candidate for President of the National Assembly is on the list we received, Dr. Pavel Gantar. I'm adjourning the session of the assembly, which will be resumed at 11.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u9	I ask the honourable Members and Members to take their seats. We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to a closed third point, which is the election of the President of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a proposal for a candidate for the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Gantar, signed by a group of 49 Members with first-signed Gregor Golobic, Bojan Kontic, Katarina Kresal and France Žnidaršič. Does the representative of the proposer of the application wish to further explain his proposal? Here you go, Mr. Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, High Council, distinguished guests! Allow me to begin by congratulating all Members and Members of Parliament on their confirmed term of office, on their election to the National Assembly, including the two missing. I wish this assembly a successful work in this mandate. It is an honour to have the opportunity to address the newly elected call of the National Assembly at a moment which is solemn and important, as it establishes a legislative branch of power for the next four years. As temporary leader of the Zares Group, I have a particularly pleasant task of presenting and substantiating our decision to propose our colleague Paul Gantar as President of the National Assembly. Dr. Pavel Gantar, a spatial urban sociologist and professor, theorist and researcher, former columnist and civil society movement minister in several governments, a prominent opposition MP, is a well-known and established political name. Paul Gantard is characterized by freedom of thought, honesty, and special worldview openness. He's a liberal with a conscience. As well as strong and clear political principles, he is always ready to question his own political views and views, susceptible to dialogue, inclined to seek fast points, rather than stressing differences, with those that do not come from the same worldview horizon. Its long-standing political biography is rich, always inspired by activism and has received special attention to rumblings and events in the civil or public sphere. The history of the Slovenian struggle for democracy, respect for human rights and civil liberties cannot go beyond its role. Paul Gantar was a representative of an important liberal circle within the new social movements that marked the 1980 ’ s. At that time he engaged as President of the influential ŠKUC - Forum, with his unforgivable and principled attitude of the defender of human rights and the urgent processes of democratisation of political life both in Slovenia and in the former common country, and he articulated as a founding member of the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and as a member of its operational body, a college. It is also particularly distinguished by the fact that even later, when he became an exposed member of the official and formal political circle, he was able to maintain close ties with civil society and remained a clear advocate of liberal democratic political principles, freedom of individuals or individuals, open policies and responsive governments, tolerant and multicultural societies, in which he has every opportunity and right to participate in and co-create public affairs. Since 1994, he has been actively involved in client policy and has taken over the management of demanding ministries - for the environment and space and subsequently for the information society. Throughout this work, it has established itself as a policy of broad horizons. His restless spirit is and still drives him to explore and co-form new political concepts, to monitor what problems modern times pose to politics and the public, and to co-create them. As opposition MPs in the last term, Pavel Gantar celebrated not only the substantively solid and convincing parliamentary debates but also often after self-ironic, wicked, but never banal interventions. He was also able to ensure that the sometimes tense atmosphere was dispersed in the parliamentary halls, and he was the one who could always be determined, without any doubt and without any miscalculation, to defend the honour of the Slovenian Parliament, its members and members, regardless of which parliamentary groups they came from, in all cases when there were unacceptable instances of impatient or even exceptional hostile speech. His responsible and difficult work as Chairman of the demanding Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in the last term has confirmed that Pavel Gantar can and can patiently and consistently monitor the course of events with extremely sensitive political and state implications. However, with the conclusion of the Commission's work, it showed that the truth escapes the exclusive possession of a party's saying and that a broader political consensus can also be reached in acute situations. With his rich political experience, his personal credibility and responsible attitude toward the highest function of the legislative branch of government, Dr. Paul Gantar will unquestionably contribute to the consolidation of the reputation of the National Assembly. Through its open approach to politics and public life, its awareness of the seriousness of global and Slovenian challenges, as well as its work, it will strengthen an indispensable active dialogue and an in-depth partnership between [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the current policy, the general and professional public and civil society. [[...]] Above all, he will be able to be the President of all Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the conclusions and statements of the first-signed candidate, Dr Pavel Gantar, that he is suitable for the presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we have also signed the proposal that we are offering today as the best choice for the esteemed assembly. Despite the provision of a secret vote, I predict the support of MEPs and members of the Social Democrats. We have repeatedly drawn attention to the role and importance of the legislative body. Legislative competence is the fundamental function of the representative body, of course in addition to the electoral and supervisory function. We drew attention to the unacceptable practice when the National Assembly became the Government's extended deadline, we witnessed a lack of understanding of the system of brakes and balances based on the rule that the authorities performing the basic functions of state authority are relatively independent and independent of other authorities in their operations, which means that none of them can prevail over the other; this does not mean that these authorities do not cooperate with each other. Our efforts go in the direction of restoring the role that the National Assembly plays in constitutional order. In the parliamentary process, we certainly expect more hearing for Members and Members' wishes for a new added value. The final product in the form and content of the adopted law must reflect the sum of the efforts of all those who are willing to participate in the process of production and adoption. The National Assembly is the temple of democracy, where different opinions should continue to be faced, and let us not forget the appropriate level of dialogue. We want Social Democrats and Democrats to contribute to this new leadership of the National Assembly, which we will elect today. Consistency of the electoral result could mean that the leading of the legislative body would be taken over by a candidate or candidate from the type of party that obtained the highest votes in the elections. The decision of the Social Democrats is that it is not good for the President of the National Assembly and the Government to come from the same party. This is the first step towards changing the practice of the past mandate. Dr. Pavel Gantar is a candidate who has gone through a difficult path in which he has gained important experience that he will be able to use in carrying out one of the most important tasks in the country. We are confident that he will also accept with favor the wishes of the future opposition, for we have repeatedly sought suitable solutions in the opposition, but unfortunately we have been rejected too many times. As I have predicted, the Group of Social Democrats will vote in favour of the proposed candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u14	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. The election of the President of the National Assembly is the first important step in the creation of a new power. By rank, this is the second most important function in the country, immediately after the President of the Republic, and replaces it in the event of absence or detention. Nevertheless, there was no special enthusiasm for the presidency of the National Assembly for the transition troika. Even more. In particular, the three largest parties have lost weight and have been dispossessed by each other. Mrs. Golobič, for example, was not interested at all. By evading and not interested in the presidency of the National Assembly, you have shown that you have a demeaning attitude towards the House of Democracy, and thus you have also indicated what role and attitude will play towards the National Assembly in this mandate. The presidents of the parties of the left-wing troika have taken this candidature procedure very awkwardly. Before the elections, you have also repeatedly stressed that the most important expertise will be the candidates, not their political affiliation. Several times it has been heard from your mouth who would be the most professionally competent as President of the National Assembly, but today this is not a candidate for this function. The expertise served only by reciting before the elections, and now you are doing much differently. The reality has now come to light and quotas are important for the individual parties of the future coalition. Some renounce the functions of the President of the National Assembly, although they may have appropriate candidates, others avoid because they want more words in the specific management of money, thus giving more emphasis to executive functions. The balance between the legislative, executive and other authorities will be no longer, as the new coalition, at least thus, shows, will significantly shift the burden to the executive power and the National Assembly will probably only become the obedient tool of other branches or centres, which will be here in the National Assembly only to seek cover for their decisions. If the announcement by the media that the future government will have two superministers, two co-ordinators or two mussels, then this claim can also be held back. For SD, LDS and Indeed, women or so-called sex quotas are a very prominent topic. It was heard days ago that half of the women would be proposed for important positions. The parliamentary majority will, although it has a number of strong women's team in the National Assembly and will most likely get three leadership seats in the National Assembly, the women will be completely surrounded and the leadership of the National Assembly will appear to be entirely male. One more thing! All the Presidents of the National Assembly so far were elected to the National Assembly with a high percentage in their districts. The last three won and received more than 30% of the support in their districts. Janez Podobnik, almost 40%, Borut Pahor, more than 33% and France Tsukati more than 38%. The candidate, Dr. Gantar, did not receive such support, he received only slightly more than 12% and was in his third district. Comrade Dr. Gantar, who you decided to run for President of the National Assembly, we know and respect him, he was already a minister, he was an MP, so he is a politician with a "long kilometer". I can say that we have repeatedly disagreed with his views or suggestions, but this is nothing special or unusual, but we are members of different parties and we advocate various programmes and solutions. However, we expect the new President of the National Assembly to measure all developments in the National Assembly with the same vats and that he will have before him that the National Assembly is only significantly larger and more diverse than the coalition. Although the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group did not adopt the position or definition of voting for the President of the National Assembly, each member will vote at his own discretion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u15	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u16	I would like to ask, Mr President, to ensure that I am not disturbed by a colleague from the SD Group during the onset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Matej Lahovnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares-New Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests on the balcony! Today is, in a way, a holiday of democracy. The people spoke and we could only confirm what the people had decided. I'm sure it's hard for some people. I myself have once participated in some government that lost in the elections, and I have faced the decision that it was. That's why I understand that some people find it difficult. And it is obvious that the next mandate will also be burdened with this, as the predecessor has shown in his own way. Therefore, it will certainly not be possible in the National Assembly, in the National Assembly it will be important that there is someone at his head who can respect different positions, someone who can also coordinate these positions and who adheres to fundamental principles in his work, such as the right of minorities, such as freedom of speech, as is the principle that different opinions are the ones that bring us the best solutions. We have indeed sought such a man in the Group of Members, and we have no difficulty in determining the right one, in our view, the most suitable candidate for running the National Assembly, Dr Ganttar. In his entire life, Dr. Gantar proved that he respected liberal values, even when it was not self-evident and especially then, not only as a columnist of Youth in the 1980s, when many of us read his columns with pleasure, even when he was a founding member of the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights, a member of the narrowest college, even with later work in the National Assembly, when he was never offensive when he always showed that he was able to respect the interlocutor and when he was among those Members who even listened to the interlocutors. In politics, it is often a problem to be too aware that we have one pair of ears and one mouth for more listening and less talking. This is probably a disease after the very few of us who are in this hall. Dr. Gantar certainly belongs to those who can always listen to different opinions, who can also take that opinion into account and appreciate it. That is why we have also considered in the Group of Members, and we believe that it is the best candidate to run this public forum, which must be restored to the city it deserves in Slovenian society. The National Assembly must not and cannot only be the executive body of the Government, but its role and place in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is clearly recorded. Therefore, we are convinced that at his head a person who, by his personal qualities with his credibility as well as his activities, must be represented by the values that, in our view, are most important in order for the National Assembly to become the temple of democracy again in the true sense of the word. In the Group of Members, we really believe that Dr. Gantar is very suitable, the best candidate for the President of the National Assembly. But I would also like to explain something; there have been a lot of crowds of speakers about how easy it would be for someone to step down as the president of the National Assembly, what the human resources combination should be and so on. It is very easy and very questionable, of course, if an individual political group or individual decides to act immediately. If a function is serious and responsible, then serious and responsible people also take time to reflect. Political groups also need to take time to consider identifying and identifying who is the most suitable candidate for a particular place, which is very important. We have also done so, and we have been very happy in the Group of Messengers, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Many Members or Members who are not likely to be part of the coalition also express great support and satisfaction with this proposal. [[...]] We are therefore convinced that this is the best candidate and we also invite all other Members and Members to support our assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. Once again, on my side, congratulations on your election to the National Assembly. Respectable assembly as a whole and honored guests! Dr. Pavel Gantar is no doubt a person who deserves the function for which he is proposed. It is not necessary to repeat its high, human, professional qualities in its functions as Minister, Member of the National Assembly and in previous jobs. As a result, our Group has no problem in uniting its support - regardless of the fact that this is a secret vote. In doing so, I would like to say that our Group does not believe that the number of votes is the number of criteria which, in any context or in any way, could affect the fulfilment of an obligation when you take up a responsible job. The position of President of the National Assembly is one of the most difficult in Parliament. It bears a great degree of responsibility, a great deal of time, a great deal of effort, a great deal of ability to coordinate different views, opinions and appetites in the debates, and we believe that Dr. Pavel Gantar will justify his election and will therefore be gladly supported by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished visitors. The cards are mixed and, of course, the decision is before us. We do not intend to oppose this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Mr. Paul Gantar is a person who, as has been said and heard, is suitable for the first man among the same. However, while we are talking about this proposal, which is not bad, I stress, it is not bad, but something to point out. There is certainly an even better decision than a good one in the National Assembly, now with approved mandates. I think the coalition troika, which was more of a commercial deal, went through it. We argue, therefore, in the Slovenian National Party we are of the opinion that this good decision could be even better if we take into account the wisdom and expertise needed to lead the National Assembly. I believe that Mr. Pavel Gantar will be able to find this wisdom. However, as has already been said, in the National Assembly there are names and surnames that could easily be found. He's just gonna have to try. What I would like to point out is that it is likely that the future mandate-holder knows that even in the National Assembly, the first man is important for all those decisions that can improve the situation of citizens and citizens, and I hope that you are indeed making the first decision for the future through this proposal. As has already been said, we will not oppose this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, distinguished guests on the balcony, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, allow me first to congratulate all newly elected Members and Members of Parliament on their election, and I want all of us to participate constructively in the next term. In opening, I must say that I welcome the agreement to anticipate the second largest coalition party, and practice has been done in some mandates back, candidateing or proposing for the President of the National Assembly. This is also a clear message that there are not only two parties in the Slovenian space, as we would like to show in public before the elections, and as the voters have also made many decisions in this year's elections. Indeed, he proposed a candidate who, according to their assessment, is the most suitable for this difficult and important function. This, I stress, is the legitimate right of the Group of Members and we respect it. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we expect from the new President of the National Assembly, of course, there is no doubt in the election that he will lead this National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, take care of the reputation of the National Assembly, cooperate well with the other branches of the authorities and, above all, cooperate properly with all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, especially those who will act as opposition Members. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will be following each of our own beliefs about the appropriateness of the candidate for president and will make this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u25	Thank you very much. And Mrs Katarina Kresal on behalf of the LDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. Let me first, on behalf of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, congratulate and wish all good to all elected Members and Members that they will be doing this job for the next four years in a kind and constructive manner. Liberal democracy sees the National Assembly in particular as a place of debate, as a place where every vote is indeed regarded as a place where every opinion is taken into account; and this highest legislative body, in which we want an open, reasoned, effective debate, an effective exchange of views. And the point is to open our eyes and open our heads with different opinions; that we can find dialogue; that we can find the best solutions. And the main challenge for the future President of the National Assembly will be this: that he will be able to maintain this relationship in the National Assembly, this open debate. It is already important that there is a man in this place who counts something, with arguments that he can take into account, who listens to them, and that he is a man who has already demonstrated by his own actions that he can respect the rule of law and that he can respect human rights. Therefore, for all these reasons in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we consider the proposed candidate Dr. Gantar to be the right man for this city. We have great challenges ahead of us in difficult times. How can we ensure as boldly as possible the development of Slovenia? How can we achieve a better balance between an efficient economy and a solidarity society? How can we achieve better quality of life, but take into account the higher quality of environmental protection standards every day? How can we achieve that we will truly be the original knowledge society and that we will not forget the rights of each individual? And if we want to achieve these examples, if we are to follow these great challenges, then the National Assembly must also place prominent people in the most important places. Only in this way will we be able to do well; only then will we be able to make sound decisions about all the challenges that lead us to the future. Because we believe that the National Assembly, with your election, will receive an experienced president, and because Slovenia will receive a reputable and exemplary policy, you, respected Dr. Gantar, the Liberal Democracy supports and wishes you well in your future work. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. It is available every five minutes. The first is Mr Jožef Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests on the balcony. It must be a big day for Slovenia today, for democracy in Slovenia, and I hope to share the views of everyone that we are looking with confidence at the next four-year term. We elect the President and we establish the National Assembly, and we all want this to be actually the temple of democracy. In the past mandates, I think the Slovenian National Assembly has done a lot of work in this area and has come a long way. Let me say that I myself will support the candidate for the President of the National Assembly. I will support, I will say perhaps with some banal reason - Mr Gantar was one of those Members who respected the controversy, replicas and interlocutors in the National Assembly. In this respect, it differed significantly from most of the opposition's previous conduct, which was inherent to parliaments, defined as something unheard of because it came from the past, when all decisions were agreed elsewhere and the Assembly was then only a place of uplifting - without controversy, without it. I think this needs to be stressed again, and I hope that colleague Gantar will be able to guarantee the dignity and authority of the National Assembly. The authority of Members that Members in the Slovenian space will not be the most unheard of, people with the highest privileges, but that, as is the case in the countries of democracy, these will be valued people. Last but not least, no one can come to this house, no one who hasn't been elected. And when I say that we will appreciate here - I reiterate the thought of the former President of the German Parliament, who said, "He who claims to be," - he said the argument, and I say the controversy - "the debate or controversy in Parliament is something bad, it is only the clay of democracy." And there's been a lot of dazzling democracy in the past. And I hope that my colleague Gantar, who has been very keen to replicate me and therefore I appreciate and respect this quality of Members who are able to replicate, who are able to fight with the power of argument to continue this and that this role of the opposition will be respected even now that he is presiding over the National Assembly. In doing so, of course, he will have extremely difficult work to do in maintaining this dignity and authority of the National Assembly. For we have just heard from the President of the Liberal Democracy that this should be a place of debate. That's right! It must be a place of debate, but it must also be a place of decision, but that was not true. And of course, from many signs it is evident that the pre-election rhetoric was merely rhetoric of the current coalition, that it is so-called, now popularly called the "GB of Three" - after the beginnings of the names of the presidents - spoke another of what it intends to do in the current term. It was ensured from all sides that the autonomy of the media, the journalists, would be, but it happened that it was from these mouths that there was already an outrageous outrage at the journalist's question. Even directing what he can ask and what he can't ask. Secondly, I must stress once again, we have heard a deplorable, actually underestimating opinion that, Mr Golobic has expressed this that the National Assembly, the President, is not enough for me, and this is no coincidence. And I must say that, unfortunately, here I recall the words of Mr Slavoj Žižk, who metaphorically probably compared you to the new Slovenian Stalin. I'd be a lot happier if I said that then, that would be the new Slovenian Churchill. Then I wouldn't question the procedures and methods of this coalition. He said otherwise that you are people of authority, and I believe that you will now be people of authority, and I hope that Mr Gantar will prevent this power from being abused in this mandate. Intruder [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would also like to begin by congratulating all of us today on your trust and on your final confirmed trust for the next four years. In recent discussions, it has been shown that the proposal to take the lead of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, makes sense and that most recognize the qualities or abilities he has. You yourself said that it was wisdom, expertise, knowledge and respect for controversy, dialogue and democracy. And this is what needs to be enforced here, I will say, also to enforce and respect. Indeed, the mandate will not be easy, Mr Jerovšek has already indicated in this direction, but let me say that, in many ways or in most ways, I agree with that part of the thoughts that have been expressed so far regarding Mr Paul Gantar, who in fact represents a respectful continuity. Those open democratic thinking processes that were in place, not yesterday, but in the early 1980s. And in the light of these 80 years, when it has significantly opened up debates that many have not hoped for, it is to understand the trust that has been given to him today and also the great expectations that come from all of us and you, for the mandate that he will carry out in the next period, not easy, but in relation to his open views, the possibility of listening to a different reflection of the debate, and of course also taking into account the thoughts of another, that will undoubtedly make it easier than many today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I'll give my opinion. It is true, as my colleague Lahovnik said, that serious decision takes time to think. It's just that this is not the time for political trade. And a second time. I don't believe the excuse; I call it that this is the first proof that the ruling party of the Social Democrats doesn't want to have its own representative in the government and in the National Assembly. It's not a name or a last name. It's not about importance. I'm the president. It is a responsibility and a great responsibility that must be assumed by those who have been given authority by the people. But regardless of what I say, I am the result of today's election, the result of political trade and the avoidance of responsibility. Okay. Nevertheless, I am going to throw more than five shovels of cement into the malt, which we are mixing for the foundations and for the house in which the Slovenians and Slovenians will live, and I hope that on warm and beautiful, I will throw more five shovels of cement in order that this hammer will be solid and will endure. It means. The legitimate right they have chosen will be respected and I will gladly support my colleague, whom I respect and appreciate for his work, Mr Gantar. But I warn you that every wall that falls from this house and every roof that falls to the ground will be the responsibility of Social Democracy, not of Mr Paul Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Everyone in this hall has a nice greeting! I'm joining up with all the congratulations I've said. I, like my colleague Joseph Jerovšek, will also support Mr Paul Gantar. I've known him for a long time, I met him for the first time in college when he was an assistant, I was a student. Then I followed his publicist work, and in the last year and two of us were sitting together in the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. I think that Mr Pavel Gantar has done a very good and honest work there. Remember the conclusion of our commission that studied Owl’s affair, and at that time Paul Gantar voted in favour that Janez Janša and Ivo Sanader did not negotiate incidents in the Gulf of Piran. And this decision was false to the claim of his former client colleague, Mr. Anton Rope. I am sure that Mr Pavel Gantar will do his work properly and professionally, as he has done so far, and that we can absolutely trust him with this function. Of course, I don't know how he's going to feel about this coalition, which part of it is now embarking on some new political path whose new paradigm is a lie. And he'll be able to say something about it in the future, after the end of his term. However, as I am speaking, allow me to say this to the next point, I will also support all three candidates for Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, including Mr Ptræ, who I first saw on television some 40 years ago. That's when we got our first black and white TV in Black, and we all gathered behind this TV. Today we live in the digital age, we live on global, internet television and I think it is good that we will see Mr Potsch in this place also in this image. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u36	Dear Presidents, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! If the relationship in the National Assembly is already manifested by the naming of individual parties with names and individual Members, the appointment of one part of Parliament as a transitional troika, Mr Tanko, is not the best journey for good communication. I think it was a little slip and it won't happen again. The first meeting of the National Assembly, as said by colleague Matthew, is always a holiday of democracy, and as such we all experience it today. However, citizens and citizens are likely to expect concrete decisions from us. And after the debate so far, it seems that these decisions will be taken and will confirm the formation of the leadership of this National Assembly, as proposed by the proponents, i.e. the parties who have proposed Mr Gantar as President of the National Assembly. We in the party Zares, when we decided on a name, on a man who was supposed to represent the National Assembly as best as possible and to allow for some identification with a culture of political dialogue and, above all, an act where there is no room for exclusion, we were aware that the task was very difficult. We appreciated the SD party's move, which is in the spirit of political self-restraint, and this move meant that we, as the other party, took this responsibility seriously. And we have decided seriously to run for President of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Ganttar. I also know Paul personally from the 1970s when the critic of the then undemocratic power was determined. We worked together in the College of the Committee on Human Rights, and I therefore know what kind of political culture marks it. Therefore, I have no doubt, not only because I belong to the party that proposes it, but as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I look forward to such a President of the National Assembly. As said by colleague Katarina Kresal, we are facing major challenges, in the face of major conflicts, perhaps with a recession, perhaps with a financial crisis, perhaps with climate change, and it is important to convey to our public - citizens and citizens, a clear message that today this National Assembly will be capable of normal functioning, for normal functioning. I am therefore looking forward to and I think that my optimism will be confirmed that today we will have broad support for the President and all the other Vice-Presidents. I would also like to make a public statement that I will support all the proposed Vice-Presidents, because I believe that all are true gentlemen and have parliamentary, state and political experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, dear guests. All together once again congratulations and above all happy, responsible and sober on the path entrusted to us by the electorate. If we do each part of our task as it should, then it will be good for citizens and citizens in this country and for all of whom I will work together already in advance to recommend cooperation. Today, of course, we are performing a responsible task. Since 1991, the National Assembly of this country has had good presidents, and I am sure that it will be so in the future, so at this point in my city, I am sincerely grateful to Dr. Tsukati, who has done his responsible task as he knew and knew best, but he has undoubtedly been a reflection of the government and the middle and the coalition from which he came. The size of the winners of the elections is that they also know how to act after the elections according to what they received in the elections, and therefore congratulations to the future mandate holder and to the SD party for these first moves. The future coalitions are obviously not working through the dictatorship, but also, as far as the President of the National Assembly is concerned, different solutions have been sought from several good proposals, and I am happy to say that Pavel Gantar will be my president and that I will gladly confirm him. But I have a little problem. It is also expected from the loser that when the spirit of the ferple competes, that when you are defeated, that you can shake your hand better than yourself and admit it to him without bitterness, without bitterness, and without malice in your heart. I hope that those predictions that came out of this debate today were not taken very seriously. I am sure that President Gantar will be the first of the same to be matured for this function because of his political path, his history, especially because he has always proved himself and proved himself to be a man who is going to be trusted, a man with a great initial and such a president is the National Assembly and the State of Slovenia deserves it, so I will gladly support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say congratulations to all of you, especially to all the newly elected Members and Members who have been re-elected. Today, under this item on the agenda, we are discussing the new President of the National Assembly. This function is primarily responsible, it is not an honorary function, so the explanation that someone deserves such a function or that he is a respectable person, I think he is not the best explanation, here must be ability, determination and communication, so that we can also coordinate different positions. I wish, and probably everyone here, that this house of democracy will truly work for the well-being of Slovenia, citizens and citizens and the key role for it will certainly be at the President of the National Assembly. I do not want to see any President or Vice-President as we have witnessed in the previous term, when his leadership was based on everything before some correctness, but rather on anarchy. I think that the former President of the National Assembly, Mr France Tsukati, has played his role more than excellent. I think we can all be grateful for his role in bringing together different views and, of course, thank him personally. Above all, I can reiterate a number of praises from the electorates and voters I have met with, which, of course, are also a positive assessment of his leadership. I think that the new President of the National Assembly will also be able to set an example for the former President, and that he will be able to take on a number of his actions or ways in his work. I do not want to determine whether these functions will be able or not about Mr Gantar himself. His work in the previous term, as well as during the ministerial period, left certain traces in the Slovenian space, but this is certainly not a guarantee that he could lead in the same way or with the same success. Given the support given to him, I have no doubt he will not be elected. Of course, I wish him a successful job, especially to be aware of this responsibility he has, and to allow us to coordinate our views in this house of democracy, to make such decisions in favour of all, as I have already mentioned, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I wish him a pleasant and, above all, a successful job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! Civil social movements in the 1980s were one of the most important factors leading to the establishment of democracy in that country. And Dr. Paula Gantar was one of the most important members. For this and for all his abilities, knowledge and conduct, I believe he is suitable for the President of the National Assembly. At the same time, I wonder why Mr. Jože Tanko is asking himself about his expertise. And at the same time, while we are talking about women's quotas, you have also had the opportunity to propose to the Vice-President, and you have proposed to the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregor Golobich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction and, above all, the joy of the fact that some support has been announced to the candidate for President of the National Assembly, Paul Gantar, by the party seen in the opposition. If the price for this support, which I believe was not self-evident, is also a raised voice or a slightly incorrect consideration of my trifles, then I am happy to take it. I just want to draw attention to some of the facts, because it is right that in this assembly, when it comes to the presidency of the National Assembly, it is the case that it is operating on facts. I am glad that Mr Jerovšek is an adherent of controversy. I'm on my own. I look forward to a face-to-face, an argument. Unfortunately, some of them did not face me at the time of the election campaign. Maybe it will, and I believe there will be more opportunities for this in this mandate; already, I will say, I can't wait. In any event, it was not arbitrary for the party to propose a candidate for the President of the National Assembly. On the contrary, we express ourselves very explicitly about seeing the appropriate man, a qualified man, in this place, is no secret, Mr Miran Potsch. I believe it's hard to understand an option, a client who's always seen the best in herself, a move when someone sees the good in others. However, when the offer by the SD party came, we took it very seriously. And there is no way that I would say at any time, with any statement, that the presidency of the National Assembly, as Mr Jerovská has said, would be too little for me or anything like that, or that I would like another, as Mr Tanko said, to have a mixed function. There wasn't a word about that. On the contrary, this function was, in my opinion, too large for me. That is why I am also committed to running for it for a man who has more experience in Parliament than I have. I would have been here last, in this Chamber, was different, 16 years ago, as a delegate to the first democratically independent assembly. A lot has changed since then. The rules of procedure have changed, customs have changed, and many things have changed in this House. I do not know this practice exactly, and Pavel Gantar is much more enlightened than I am in these matters. I am also sure that in a number of ways - even in part the controversy that has developed, this is proved - is largely met by the high criteria that must be met by someone who submits to this place. The current coalition, as you said, is - and I agree with that, if I end with this - a lot of political or pre-election rhetoric could be used at the time of the campaign, and this continues. In fact, we started a new election campaign today, obviously. I would only like to see decisions taken in this call in the State Assembly following an important debate where all the arguments would be heard, and that the facts would count and that personal disqualifications would be placed as much as possible in the Embarrassment. I'm going to do my own best. I believe, and I am sure, that I am also the Group of Members, which I am temporarily leading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the election of the President to the National Assembly, the Council shall act by a permanent vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairpersons and the four Members elected by the assembly. I have already been presented with proposals for members of the committee leading the vote for the honourable leaders of the parliamentary groups. These are: Mr Alexander Ravnikar, SD, Mr Robert Hrovat, SDS, Mr Willi Trophynik, Mr Really and Mr Guido Kres, SLS. I am also a member of this Commission as chairman, and the Deputy Secretary-General, Mr Matjaž Plevel, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? I guess not. If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There were 84 votes in favour, 84 in favour, 83 against 1. [[The vote was 83.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution, the candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber, in the Houses of Votes, Members and Members of Parliament, you will place the completed votes in the Vote Box, which is at the table next to the booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217 immediately, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 12.55 p.m. and will last until 13.10. Members who will assist me in the vote, please meet in room 217 after the vote. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 13.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u46	Dear Members and Members! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to a closed third point, which is the election of the President of the National Assembly. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for President of the National Assembly. The candidate was Dr. Pavel Gantar. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 October 2008. 84 ballots were distributed, 84 ballots were delivered, 2 votes invalid, 82 votes valid. 69 MEPs voted in favour. [[Let's hear it.]] The "against" was voted by 13 members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Pavel Gantar was elected President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. Members of the Commission and their signatures. I congratulate the newly elected President of the National Assembly, Mr Paul Gantar, and wish him great success in the performance of his duties! [[Let's hear it.]] Mr President, I ask you to escort the President of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk, to the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly. I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly to Dr. Paul Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u47	Dear President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, distinguished diplomatic assembly, high guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honourable Members and Members! First of all, I would like to congratulate my fellow Members and Members on their election and express my conviction that we will work well and successfully in the next term. At the same time, I would like to thank you for this strong support. I hope that I will hold this position of President of the National Assembly with honour and responsibility in the common good of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, in the common good of us in this assembly and, of course, in the interests of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. Allow me, on this occasion, to begin by thanking President Frances Tsukjati for his previous term of office and, of course, to all the Vice-Presidents. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt that Parliament, the National Assembly, is the democratically elected institution that exercises legislative power. Our job is to legislate, among other things. Not any laws, but good laws. This is an ideal, and this is the goal of every authority. It can be brought closer to this goal, but it can never be fully realized and what is a good law that follows the public interest and how the debate in this house will take place in the next four years, with many proposals that we will get to the table and we will discuss them, and this debate must be lively, must be open and controversial. I myself defend the position, these Members of the Old Testament know, I myself defend the position, rather the word too much than the word too little. But let that word touch things and not people and their personal qualities. We must not take the right to discuss them. The basic way in which we come to decisions is, of course, a vote and thus an inevitable vote. It is, of course, a division into a majority and a minority, and it is my job to protect the minority, i.e. the opposition, in this process, if necessary. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that democracy and the opposition in Parliament are not just for decoration. Nor can it be just the lever of the democratic legitimacy of the ruling majority. It's a lot more. It is evidence that there is constant evidence that there is an alternative to all political decisions. There is a different option, a different path and a different one. That what is accepted is not the only thing that is possible, but it can be different. This is an extremely important message for the wise government, and if it does not take into account it, of course a different and second path will also happen. Parliament is often a monument to democracy. Today, democracy is broader and is not limited only to the democratic procedures of the people's beloved representatives, i.e. to indirect democracy. It also contains many other forms of cooperation and co-decision between people in public affairs management. Sometimes it seems that democracy, once established, is self-sustaining and acts automatically. Well, we know that's not the case. We must establish democratic institutions every day with our work and every day, with every action we do, we can confirm, consolidate or threaten democracy. We can't take her backstage. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to remind you, in my opinion, of the two threats to democracy which I believe are being avoided, if only we must avoid. The first is the danger of populism. Danger, then, is a quick and easy promise that some problems are easy to solve and that others are always guilty if we are doing bad. And another danger is that there is a predominance of interests and the desire of one interested social group itself can be wider or narrower groups, in disregard of and neglect of others. In decisions that will sometimes not be easy, the National Assembly will have to weigh the interests carefully, balance them and not agree to solutions that will be one, say, much for the better and the other for the worse. It is very important that Parliament is credible in this respect and that it can balance and weigh the interests of everyone in society and the country. Each term of office of the National Assembly faces new situations, as well as old and inherited problems. These include unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court. I myself will do everything in my power to change this situation within a reasonable time, especially in cases where these decisions relate to the exercise of human rights. In this mandate, I believe that, together with you, I intend to continue the policy of an open Parliament. There is a need for more spirit of very vibrant civil society to be released into this house, and in addition to the dialogue in Parliament, there is also dialogue between Parliament and civil society, and many ways and opportunities are at our disposal. Let me once again thank you, dear colleagues, for your trust. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the National Assembly for his words and sincerely congratulate him.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Republic, Dr. Daniel Türk, who will address the assembly. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u50	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, distinguished diplomatic assembly, senior guests, ladies and gentlemen! I want to start this speech with a card. Congratulations, Mr President, on your election to this important and responsible place, a congratulations to all Members and Members for their election to the National Assembly and with the best wishes for successful and fruitful work, for the benefit of our common country. While I thanked Members and Members, Ministers and Ministers of the previous Assembly a good week ago, today is an opportunity to speak in particular to you and to congratulate you on your election. I would like to pay particular tribute to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, voters and voters, for this year's elections, this year's most important act of democracy in our country. In Slovenia, power is vested in the people. That's what our constitution defines. Once again, as provided for in the Constitution, this authority is exercised by citizens and citizens directly by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. The principle of the division of power is essential for the exercise of the authority of the people. This year's elections have also shown that the people of Slovenia, their citizens and citizens, voters and voters, take democracy seriously. Slovenian voters and voters are critical and skeptical. They always use their electoral rights with a great deal of common sense and political sense. However, the elected representatives will always be entrusted with responsibilities with the expectation that they will fully justify their trust. Therefore, we need to give the most careful consideration to our responsibilities and trust, with results, to all the holders of our beloved functions. Democracy in Slovenia is in good shape. She may be missing some element of maturity that has been brought about by a longer period of history. Perhaps some of our political divisions are too ideological and too connected with the characteristic Slovenian aberration. In spite of this, in our history, in particular in the last two decades, Slovenia has proved that we can make responsible and serious decisions, both when it comes to major historical decisions such as the independence and establishment of the sovereign state of Slovenia, and when it comes to more practical and more everyday decisions. Europe and the whole world also recognise the maturity achieved. Slovenia was not accidentally entrusted with the Presidency of the European Union as the first among the new members of the European Union. Nor is it a coincidence that Slovenia has done this responsibility successfully and responsibly. In the past legislative period, the government has been particularly grateful for the successful work done, and thus for the consolidation of the situation of Slovenia in the family of European peoples. The achieved degree of maturity of our democracy has made it possible to succeed in this task, which has engaged the entire administration and the entire political structure of our society. Dear Members and Members! Behind you are the elections, this is the stage of the democratic pluralist process in which pluralism is most pronouncedly competitive. After the elections, there will be time to think about priorities and how to work forward. Parliament, our National Assembly, is an extremely important centre of this work, is a legislative body and a tribunal of debate. It's a market, it's an ideal place for coordination. It is a place of confrontation between the government and the opposition and a factor of synthesis. All this wealth of parliamentary functions must be carefully cultivated. It is not good when Parliament is reduced to a voting and voting mechanism. The apparent effectiveness of such a practice poores the quality of decisions and work. Good decisions arise after careful consideration, in a thorough debate, in the exchange of arguments and in the formulation of decisions. Sometimes, such a process often takes more time and just in assessing how much time and how much time it takes to discuss, the political wisdom of decision-making, the gravity of decisions and their long-term value are expressed. This framework is also of great importance to the ability to seek common language and the broadest possible consensus on the important issues of our development. The art of politics will also be reflected here. Politics, however, are mostly local and mostly short-term. However, it is also right to take into account the broader, including the international context and the long-term importance of decisions, especially when the situation so requires. In the coming period, we will have many reasons in Slovenia to reflect on the international circumstances to be decided on and on the long-term aspects of decisions. The current developments on the international financial system show certain signs of decomposition. New solutions will be needed and the question is whether they will be good enough and comprehensive enough to finally be able to talk about a new, better global financial system. The search period will require a clear definition of all countries, including ours. There will be a need for prudence and, in particular, for timely decision-making. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will have difficult tasks. That is why it will be important for the relevant debate and guidance to be held in the National Assembly and for the widest possible support to government policy. The role of policy and the country will be irreplaceable in these circumstances. Reliance on economic and financial factors will not be sufficient. Only the state and citizens can provide the legal solutions and arrangements that our time requires. It is not only about preventing the recurrence of the risks posed by deregulation and irresponsible financial and credit activity in certain financial centres of the world. This is much more, it is the necessity of a new international financial architecture. Of course, Slovenia will not have a decisive word about this, but it will not be without a vote. In particular, Slovenia will have to learn well in the changing circumstances that are already beginning. This will require a serious debate and also a decision on reforms, reforms for decommissioning the real economy and opening up the place of entrepreneurship and creativity, reforms for modern social protection, such a long-term pension regime that will take account of demographic development in our country. We often hear how crisis situations also mean an opportunity, not just a threat. Of course it is, but opportunities need first to be discovered and then to be able to take advantage. The role of the National Assembly in all of this is irreplaceable. The solutions needed to ensure the highest long-term development and transformation of our society into a knowledge-based society. Human potential is our greatest wealth, and knowledge is its greatest power. This potential will have to be made good use of. We should not be intimidated here by appropriate investment in science and knowledge, technological transformation and technical development. We should not give up the development of environmentally friendly green technologies that provide technological progress and the necessary mitigation of the consequences of global warming. The reforms we need will have to be comprehensive and will require readiness for innovation. Dear Members and Members! Today is the day when it is right to be aware of the scope of the tasks ahead of this National Assembly. The coming month and the coming years will be the time for a detailed debate and competent decision-making. Of course, legislative action is a critical part of this decision. However, the importance of the legislative process is not only in the good content of decisions, good and well-thought-out laws. Quality has best ensured the authority of the legislative work and the authority of the entire system of our public institutions. This authority, however, is essential for confidence in the country, for the trust that gives citizens and citizens a sense of security and faith in the future, faith in our further successful development. So it is essentially to strengthen our sense of belonging to our country, to trust in our country. So it is the modern content of our patriotism. This patriotism is no longer reflected solely in the care of our language and culture and in the preservation of ours, with the victims of acquired independence. These components of patriotism are indisputable and self-sustaining. We have to grow them every day. But we need to understand that patriotism requires even more - it requires self-confidence, which brings development and technological success and a comprehensive uplifting of quality in our society. The more our country is able to guarantee development and social justice, the stronger our patriotism will be. The more successful we are in preventing pathologies, such as unjustifiable wealth and corruption, the more our country will gain the trust of people and the stronger their patriotism will be. The more principled and firm our foreign policy will be, both in relation to the world and in relation to our neighbours, the greater our self-confidence and the stronger our patriotism will be. As far as we know from our political development to eliminate stubbornness and envy, the greater people's confidence in political representatives will be, and the greater their patriotism will be. Domesticism is an indisputable value today, and its power will be measured by the quality of our development and our country. That is why we must do our utmost to strengthen the authority of the institutions that provide this quality for the rule of law, for respect for human rights, for social solidarity. And on all these issues, the National Assembly has an irreplaceable place. However, he is not alone in this effort. He will be greatly helped by consistent respect for the division of power and by taking into account the independent tasks and responsibilities of the executive and judicial branches of authority. Everyone can do the most for the common good if he is doing his own job well. The National Assembly therefore has the right to insist on the effectiveness and independent responsibilities of the Executive and independence and the own authority of the judiciary. Sometimes the decisions of the National Assembly, such as those involving the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, are also necessary. The good decisions it makes and those requested from others by the Constitutional Court strengthen the authority and independent role of the judiciary and the system of state institutions as a whole. And just a few months ago, the strengthening of the authority of the Constitutional Court was devoted to my specific suggestions, which I presented to the National Assembly in a previous reference. I am pleased that these suggestions have already received broad public support. I hope that the National Assembly will successfully continue and complete the process of constitutional changes that will consolidate the Constitutional Court and thus our entire justice system. We urgently need this consolidation in order to ensure the appropriate quality of the rule of law and thus our further development. Dear Members and Members! The thoughts I share with you today, this time in one way or another, express many citizens and citizens here. We live in a time of hope and uncertainty. Our collective effort will depend on how quickly we will be able to ensure conditions in which hope and trust will prevail irreparably. A new government and a good government are, of course, needed to make progress in this direction. I am pleased to say today that I will hold the necessary consultations with the parliamentary groups as soon as possible and propose a mandate holder for the composition of the new government. We can't afford to waste any time. The will of the people expressed in the elections was clear, and it is my job to contribute to the constitution of the new National Assembly and to elect a new government with the actions imposed on me by the Constitution, as well as with the necessary consultations, as soon as possible. That's what I intend to do. I believe in the good cooperation of all the parliamentary groups, and I am sure that the further process of forming the Government will soon be successful. Dear Members and Members, Mr President of the National Assembly! I started this speech with a card. Let me end it with expressions of trust and expectation. You've been given a mandate for a challenging task in difficult times. There is no doubt that with good work and good cooperation we are also able to find good answers in these times to all the questions that concern our country, our Slovenia. Your work in this will be crucial. Let wisdom accompany him. Let today's legislative period be established in history by the highest quality of laws and other decisions. May our time be our best time! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Republic for his words. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude this item on the agenda. But before we go to the next one, this is the 4th item of the agenda, we will be in five minutes, first in this room then on the stairs, taking a group photo and therefore Members and Members who are not currently in the hall, please join us. That's why I'm adjourning the meeting for fifteen minutes. We'll continue at 2:10 p.m. and ask you to stay in the hall so we can prepare for the photo shoot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u52	We're moving to four. It's at the will of the vice presidents of the national council. I inform you that, for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, a group of 49 Members, with the first-signed Mr Borut Pahor, has submitted a proposal. Mr Miran Potrč is proposed as Vice-President of the National Assembly. A group of 31 Members with a first-signed mag. Francem Žnidaršič, Vice-President of the National Assembly, proposes mag. Vasjo Klavoro. For the Vice-President of the largest opposition group, a group of 27 Members, with the first-signed Mr Janez Janša, proposes Mr Francet Cukjati. These are the nominations we got. I therefore ask further, do qualified applicants still wish to submit a proposal for a candidacy? I guess not. So the applications are filed. Do the parliamentary groups want a recess to consult on the candidates' proposals? They want the parliamentary groups to consult? I'm guessing that's not an expression of interest. Do the representatives of the candidates wish to further explain their proposal for a candidacy? Mr Borut Pahor, with regard to Mr Miran Ptræ's candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u53	Madam President, allow me to congratulate you once again on this journey and wish you all the best in the performance of this difficult but also of a beautiful political position. And congratulations to all of you, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly explain the proposal made by the Group of Social Democrats for Mr Miran Potræ's candidacy for the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Comrade Miran Potrč is one of the very few of us who sits in this Chamber since the first democratic elections in 1990, as a Member. And all so far as the leader of our party's parliamentary group. More. Miran Potrč, the president of the Assembly, who, at the end of the one-party system with the amendment of constitutional supplements, laid, inter alia, the basis for the necessary legislation which allowed for the first democratic elections. With Mirano Ptrče, we have in our parliamentary environment a man who has a very rich parliamentary political tradition. He's an experienced and wise man. As far as I know him, it's also very honest. It may or may not be agreed with. But each of his views speaks with caution, calmly, and in order to draw attention to the importance of his argument, at least as far as I know him, he never raises his voice. The peaceful Potz was, as it is said, elected in all the elections where he fought for the mandate of the people. He was also elected in 2000 when he was fighting against the future Prime Minister of the Government, Drnovšk, at the time, in a district where, in fact, there was very little chance that he would receive support as a representative of the smaller party, and in spite of extremely severe competition, he also received it in such circumstances. So from 1990 to today, always with a lot of support from people. The peaceful Run was, as it were said, the leader of the Group of Members all the time. He was doing his job very conscientiously, and I would like to say that for many years I was also his colleague and friend, that he is one of those few Members who reads exactly everything that comes to the table of the Member and, in particular, the leader of the Group of Members. If he gets your confidence - let me say that in Social Democracy we will also support the other two candidates for this position - he will do his work as Vice-President of the National Assembly with discretion, conscientiousness, honesty and best of his ability. With its rich political experience, it can help the newly elected President and both colleagues in this position to ensure that the National Assembly is led as an institution with its authority and its place in Slovenian politics, as a chamber of democracy in which debates are also bile, because compromises are also sought and agreements are reached on the most important national issues. A peaceful Run is, if I may say so at the end, a man who likes to hear the word "load" in the most noble sense of the word, but is a great gentleman of Slovenian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." To Franc Žnidaršič, concerning the candidacy of mag. Your Clavor. Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u55	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Signatures of the proposal for a Vice-President of the National Assembly in the person of Mr Mag. Vasje Klavore, we are aware that Mr Klavora has performed his current role as Vice-President of the National Assembly in a solid, dignified, responsible and very conscientious manner and has maintained his peaceful blood in some of the heated debates and procedures that have been conducted in this Chamber in a manner that has not offended anyone and that he has maintained the kind of positive atmosphere that is necessary when an institution as important as the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is running. We believe that his work experience, including, of course, in the field of protocol obligations, the replacement of the President of the National Assembly, came to light especially at the time when he was left alone from three vice-presidents and the only one of three held his mandate until the end. And in this sense, we also see him as the one who wanted to do his job in his office in a way that he would not be able to make it clear that he couldn't handle it or that he wasn't able to carry it out responsibly until the end of his term of office, which was over. We believe that there is no reason for him to be given wider support also because his candidacy has been supported by a number of Members from the five parliamentary groups in which we have asked for signatures. However, I believe that there are many others who would support his candidacy, and so it seems that there is no room on paper. We believe that he will and that he deserves to be re-elected, and that he somehow belongs to the three future Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, who will have to pull this train forward together, to the great help of the President, who has already been elected. On this occasion, I must say that we believe in him and that the right man is for this function. We expect him to receive the broadest support, in particular from the signatories and our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank to explain Mr Francet Tsukati's proposal for candidacy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr President, once again, congratulations on your election! In accordance with Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, one seat of the Vice-President of the National Assembly shall belong to the Member of the largest opposition parliamentary group. In this mandate, our parliamentary group will appear to be the largest opposition parliamentary group, and we propose to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly, France Tsukjati, Doctor of Medicine. Mr Tsukati has been a peaceful politician, to whom the electorates have also, for the third time, given high support for his term of office. First he received high support in 2000, then he was also head of the parliamentary group for some time and then in 2004. In this mandate, which we concluded a few moments ago, he was also elected President of the National Assembly and served faithfully and responsibly. This was the time when Slovenia and its institutions were strongly involved in the European story and made it a success. A large part of the burden and responsibility of this time were borne by the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjat. And although Slovenia chaired the European Union for the first time, it has been commended everywhere for its presidency for its accession, for its mode of work and also for its results. Mr Tsukati, as President of the National Assembly, played a very important role in this European story. Even before his first election as Member, he was also Secretary of the Ministry of Health in Bajuk's Government in 2000. Before that, he was active in union movements and also participated in the relaunch of the Medical Chamber in 1992 and was then its secretary-general for some time. He also received high support at the elections this year. Otherwise, we can say that Mr Tsukjat is a person of broad spirit and understanding, as he has also confirmed by his tolerant approach in past parliamentary practice. Mr Tsukjat has the unanimous support of the parliamentary group in his candidacy, as we know that he will carry out his work in a responsible, correct and calm manner. More support would also be welcome by the proposers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak for the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u59	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A sincere congratulations and a desire for a good work also on my part. There is no doubt that proposals are competent on the table for the Vice-President of Parliament. It is the bearers of the current functions, important functions in Parliament, the former Parliamentary President, the former Vice-President of Parliament, who, by the way, has actually held the full mandate in this important function and, of course, the longtime leader of the Group of Social Democrats. However, there are only a few concoctions on these proposals. For the first time, proposals were more balanced in favour of the opposition four years ago. Four years ago, there were proposals on the table when we were talking about Parliament's presidential and vice-presidential functions, two to two, position, opposition. At that time, a presidential function was proposed for the coalition party, one vice-presidential function for the coalition party and two vice-presidential seats for opposition parties. Unfortunately, the current announced coalition undermines this important principle, which was introduced and I think it was good and also reflected in some way the ratios of power that the parties received in the elections. It's not like that right now. Now the ratio is four to one or three to one in four cities, but it is also the most important function, this is the vice-presidential function, in the coalition domain. In doing so, I just want to say that we have competent people in this House on the one hand and on the other, and that it would be possible to find a better, more democratic solution in recognition of competence. That's the first, I'd say, bottle on this proposal. The second pot is these so-called quotas. I think it would be better if there were at least one representative of the other sex among the vice-presidents. But one more time. Given that most of the proposals made by the coalition, three out of four, it would be good to see that the main part of the responsibility is also due to a lack of respect for some balance here, of course, a different proposal. But whatever. You've made up your mind, as you've decided. We will not oppose anyone in the Slovenian Democratic Party. As in the election of the President of Parliament, we leave to our judgment and judgment on these Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I give the word to Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik on behalf of the Zares - New Policy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dear Members. In the Group of Members, we will truly support all three Vice-Presidents, candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. And speaking of the practice of the previous mandate, it must also be said that it was not an honour for the previous National Assembly not to support the Vice-President of the largest opposition party. We want to change this practice now and also to show how we understand the role of the National Assembly, which is why, of course, we will also support Mr Tsukjati. I would like to say that we are assessing that there are three very suitable candidates and that they are right to have a lot of experience. We also know at the World Cup in football when it comes to semi-finals and finals, they are the most experienced, most proven judges. And in the Group of Members, we really believe that it is also right in this case that these are highly experienced candidates. Mr Pokrč enjoys very much respect in our Group of Members, and this is not a secret that we highly appreciate his work and of course we will gladly support it. Mr. Mag. In his previous mandate, Klavor proved that he was able to hold meetings of the National Assembly calmly and properly, and in this case, of course, our support was never questionable. As I have also said about Mr Sugar coming from the largest, most likely opposition party, we think it is right, of course, that this city is occupied. We also believe that it was a good decision to propose to this place someone who has experience in running the National Assembly and sufficient political mileage. So we will be happy to support all three proposals. I would like to point out, however, that this practice in the previous term of the National Assembly was not always the same when it came to the election of Vice-Presidents, which is why we want this practice to change. The opposition is also entitled under the Rules of Procedure, and it is also good to have a representative from the opposition chairing the meetings of the National Assembly. That is why, as I said, we will be happy to support all three candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman, DeSUS Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u63	Thank you so much for inviting me to the floor, Dr. Gantar, and a nice greeting to all colleagues and colleagues! Nor do I want to miss the opportunity to place myself in a long line of all those who have already spoken kind words and congratulations, while also expressing the hope that, with kindness and congratulations, tolerance and cooperation, we will also be able to insist on meetings that will follow that censorships may be smaller than they were in the previous mandate, to murder more compromise solutions and less emphasis on excessive differences between us. When I congratulate you on these kind thoughts, I would also like to congratulate not only on my own, even on behalf of our Group of Members, I think, which we have heard from both speakers, from our new President, who we are congratulating and who has warned that democracy in itself is not only good, which has warned us that if we do not try to process ourselves, that it will be good, we can also threaten ourselves, and I would like to stress that we agree with most of the thoughts that we have heard from Mr President of the State about the problems and the directions that await us in the future. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that Mr Gantar, together with the vice-presidents, who will almost certainly be elected, will be able to lead this Parliament not only effectively but also wisely. Some of the wisdom in politics cannot harm and no offense, including the life and parliamentary experience of all three vice-presidents, is likely to ensure that this National Assembly is conducted properly, calmly, that it can work effectively and for the benefit of all of us and of all Slovenes and Slovenes. I think it is good to mention that we expect the National Assembly to have more autonomy, more sovereignty than we have seen before, but we have also formed a coalition group of DeSUS members. What little bit of greater independence of the National Assembly is not going to hurt, sooner it's going to do her good, actually it's a "conditiio sinne quanton" that we're going to do well. I would also like to point out that, despite the new crisis that is now emerging and is not new, we will remain the same, that in the future we will have to think first about how to ensure conditions for good, for a successful economy, that we will also have to be sensitive to justice and for other values that lead to a state of prosperity in the future. That we will also have to keep in mind that we must not act brutally towards our environment, that we must also understand the climate and all other changes in the world that have become key and that the financial crisis is just another additional problem and possibly a slightly different connotation, a different focus. As Dr. Gantar mentioned in the introduction, the task of adopting good laws, laws that will solve these problems is appropriate. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that an affirmative position should be taken towards the candidates of all three vice-presidents who will be together with the President, so we are confident that we are properly leading the National Assembly, leading it in such a way that the laws can be really good, that we can effectively manage this society with them, and that we can say that we have sometimes overcome any party or other contradictions with wisdom. All three of them have our full support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Friend, SNS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party this time we will not look at who has proposed anything, and we can certainly say that it is a strawberry choice. All three candidates are people who can be trusted and experienced. I also believe that they will be able to do their job well, this entrusted function. I could also discuss what we wish for in the Slovenian National Party to be on the agenda for decision-making, but this is not the subject of this point. But I certainly want this team to decide more about social issues in the National Assembly and that at the end of this mandate 250,000 people would no longer be dependent on social transfers, but that number would only be 25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presječnik has the floor, SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The envisaged coalition, which will be formed in a short time, has been given a mandate by the electorate to lead the country and I see or is created in the division of leadership in the National Assembly. And that seems like the right decision to make. I know all three candidates for appointment to these very important functions in the National Assembly, and I am sure that they will do their work in accordance with the laws, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, just as I have pointed out earlier, take care of the reputation of the National Assembly, cooperate well with the other branches of government and, above all, cooperate properly with all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, especially those who will work with the opposition. In the parliamentary group, we will follow each of our own beliefs about the suitability of the candidates in the decision-making process, and we will make this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič, LDS Emissary Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, it is also right for me to congratulate all Members of Parliament, Members in this call and, of course, also to offer sincere congratulations on your appointment, Mr President of the National Assembly. I am sure that this decision, with your choice, was also one of those who will make an important contribution to the reputation of the work of the temple of democracy, which today has been a lot of talk. However, I am convinced that, with the proposals of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, we are also making up an extremely important, good team, which will help us not only to label in this National Assembly the law and constitution of the mandated task, that we will not only speak here, we will be able to do what we do many times, but that we will be able to listen to each other in particular. Listening is often what we don't know here. It seems important to me that when we decide on the vice-presidents to decide on candidates for whom we can say without a shred of bad news that they have an extraordinary bibliography, that they have a lot of success in their lives, which they have done so far, that they have passed the job as a guarantee that they will successfully pursue their career and continue to do so. What about someone who has been in this temple since the very beginning as if he had to prove his credibility by his work nonstop and always in elections. What about someone who insisted on a term where the three vice presidents ended up at one and insisted. And what about the candidate who had the ability to run this National Assembly in his previous term. It is people who are guaranteed that, in the face of the diversity that we advocate in the National Assembly, we will be able to seek compromises. Voters in the elections have decided on these differences and compromises. And they expect wisdom from us so that we can incorporate these differences into the laws in a way that their interests can be realized in as wide a number as possible. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support all three candidates because we estimate that they will be able to form a team that will raise the reputation of the National Assembly, which will enhance the reputation of the debate in the National Assembly and help to ensure that the National Assembly will once again become a truly independent institution and that the legislative branch of power will be that independent of other branches of government, because in the past term it has also been a warning on our part that it did not. So at the conclusion, allow me to repeat our support to all three proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic, SD Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President, and your sincere congratulations on your election. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All the proponents who proposed their candidates to these most important functions in the country have made an effort to state in explanation everything that is necessary, which we believe is necessary to write down and justify each candidate. Let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we have encountered a problem because we have written an explanation on both sides. If we wanted to write everything our candidate has done good for parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, we would need much more time and much more paper than we used this time. Anyone who has, at least without delay, monitored the functioning of the National Assembly, since the first elections to our legislative body, has been able to track the active role and participation of Miran Porč. All those who have followed the events in more detail or perhaps even created them in the temple of democracy, regardless of political affiliation, must acknowledge to Miranda Potræ that he has performed all his tasks so far in a highly professional, conscientious, honest and honest manner. The long-standing leader of the Social Democrats Group and its predecessors was elected to the Society-Political Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the first multilateral elections in 1990 and this year for the fifth consecutive time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The group was led by two coalition mandates and three opposition mandates. The work of Mr Miran Potrč, who also served in the last term as a Member, a member of the College of the President of the National Assembly, a leader of the Group of Social Democrats and an active member of the three working bodies of the National Assembly, is probably well known to most new Members and Members. Members and Members, as we have already said today, at the first meeting after the election, we agreed not to propose, despite the most obtained mandates, a candidate of our kind for the President of the National Assembly. Our esteemed colleague Miran Potrč also agreed with this decision. Conscious of the responsibilities and difficulties of the Vice-President city, Members and Members of the Social Democrats we propose and support the best solution we have: Mirana Potrča. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I also convey our decision, our intention to support the other two proposed candidates, such as Mag. Clavoro and Mr. Tsukati. Thus, since the beginning, unlike the last year of the previous term, a 20th Rule of the Rules of Procedure will be respected, referring to the fact that one of the Vice-Presidents belongs to the largest opposition group. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support all three proposals proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u73	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The elections of the general leadership of the National Assembly for the three Vice-Presidents shall also be held in the same way as I said in the election of the President. It will depend on all of this leadership whether the National Assembly in Slovenian public will be positioned as the central body where the legislative authority is exercised and is in fact the temple of diplomacy. And I think we are on track to see today's climate and today's developments show that Slovenia has made democratic progress in the past period. Here was a united clapping at the election of the President, which in the past the current coalition has not been able to do so. Here came the President of the Republic of Slovenia, which I must commend and give weight to Parliament, which the previous presidents failed to do. Here, the President of the Republic of Slovenia stressed the importance of patriotism, which was sometimes branded when we from our customers stressed the importance of patriotism, by, unfortunately, by some parties who form the current coalition. And, of course, I am glad that with this, the President of the Republic gave recognition to the former authorities, the executive and legislative authorities and the leadership of the National Assembly, that we had already put patriotism on the altar of the Slovenian State during that period. We have introduced, if I may say, two national holidays, Maistrov's Day and the Day of Joining the Primor home country. These were outstanding contributions, which we must be proud of and which the President of the Republic has also noticed. Once again, the current candidates in the role of Vice-Presidents have extraordinary experience, an extraordinary political career, and will be able to contribute to moving on this path. Of course, as a politician, I must say that I am not troublesome to anyone, but that the Social Democracy has decided not to have a Parliamentary President from the same party, according to their executive power, I think it is more of Mr Pahor's credit. That this was his decision, which he had to report through the media, and that only after I had learned, with a bit of teeth scratching would the party have confirmed it, otherwise this manoeuvre would probably have failed. And I must admit that I do not doubt Mr Pahor's democratic moves. I have this experience. I hope that this has worked for the entire party, has not always been the case in the past, and I hope that this will be the case in the future. Of course, I must also say, when we are talking about democratic movements and the democratic tradition of the previous call that we have supported the two Vice-Presidents of the opposition, consistently, Mr Pecat and Mr Pavli, that they have been elected. For a later split, the breakup of the Liberal Democracy caused by rivalry and opposition within the opposition cannot be held accountable. The consequences of this rivalry, these consequences of the break-up of the Liberal Democracy, cannot be attributed to the then coalition, to the then government parties, who were extremely insistent on democratic standards. This leadership, colleagues and colleagues is tasked with putting authority, dignity and dignity and the importance of the National Assembly and democracy in Slovenia in the right place. In this context, the issue of the immunity of Members is also extremely important. Yesterday, I heard that a Member of the National Assembly would be tried for words in the National Assembly. I fear that this frowning will again be brought before the Supreme Court, as was the case with Mr Praise, and the Supreme Court will reject this. And I think, Mr President, it is a duty for us to accept the statement that this is something unheard of. That those who threatened in this assembly have here a document, a Slovenian country - the future that the army will carry out its task of attacking Slovenia, which later happened, is being persecuted by members of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is the shared responsibility of all of us and responsibility, because this Institute of Immunity in Slovenia is not adequately resolved. [[...]] One more time. Important recruitment tasks as well [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Borut Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u75	Thank you very much, President. If it is known after the morning, then we can say that the work in the National Assembly will be successful and that we will be properly guided by Members and Members. Support to the President exceeded the division into position and opposition. I am convinced, however, that we can be even more supportive as regards the proposals for a Vice-President. I'm not going to comment on all three excellent proposals. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and I will support all three. Not because one of them comes from the biggest opposition party, but because he deserves it. What else would you say? I remember, just four years ago, when I was elected as an MP, we were also greeted by President Drnovšek. But to all of us, I want a good and successful work, to the President and to all three Vice-Presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u77	Thank you again very much for your word. In view of the support expressed for the three candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who are likely to be elected, I am of the opinion that you too, Mr President, will be significantly easier to manage this institution than was the case in the previous term, as all three candidates are very competent. Mr Cukjati, as President of the National Assembly, who, as I have already mentioned, has proved himself to be an extremely professional, democratic leader, as well as Mr Klavora, because they have both played their part in favour of the work of the National Assembly. Nor am I expressing any dilemma on the professionalism and experience of the candidate, Mr Potrč, if he uses all this experience and his knowledge in favour of democracy and also the constructive functioning of the National Assembly. And I am sure that the work you, the President, can, as well as us Members, be made possible by professional work. But I would just like to comment on some statements by the predecessors that it was the failure of the vice presidents to vote on the side of the coalition. Of course, we firmly reject that. If, at the time of the vote on support for the new candidates for the Vice-Presidents, the participation of the opposition Members was sufficient, they would certainly have been elected, because there was no vote or two for the election, which means that if there were more meetings, there would certainly have been a Vice-President of the opposition. Thus, this guilt does not in any way come to the former coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u79	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! Maybe it's a little easier to talk when there's fewer lights and when we're actually talking to each other. Don't mind me for the first time as a new recruit in this National Assembly, but I think it's appropriate for me to say a few words in this good atmosphere today about things, how I have experienced the National Assembly myself when I was outside, and how I see it now that I am part of this National Assembly. First of all, I must say that I will be very happy to support all three candidates for Vice-Presidents. I think we can congratulate ourselves, in fact, on having such excellent people, and together with President Gantar, I think we have the assurance that the National Assembly will be guided at any time by the highest standards of culture and politics and democracy. It also seems to me that today, as some of us have seen each other on various occasions before, at various hearings when I was leaving for the ambassador, a short time when I was an outside minister, I do not see any sworn enemy, much less any enemy in this National Assembly. It seems to me that one very good starting point for my work. However, I think it is also the right starting point for all of us to work and for the cooperation that is necessary in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is a mirror of society, a mirror of the state. After the debates we are having here, according to the content we are dealing with and how we are dealing with them, the world is judging us. We have also recently received some evidence that debates in the National Assembly are taking place far and wide. We are therefore committed to its debate and the democratic nature of these discussions. I am confident that in this mandate we will have to give more space of competitiveness than ever before and put competition aside at all costs and negotiate much about Slovenia's common strategy. I would not join now in guessing whether we are already in crisis or not or will we be soon and so on - the world is changing and in this world Slovenia will have to redefine its development potential, its potential, its position. We can only do this if we work together. I think it is appropriate for me to give this first performance a tribute to the Government which led Slovenia in the previous term and to you colleagues who are now in opposition. You have led Slovenia in one moment, which in many respects was extremely crucial for the affirmation of this country and you have done your job well and I think that this recognition should be expressed here. I would also like to thank Dr Cukjat for his culture of leading the debate and also for some good will that he can maintain in relations when we met and were politically on various sides. Let me conclude by thinking that a minority should be respected in the National Assembly. I think we need to avoid interference with procedural tricks. Procedural tricks sometimes lead to short-term success, but they are not the most democratic means and are not allowed in Parliament. Maybe in the end I'd just say that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We must resolve the reputations of the Parliament, which has a voting machine. The voting machine is a poor and very typical Slovenian category. I think we need to look for synergies, that we need to look [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u80	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of applicants, so I am closing the debate and moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the election of Vice-Presidents, the Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups have forwarded me proposals for the members of the committee that leads the vote. These are: Mr Alexander Ravikar, SD, Mr Robert Hrovat, SDS, Mr Vili Trophynik, Mr Res and Mr Guido Kres, SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? I'm guessing there's no opposition. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. Ambassadors and Members will receive three votes. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted that the word "for" or "against" shall be encircled on the ballot for each candidate. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, candidates for which the majority of all Members will vote for the Vice-Presidents will be elected, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 3:10 p.m. and will last until 3:30 p.m. and we will meet again at 3:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-10-15-SDZ5-Redna-01.ana.u81	Dear colleagues, Members and Members! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the hearing of the 4th item, which is the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote, first of all the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, Miran Potrč. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 15 October 2008. 88 ballots were distributed, 85 ballots were delivered, 3 ballots were invalid, 85 votes were valid. The "yes" was voted by 72 members, 13 members "against" were voted on. [[Let's hear it.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Miran Potrč was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. And, of course, I congratulate him! [[Let's hear it.]] Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly of Magi. Your Clavori. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 15 October 2008. 88 ballots were distributed, 88 ballots were delivered, no votes were valid, 88 votes were valid. "For" was voted by 84 Members, "against" by four Members. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Mr Vasja Klavora was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, France Tsukati. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 15 October 2008. 88 ballots were distributed, 88 ballots were delivered, two votes invalid, 86 votes valid. "For" was voted by 79 Members, "against" was voted by 7 Members. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, France Tsukati was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. They shall, of course, be signed with all members of the Commission. Once again, I congratulate the newly elected Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and wish them much success in the performance of their duties. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Proposal for a Decision on the establishment and tasks of the Committee on European Union Affairs. At its meeting on 13 October 2008, the draft decree was submitted to the assembly by temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I do not see anyone answering, so I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision, we are moving on to a decision on the decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm going to six. Agenda item - Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the European Union. In accordance with Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we decided with the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and Members of the National Communities at the meeting on 13 October 2008 that the post of President of the Committee on European Union Affairs should belong to the Member of the Group of Social Democrats and the Vice-Presidents of the Committee to the Group of Zares and the Group of the Slovenian National Party. The interim leader of the Group of Social Democrats announced that she was proposing to Mrs Darjo Lavtijar Bebler as chairman of the Committee, and the interim head of the Zares Group proposed to Mr Frank Jury as vice-president, and the interim head of the Slovenian National Party's Group proposed to Mr Bogdan Barovic as vice-president. You have received a motion for a decision appointing a President and two Vice-Presidents of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The representatives of the parliamentary groups who have proposed candidates for president and vice-president would like to further explain their proposal? I see you're not picking up. Would any of the Members like a word on this proposal? Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak, once again, so that we will be perfectly correct? [[No, no, ……]] That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Does anyone want to discuss these proposals? Since no one wants to discuss this, I conclude and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on European Union Affairs. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the first meeting of the National Assembly. But I invite messengers and Members to the courtyards of the great hall. Thank you very much.
