ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Majda Zupan from 12.00 p.m., Mr Samo Bevk from 6 p.m., Mr Aleš Gulič, Mr Matjaž Han and Mr Marko Pavliha. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complements of Housing Law, Summary Procedure. Dear Members and Members! I must inform you, as you can see, that there is no Minister and Secretary of State because they are detained. And the memo is being forwarded. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Could you please allow me to explain? Mr. Anderlich, let me explain. Thank you very much. From the Ministry of the Environment and Space, a letter was sent to the College to allow Mrs Metka Černelič, Director General, and Dr. Samo Kopač, v.d. the Director-General. That's up to the college. However, since the college from 8.30 on is already in session and has not yet reached this point, I suggest we wait at least 10 minutes. Mr. Bricel is here. With this, my information is a little different and we're continuing the meeting. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mitya Bricel, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Respected [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to give the floor to a representative of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Excuse me, Dr. Bricel. Procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Squire.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Excuse me! Allow me, Mr President, because the matter is about the same as you have suggested in some way. There is still a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, and there are also some representatives who I believe would be happy to listen to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this additional explanation. Therefore, I think it makes sense to suspend the meeting for as long as the College of the President of the National Assembly is closed, and we will continue to do so. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I'm a college member myself. And I had to come to this duty and conduct the session. So please, if we can proceed. Mr. Secretary of State. Yes, please, Mr. Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I also suggest that the meeting be suspended. Because I just came from a meeting because I had to leave the meeting so that I could present here the position of the Group of Members. But that committee has become unconscionable at the moment. And such organization of work as we have in the National Assembly would be recommended in Butala.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	I personally join procedural proposals as they were given. Of course, it can be different. It is necessary to decide what the advantage is. And I understand that the meeting of the National Assembly is called for at nine o'clock. And it is probably necessary to stop the work of all other working bodies, as has happened on two already working bodies. We have also completed the work of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission for a minute to nine, not that we have some parallel work and is being violated by the President of the College himself. But we can't be here in session right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Your procedural proposal is?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	My procedural proposal is that the professional services ensure that only this meeting takes place when the meeting of the National Assembly takes place. It is therefore necessary to suspend the meeting of the College or of the National Assembly. Not that we have a situation right now, I'd say.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac. Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that I fully agree with what Mr Rezman has said. We were both on the Internal Policy Committee, which we had to leave because we had a position to take on this law. This committee also addresses some of the amendments tabled by us in the Lipa Group. And we simply no longer know whether to defend the amendments that we have proposed to one law or to present positions here. I would seriously ask that the organisation of work in this house or that the professional services do such an organisation of work so that we can be present both at the plenary session or that all committees stop immediately, and we wait another ten minutes. In the meantime, the College is also holding meetings so that all Members can attend the plenary session, listen to the Government's presentation and then continue to work normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Friday, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	Sure. I'm adding to these "mante coats" circumstances that rule here, next. So, I led today from eight to nine sessions of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and explained how, according to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot work at the same time as the National Assembly, and therefore broke it at nine. We discussed a very important topic: damage to state property in the General Navigation of Piran. And that is why I am also protesting that this President of the National Assembly is doing this at the same time as the Rules of Procedure tell us that we are not doing this in this way. And that's why I'm joining those who suggest we stop this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, excuse me. Here you go. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	I'm moving on to the 7th item of the agenda. Before that, I must inform you that the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly has been concluded. The College did not approve the request that someone else represent the Government's opinion instead of the Minister and Secretary of State. That's short. Since the Secretary of State is present, please state your views on this point. Thank you. By the way, I've also informed the College that there have been more meetings than you've told me. Please, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The new amendments to the Housing Law are a result of numerous findings, assessments, as well as notices of observed shortcomings in the implementation of the Housing Law, which we have observed at the Ministry of Environment and Space through professional monitoring of the implementation of the law in contacts with municipalities, administrative units, public housing funds and interest associations, as well as many owners. Amendments and additions to the Housing Act do not change the basic systemic solutions in the housing sector, but usually constitute an upgrade to the existing state of affairs, an existing system governed by the law. The most extensive additions concern the area of governance, subsidisation of the lower part of market rents. The competence to act as a house inspection shall be extended. Investment and partnership are being set up. The most important additions and amendments introduced by the law are: 75% consent for certain transactions. Decisions on regular implementation and adoption with more than 50% of the consent have been made following the regulation so far. But for all other decisions, with 100% consent. According to the new, more than 75% of the consent would be sufficient to carry out permitted activities in the part of the apartment, by amending the mutual agreement and for improvements for which no building permit is required. The amendment to the Housing Act provides for the adoption of a new subcontracting act, which will more precisely divide the execution operations, into individual decision-making procedures. More specifically define the tasks and responsibilities of the manager and determine the key division of operating costs. All in favour of facilitating and operating in multi-housing buildings. The bill gives the resident inspector new authority to order the removal of devices. In practice, it is most common for air-conditioning installations to be installed by the floor owners without the appropriate consent of the other floor owners, which will help to reduce disputes in court. Some suspensions that have not been sanctioned so far have also been re-sanctioned, which will contribute to greater commitment to more efficient management of the multi-family building. The chapter on leases does not essentially change the novelty ratios. As a result of the protection of the family, it is complemented by only one article, namely, by the exceptional continuation of the rental relationship in the event that the tenant permanently goes to a nursing home, to create a new family or to move to a new apartment outside the place of residence. This supplement is also explicitly supported by the Ombudsman. The new law also provides for subsidies to renters in market apartments who have been waiting for a non-profit apartment for a long time and to housewives. Both categories of tenants will have to meet the income and property conditions applicable to beneficiaries of subsidised rent in non-profit apartments. This would relatively quickly alleviate the material hardship of some tenants, who are forced to rent apartments on the market due to the substantial under-supply of renting apartments, in particular in larger cities. The applicant estimates that around 400 families would benefit from such a subsidy. Housing subsidies will be provided from the State budget. Funding for the subsidisation of marketed dwellings from the republican and municipal budgets, from one to one half. The additional obligations to be incurred by municipalities in connection with the subsidisation of rents will be taken into account in the calculation of the average from including 2009 onwards, in accordance with the applicable methodology for calculating the average. The Novela introduces the addition of the law by defining the terms "co-investment" and "partnership" in order to expand the functioning of existing non-profit housing organisations, while at the same time increasing the role of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of non-profit housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Petan, Chairman of the Committee for the Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Environment and Space addressed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law, which was sent to the Government for consideration, with a proposal to be dealt with in the short term. At its 133rd meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposed law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Economic Chambers of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and also the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly sent the bill under consideration to the mayors of the municipalities and other municipalities. Opinions came from the Municipality of Kranj, the Municipality of Piran, the Municipality of Velenje, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Public Medočina Apartment Fund Maribor and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. In the introduction to the law, the Minister for Environment and Space explained that the proposed amendments to the supplement were the result of the needs which had been demonstrated in the four-year implementation of the 2003 Housing Act. The need to amend, upgrade and supplement the law has been demonstrated, in particular, by improving the area of governance, subsidising rents, acting as a house inspection and co-investment and partnership. He also presented some of the solutions in more detail. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that, despite the amendments tabled and further clarifications made by the Minister for Environment and Space as representatives of the proposer, certain issues remained open in their opinion. These issues are of concern to the area of property and legal relations, and in this context it has drawn attention to the issue of the protection of minority high-level owners. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the question remains whether the extended guarantee of owners of non-profit dwellings for the obligations of tenants, as provided for in Article 3 of the Law, would also apply to the relationship concluded prior to the entry into force of these amendments. And if so, whether the guarantee also applies to obligations which have fallen prior to the entry into force of legal amendments. The bill was also addressed by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the Council of State and supported the bill. However, it gives certain concerns to individual solutions. Thus, it considers that in the event of the adoption of the amendment to Article 24 of the Housing Law, it is necessary to provide that the manager is obliged to inform the owners of the apartments of the non-payments and, in the case of outstanding obligations, to recover the claim in accordance with the compliance of the good owner. The Committee held a discussion and vote on the individual articles of the law and the amendments tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the second reading of the law. In doing so, the Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 24. After a discussion on the individual articles of the bill and after the discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Law is prepared on the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, which is also an integral part of the report of the Committee. A representative was also appointed on the committee to present the above-mentioned text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. We note that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the housing law does not solve current problems in the area of housing care, or even more - introduces new inconsistencies in the implementation of the housing law. In fact, the solutions that are recorded maintain inconsistencies in the relationship between managers and owners of apartments or those who have regulated essential property and between those who do not yet have an orderly property. In addition to the housing law, we should certainly also change the Real-Legal Code on this issue, allowing or opening up the possibility of some new constitutional judgements on this subject, which is trying to resolve this law in one of its articles. In addition, the law abolishes the register of leases. This eliminates the minimum control of housing, which could lead to the establishment of a black rental market. This is a new inadequacy that will bring new problems in this area, which is extremely important. The same is true of tenants who have leases concluded either in public apartments or in ownership apartments. In fact, the continuation of the rental relationship for relatives in the event that the tenant is evicted from the home of an elderly citizen is extended to the possibility of renting his or her relatives only if the tenant has stayed in a public apartment. However, if a rental relationship was concluded in a private apartment, relatives would not have that right. We can talk about discriminatory treatment of tenants in commercial and private housing. On the other hand, we can talk about privileged tenants in public non-profit apartments. However, we would like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has also identified this issue, which has already ruled that the subsequent distinction between tenants in private and public housing is not permissible. Also rents, we must point out in particular the fact that all those tenants who have their contracts with the owners of the apartments returned to them in the denationalisation process. We can speak of such tenants being sentenced in the long run to be evicted from their long - term homes under this law. Subsidisation of rentals in market apartments is also lacking. In fact, market rent as achieved on the market is not taken into account. But it's just a recognized lease. But the difference is essential. If we look only at the situation in the central Slovenian statistical region, the real market rent is 12 to 14 euros per square meter. The recognised market rent moves about €7 per square meter. The subsidy is recognised only from this reduced seven euro per square metre. Of course, we can imagine the situation of tenants in market apartments. And this law will in fact not bring them any additional relief. That is why we have also tabled amendments to all these articles, which would, of course, facilitate the relationship of tenants and provide them with a more suitable solution to the housing problem, so that instead of four hundred tenants, as far as the proposer intends to solve them through subsidisation, we want the Social Democrats and the amendment to enable six thousand tenants to access the subsidy under better conditions than this law. Unfortunately, we also failed, for procedural reasons, to extend the deadline for the relationship between tenants living in denationalised apartments and between the owners of these apartments in order to resolve this problem in accordance with this law. In October, this solution will no longer be possible. Unfortunately, however, the extension of this deadline was not possible. That's why we won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of the Government! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that today, if the Government is aware of all the problems in the residential area, we should focus on how to create conditions in our country where housing will be both marketable and non-profit accessible. So with a burning problem that concerns mainly or only younger generations. Instead, we are trying to solve problems with the novelties of the housing law, which are the consequences of a lack of careful housing law in 1991, which has made it possible for social property to be acquired in the residential area. Or, like the new law that we are considering today, we are trying to make the current housing law more viable, or we are trying to solve the acute problem of the present rentals of market apartments with individual partial measures. This does not mean, of course, that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, for example, the simplification of the housing sector, the extension of the subsidy scheme also to tenants of market dwellings, the promotion, construction of dwellings, in particular non-profit rentals, with the enhanced role of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of co-investment and partnership with local communities and private investors, we consider unnecessary. Just the opposite. We support most of the changes and feel welcome. We only consider them insufficient or even relatively irrelevant in terms of solving the pressing issue of the accessibility of dwellings in our country. In the LDS, we must point out that the Government has not led any housing policy in this mandate and that developments in this area have been more or less stable over the past four years, which is a good reflection of the further rise in housing prices and market rentals. With regard to the solutions brought by the novels, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to reiterate the Government's position on the amended article 29 of the Housing Law, which highlights only the so-called individualised concept of co-ownership and its consequences. This view in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is rejected. For we believe that the individual owner must also suffer some limitation on the co-ownership if it comes from the common interest of most owners. This is said to be more than 75% of all co-ownership shares. Unfortunately, in real life, it is often impossible to reach 100% consent of all owners to make the necessary improvements. For example, for the subsequent installation of the elevator. Although interested level-holders are willing to assume the full financial burden of the investment. Just after installation of lifts is often necessary to ensure the basic mobility of some high-level owners. Without them, they often can no longer enjoy their property rights and are forced to move to relatives or, for example, to homes for the elderly. The corresponding amendment, which would already satisfy more than 75% of the consent of all co-ownership shares, also for improvements to which a building permit is to be obtained, has strongly rejected the mother’s working body. Therefore, we will also support the amendment to the third paragraph of Article 29 of the basic law, which introduces such a solution into the legislative text, in this consideration of the bill in the Chamber of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We will also support the other amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups. In particular, an amendment which introduces more living conditions for obtaining a subsidy to payment of market rent. Finally, it should be noted once again that the solutions brought by the new law in terms of resolving the pressing issue of housing accessibility in our country are insufficient. It is sufficient to state that, according to the Ministry of Environment and Space, there will be up to 400 eligible rent subsidies from all tenants in our country. In LDS, we will always support measures that improve the housing security of our citizens and citizens. Even though they will have relatively small effects, as in the case of the consideration of the novel of the housing law. We will therefore support the proposal for amendments and amendments to the housing law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia if some amendments to the opposition are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Good-bye! Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the housing problem today is one of the major problems of municipalities, countries. It means citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens. For many young people, the housing problem must be a major obstacle to family creation. But it's not just about getting housing. There are other problems in this area. Management problems, as regards inspections, and the appearance of the black market, and I could count on a lot more. In New Slovenia, we are confident that this novelty of the housing law will solve all serious problems overnight. But we are pleased and welcome the good solutions that this law brings. That is, we believe that it is a very good solution for the management of dwellings, with regard to interference with multi-residential landowners, that you no longer need 100% consent from all these owners. This limit is reduced to 75%. Which means it'll be a lot easier to work. Above all, the novelty will make it possible for the inspector to work effectively in cases of illegal actions by the floor owners in common parts. What's been a pretty big problem right now. I must say that in New Slovenia we also welcome the solution relating to subsidisation of market apartments or market rents. We know that so far, local communities have subsidised non-profit rents for all those who have fulfilled this censorship. Indeed, those who applied to the local community’s invitation to grant non-profit apartments and did not receive these non-profit apartments have somehow arranged for their homes, private dwellings with private people. And you're shorthanded. I am of the opinion, as well as in the New Slovenia Group, that this is also necessary, it is said that the same proportion of subsidisation is guaranteed to those who have non-profit dwellings. We are also pleased that half of this will be contributed by the state budget and half by the local community. Well, given that we were supplementing the Law on Community Financing yesterday, which brings more financial resources to the municipalities, we will certainly be all those congregations that take this matter seriously, even take it seriously, and will also make certain financial provisions for this area. I would also like to mention that the congregations have many municipalities with a substantial housing fund. And with regard to the collection of rents, all local communities should be aware that these are strictly earmarked funds or that they are earmarked funds and should devote these financial resources back to the restoration or acquisition of new housing units. And if local communities were to do all of this seriously, there would certainly be a lot more housing units in individual congregations. We also welcome this solution to the problem of housing based on public-private partnership or co-investment. I must say, many of these projects have been carried out by the congregation. Now that this is also clearly defined in the law, I am sure there will be more. And that in the end it will be the satisfaction of all three. It is said that the local community, the co-investor and all those who will acquire the apartments on this basis. Yesterday there was also on the Committee on the Rebalance of the State Budget for 2008, where five million more funds are also allocated to the Housing Fund. The housing fund will also accomplish a number of things this year. I would conclude that there are many residential units in Slovenia that are unexploited. In New Slovenia we believe that more will have to be done on this segment. There's a lot of houses that are empty because they've moved elsewhere. And if we could get this project right, we could do a lot of things in terms of solving housing problems in the future. We will certainly support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support changes in the law following a reduced procedure, as they have proved necessary and are the result of the needs that have emerged after the four-year implementation of the 2003 Housing Act. In particular, it is essential to improve and more precisely define provisions in the areas of management, subsidisation of rents, housing inspection and co-investment and partnership. It is necessary to facilitate the management and maintenance of multi-housing buildings. In Slovenia many buildings are not yet included in the property. Which, in the practice of managing the ownership group, means ambiguity, complications and unequal position of the landowners, because they are not subject to the law-formal housing law. It is necessary to clarify and eliminate the duality of legal bases which make it unclear on which co-owners are obliged to proceed. Indeed, the housing law in Article 8 provides otherwise. Article 32 of the Housing Act is otherwise the same or similar material, obligations or right to be included in the Agreement of other co-owners before or after the division of the floor property. It is necessary to regulate the management of activities in the residential area. Regular maintenance and fair sharing of costs among owners should also be ensured. Which is also to be taken care of by an administrator who, in the case of outstanding obligations, has to recover claims in accordance with the principle of a good master. Housing inspection will facilitate control, ensure such a state of multi-housing building, enable its normal use and ensure conditions for efficient management of multi-housing buildings. 124th Article of the Housing Law thus provides for supervision of the exercise of public interest in the housing sector. The needs for non-profit apartments and rental subsidies are certainly high and higher given the assessment that there are around 400 possible beneficiaries throughout Slovenia to subsidise market rents such as opportunities. It is therefore necessary to draw up precise criteria and fair criteria to be laid down by a government regulation. As is known, the criteria for subsidising market rents on income prices are even more stringent than for obtaining a non-profit apartment. Moreover, it will not be able to obtain a subsidy which has not been included on the final priority list for non-profit dwellings. However, the criteria will be finalised and detailed by the government regulation. In line with this and with the amendments to the law, implementation of this will be improved in our view. Therefore, there is no reason for these amendments and additions to the Slovenian People's Party's Group not to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dr Pavel Gantar will give the opinion of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Your Honor, Mr Secretary of State and co-workers! Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we have really examined the changes and additions to housing laws and we find that these changes can be classified into three categories. Firstly, some urgent and rapid changes also need to be made to correct and supplement certain provisions of the law, thereby allowing it to be applied more effectively. Then there are the second category, provisions allowing for subsidisation of rents in less-income tenants' market apartments. And the third category, the provisions on public-private partnership to accelerate the construction of non-profit housing. And by the way, they're doing it in a very unfortunate way. We support the first set. In particular, certain provisions on house inspection and other provisions with a clear exception as regards the deletion of provisions on the register of leases. The argument that such contracts are registered on the tax administration does not mean anything to housing managers and to the policy in this area because these data are classified. The other two sets of amendments are the result of a failed housing policy in this mandate and are only trying to mitigate its consequences. The fact is, we have to face the fact that in recent years, the housing fund has somehow managed to get into the market, or into the non-profit sector, about 300 apartments a year. Not much, but 300 flats. This year, when we are on the Committee on Environment and Space, the Director of the Housing Fund could not explain what this number would be. It was calculated in the newspaper Finance, 35 apartments. After the projects of the past years were completed, the matter stopped. We'll have 35 new apartments this year. The National Housing Savings Scheme is maintained, which has fulfilled its task and is unnecessary for us to take it forward. In some ways, the housing savings scheme has succeeded in somehow eliminating itself. But it should also be abolished by the state. Subsidy of market rents is, I think, a useful proposal and needs to be supported in principle. Every euro that goes to low-income families is more than the euro, even though it will be subsidised by recognised and not by actual rents. However, at least part of this subsidy can be expected, especially where housing demand is significantly higher than the offer, to move at least part of this subsidy to higher market rent prices. We asked about this calculation. We didn't get any data, and we hope it's as close as possible. We are particularly disturbed by the fact that, if I may say so, it is in a good way a gift to these families. That this gift given by the State would have to be paid to the congregations by half. Large urban municipalities will be particularly affected here: Ljubljana. It is estimated that Ljubljana will have to contribute approximately half. It is worth 200 000 euros out of about 490 000 euros as much as the entire country should have. You took the Ljubljanas last year 60 million euros and you are charging it again with additional costs. That's not how it works. Therefore, the amendment proposes that subsidies be paid in full by the state budget. We could say that ideas are encouraging around the public-private partnership. However, solutions are extremely risky and risky. Firstly, any construction company or investor can now be declared a non-profit housing organisation. The idea that a private investor on land, given in fact by the municipality, could sell part of the apartments at market price in order to be motivated to build non-profit dwellings is, as recorded, actually extremely dangerous and can lead to a number of forms of corruption. That is why we have proposed an amendment to put an end to this and propose to the country that it should still find better options. As far as the relationship with the law is concerned. If some amendments to the opposition and amendments proposed by the Zares Group are adopted, we will be able to support the law. Otherwise, we will not be able to give support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about housing issues, we probably all realize that we are talking about one of the fundamental areas of the needs of all people. And it would be good for us to deal with them more comprehensively, more comprehensively and not partially, as is now the case with this amendment and the amendment of the law. In this respect, we join those who have slightly greater ambitions or those who have also addressed critical thoughts to the proposal itself. Whether it is the comments of the Association of Mercenaries, it is either the comments we have heard within Parliament or those we hear from the profession. In the DeSUS Group, we will support this amendment and the amendment of the law. However, we are aware that this is indeed a matter of less important changes, less difficult changes. Therefore, this somewhat faster procedure is also allowed. We do know, however, that the correction of some of the mistakes that have been reported to us in recent years will only be a modest correction, a modest improvement and not a solution to the housing problem. In particular, we do not have a comprehensive housing policy to follow. I am therefore afraid that individual problems will also arise in the coming years to highlight the need for new additions and amendments to such legislation. The demandingness and complexity of this problem are not only reflected in the lack of housing. It also shows that we have an unusual ownership structure of dwellings in Slovenia. They show that we have poor housing allocations, that we have very unusually alocate housing needs, that we do not have adequate urban, spatial and other policies, and that we are therefore also shown weaknesses in the provision of buildings, prices for these buildings and ultimately the supply and prices of dwellings themselves. Therefore, in these fundamental problems, these changes and amendments to the law are unlikely to help. But they will settle some things that have turned out to be bad, and that is what we support. We support this because the proposal for amendments to the law is not entirely flawed. It's just not comprehensive enough. We support them because some of the amendments that improve the basic text have already been adopted and because we hope that another amendment will be adopted today from those who are just proposed for discussion and adoption. The main purpose, more or less modest, could be to say that it is more appropriate to regulate the management of multi-housing houses, to accelerate the regulation of interrelationships in multi-housing houses, to regulate subsidies even for those that are not obtained unjustifiably at present, and that by entering private capital it may only intensify the construction of dwellings, which should solve housing problems in the long run. In the DeSUS Group, however, we would like to draw attention to at least some of the weaknesses observed by others. And we also believe that it is a danger to accelerate irregularity in the area of broadcasting, that is, black housing. We don't think it's essential that we license all the administrators as scheduled. For this will probably mean a reduction in their number, an increase in prices and a reduction in competitiveness. However, those who perform more or less the function of sending invoices, recovery and cooperation with lawyers when they themselves cannot and do at least a large part of the very difficult professional tasks that they would be judged to do. We also think that it is not right to share the costs of 50:50 regarding non-profit rent subsidies. And we believe that this courage, which we have had with 75% of the necessary agreement on a mutual agreement, should be for extermination, so that this courage should also be in those areas where it is more difficult to intervene and impose individual top-level owners in multi-housing houses.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! There is no doubt that the common objective is to achieve certain objectives in the drafting and adoption of laws, both by the Government and by this Parliament. The objectives of this law are to amend, upgrade and supplement the law in the areas of governance, subsidisation and co-investment. That is why I am almost convinced that we are all united, that we want to achieve these goals. In a way, of course, the views are different. There are quite a few uncertainties in this law that we have found in the Slovenian National Party. I would also like to highlight them. And maybe if there's time, and if there's a chance, I don't know that we'd find out about these shortcomings. In fact, the first question I am asked is the so-called extension of the subsidiary liability of owners for the operating costs of tenants to owners of all types of dwellings, and not just market or service. Now, I am more familiar with the notion of subsidiarity by working in the European Parliament. And if this notion of subsidiarity is in the same content, this notion in this area is very strange to me if someone doesn't want or pretend to be unable, they're going to have to be different. Of course, it's not right for us to say. The next question that arises to us, respected drafters of this law, is, of course, what has already been said today, the subsidisation of the market rent, the expectation of non-profit rentals and the subsidisation of house rental. Well, subsidisation of the rental of household apartments has been exposed. In this case, it's solved and that's good. However, Article 121 has a number of traps. For the first time, if we take a good look, the beneficiary of the subsidy is the payment of the market rent. It says, "Anyone waiting for a non-profit apartment." We know that these apartments are very small. But we also know that people from experience find themselves quickly. In principle, commercial apartments are slightly more orderly. And, of course, they're going to take advantage of the fact that I wouldn't come next to non-profit housing -- as they say -- "seek a job, but pray the Lord not to find it." I'm already having this experience in two areas. That's the first danger. Another danger is, I don't know, I don't understand or I couldn't read which market price will apply to the recognition of the subsidy. So this will be the difference between granting a subsidy from non-profit rent to market. Now, will this law determine what this market price is, or will we take into account the market price that is actually on the market? This is another danger because everyone - I say to the owners, because the co-owners of the market apartments will, of course, be able to flexibly raise the price of market apartments and rentals for these apartments. Of course, the subsidy will be increased this way from month to month. And the third element, which my previous interlocutor has pointed out, is the sharing of this subsidy of fifty, fifty, with which - I am sorry - I am also the mayor - I find it a little difficult to agree. You already know that municipalities pay subsidies for non-profit apartments 100%. Now we get an extra burden because we also know that there will be a lot of people who will be with 1. 1. 2009 took advantage of Article 121a. For the first time, this is a very large amount of money for the local community. You need to know that, and I believe you know that. And secondly, the way this will be settled, because, as far as I understand, the municipality will have to make a 100% difference, and then, with a request from the state, it will look for this 50%. In this case, I must take the side of the local community. And I'd have another question. I'm not gonna go through the whole thing. In fact, it's very clear that someone's going to get very frizzy about the notion of non-profit. Establish a non-profit organisation that deals with non-profit housing and aims to create a profit. That's a fact. No one can deny it. It is funny to give these organizations the benefits of both the congregation, the Republic’s housing funds, the municipal housing funds, and so on. Anyone who wants to build a non-profit apartment is already building as an investor today. Nobody wants to do that. Everyone wants to build apartments that are as expensive as possible, and of course they want to make as much money as possible. So there's too much hole for profiteers and exploiters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that in the Lipa Group, we would be much more pleased to be dealt with by the housing law on a regular basis, in a slightly broader debate, because we see that the uncertainty is enormous. I think that it is the purpose of every law-making process to regulate a specific area in an integrated manner, not to partially address certain solutions. The way this government works is so clear that even if I didn't mention it, nothing would be wrong. With every law, he offers a populism solution that makes it impossible for you to oppose the law. The rest, however, can be adjusted either to themselves or to cause further confusion. And it's not just about words. Subsidies. Subsidies are a typical populist matter introduced by this Government into this law - to help those who are not supposed to pay rent and thereby subsidize this difference. However, to be subsidised in the manner already stated by one of the speakers after a recognised market rent. The difference between recognised market rent and actual market rent is a minimum of EUR 7 to 10. So, who are we actually going to subsidize? As for the changes that are supposed to be the result of cooperation with the municipalities, I must say that I am very surprised when I read this in the explanation of the law, while I get from all the municipalities that have participated or wanted to participate in the drafting of this law, as well as from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which is supposed to be an organisation that unites congregations, more or less repulsive opinions. If I were to make a percentage, I would say that 80% of these congregations had comments on the above-mentioned law. Let's say, with the phrase, "we find that most of the changes that the bill makes represent an additional burden for the municipalities." And then they even list the articles that determine that. I also heard or read in explanation how we help the tenants. But the Mercenary Association has given its opinion. I don't know if the government got it. So we only got it from the MPs, or she didn't want to follow it. In this opinion, the Association of Mercenaries says: "We note that the proposal for a lease law does not bring about any significant improvements or the necessary changes necessary to address the acute problems in the area of rental relations. The proposed introduction of subsidisation of market rents for housewives and socially weak tenants in market apartments is, in the opinion of the association, already inappropriate and insufficient in itself, as instead of the law enforcement of preventive instruments, which would reduce our dizzying market rents, the State is resorting to curative measures. These are the opinions of those users. That's not my idea. These are the ones that unite in some associations as users as tenants. And here are their opinions on this law you are proposing today. As for so-called co-investment and partnership. Every municipality or majority of municipalities, that I will not offend anyone from the current mayors in this hall, has more or less already built a co-investor, a partner in the construction of apartments. According to the current authority in the municipality. I can tell you, I don't know, not least for the Maribor Congregation. The municipality of Maribor is crystal clear who will be a co-investor or partner in the construction of either non-profit or market apartments. In most cases it is a ratio of half to half, half market, half nonprofit. And then the investor has some use for it. Such a solution as proposed by the Housing Law, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, may also contribute to certain corruption in certain municipalities. All right. In the Lipa Group, we will give support to this law in the light of the amendments adopted, whether or not they will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Any amendment to the legislation on housing issues, which on the one hand allows faster construction of rental apartments and, on the other hand, facilitates the situation of those who pay market rents, is welcome. This is also why this novelty is welcome because it interferes with both segments and we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. As has already been said, the amendment refers to five basic sets that are different or different. In the area of governance, consensus is facilitated in those matters that need to be settled and where it is impossible to obtain 100% consent from all the top-level owners. In the area of rent subsidisation, the amendment also addresses the problems of so-called residential dwellings and allows those who are listed on the priority lists for the allocation of non-profit apartments for rent and cannot obtain them for rent and live in apartments with a market rent to be subsidised by this part of the rent. In the area of rental relationships, a welcome change allows family members to continue the rental relationship, which goes to the home of the elderly or changes their place of residence for weddings or other reasons. I think it's a good novel that comes from practice. I think it is also right to distinguish between the essential property that is included in the land book and that which is not included in the management or operation of the inspection bodies. This is an amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups: New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party. Which we also support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. This comment came from the practice of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I think this change will settle this area. And the most important set in which some see fears, corruption and so on. This is because you do not know the practice because you have never conducted any project in this area. If we did, we'd be talking differently. This is co-investment and partnership in the construction of non-profit apartments. The problem facing Slovenia at this time is that it has been an extremely large expansion in recent years in the area of the construction of market apartments. As many apartments as have been built in Slovenia in the last three years, the entire area of Slovenia, not only in the city centres, has never been built in the past. That's a fact. That's what the stats are talking about. This is the number of building permits issued. This is, after all, also mentioned in the information that the beginning of a calming of price increases, which were actually abnormal. I think it is now the right time for this market building to expire, which will undoubtedly take place because prices will fall, to allow for a more extensive construction of rent-free apartments. And one of the steps in this direction is this novel. Of course, only this provision will not regulate this. On the one hand, we need an appropriate tax policy, involving surplus capital from banks and insurance companies in real estate funds. On the other hand, we need a more flexible rental market. It's okay that the tenants are insured. However, in the event that the tenants fail to meet their obligations when they do not pay the rent, it is unacceptable that the owner of the apartment must cease the calvary of the multi-annual dispute in court before the cancellation of the lease is achieved. This is nowhere in Europe that we are part of. It can't be with us in the future. When the rental housing market is respected by these relations, rights, duties, if met, are true - the rental relationship is solid. If they're in violation, it's flexible. When that happens, on the one hand we will receive many leases now empty ownership apartments. On the other hand, we will receive investments in non-profit housing by private partners, as appropriate return on capital can also be expected through properly regulated formal relations. Of course, with significantly smaller ones, it benefits from the capital market. But he's bringing cash. The real estate market is relatively stable everywhere in the world, except for these last exceptions, which have occurred for other reasons, not so much in this area and allows normal returns to those investing in it. By supporting this novelty in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also support the amendment I mentioned earlier, and we expect that the policy in this area will follow those measures introduced by the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, 27. 5. 2008 I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the new Slovenia, Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. One of the more serious shortcomings of this law is, of course, the regulation of ownership of legal relations. And in this relationship, of course, then further management of individual apartments or multi-housing buildings. The fact is that this area is governed by two laws, the Real-Legal Code and the Housing Law as such. And it is already a matter of legal uncertainty as to how to deal with this extremely important issue. In particular, it is the obligations of owners that are supposed to become high-level owners. And as you explain on two legal grounds, of course it is difficult to reach the goal and achieve effective management and, of course, also the relationship and obligations of individual level-holders. We therefore consider and point out that too little effort has been made to resolve this problem in the preparation of this law. For there is a very serious problem in practice, which is pointed out by those who manage multi-housing buildings. As, of course, the relationship between high-level owners or owners with already regulated high-level property and owners who do not yet have such high-level property is, of course, open and inaccurate. The amendment that has been tabled will not remove all these shortcomings. It can happen that in the future we will also have a constitutional conflict, of course, because it is a legal unclear solution. In fact, I would just like to point out in this amendment that the law in this part is not well thought out, a procedure and an admission to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on these two amendments to Article 1? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Who wants a word? Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, I will very briefly try to justify why this amendment proposal has been prepared and dealt with by those regulations that allow ownership rights to be restricted by 75% of the consent, which is allowed in two cases in the law. It's a case of contract making. And when it comes to carrying out those activities that are called after new improvements. That's good. That's what we support. However, we think it would be good if some other interventions were allowed to be regulated in the same way, namely those operations that otherwise require a building permit. In our argument, we have stated what this is all about. Let me just say why we think this is right - because it comes in practice to absurd situations. When, for example, a road that needs a building permit, a road, or something else cannot be arranged. Because, for example, there are no inheritances of 10, 15 or even more years, because some argue, prove an inheritance, and there is no consensus. It is also not possible to make some improvements that are in everyone's interest when some that are registered as owners are simply not possible to find. Such cases are, of course, in practice, and we are in charge as mayors to solve such problems, facing them. Thus it is not possible, for example, to first measure and then take ownership and book as a public well-being of a functional one. It is indeed a road that everyone is using, unless of course we gain 100% consent. Of course, it is the most dramatic when we do not get this 100% consent because of those who adjust. And so, let's say, an example that could be described without any dilemma, is when a multi-housing building has 50 black-built garages for which everyone agrees to break them, to acquire projects, to build a building permit, to build new garages, and then to re-imagin, someone decides to withdraw their consent between 50 because the neighbor looks over the balcony into his kitchen and sees his wife there. In short, the same one that makes it impossible may park your car on the greenery next to the block and do not allow most people to arrange things so that it would be for everyone's good. Therefore, we believe that this limitation of interference with ownership rights, as in the previous two cases permitted by law, could also be possible in this case, because this could dramatically change the quality of life of people in such multi-housing houses and because it would also be useful for the environment, for the local community and for everyone else. We believe that this is not an excessive intervention into the ownership rights of the high-level owners. Otherwise, we estimate that it is also something that should be problem-stricken and may be arranged differently by someone restricting other rights to the remaining 50 or more owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party. It's meaningful. Perhaps I would add to this content, therefore, to the acquisition or non-requirement of licences where more than three-quarters of such owners are involved, a question which, on the one hand, has been resolved by the Disability Act in local communities. The question is also an elevator, a lift in a multi-housing building, which may be a little bit neater and would, I don't know, to consider, if this amendment were possible, if this amendment were still possible, I don't know if we're a little too late, to add that it would also apply to lifts under certain conditions. That is to say, there would be sufficient consensus between the top-level owners, who together have more than three-quarters of the ownership share, to be able to place an elevator in a building with more than 13 floors. Otherwise, as we say, we will support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Two more have been reported. Mr. Christian Janz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! What the motioner wrote in explanation of this amendment, where I personally see no reservations, why not support it. In life, in practice within local communities there are such strange things happening, why there are some things that cannot be obtained 100%. There is no argument. But there's no agreement because they're such or otherwise resentful. Such and other obscenities, such and other unreasonable decisions not to gain them. By doing so, I think we could and would deny the way to the finish line. However, the purpose of the law is, and not least, general practice in the local community in order to make some improvements, both of them and of others, as soon as possible. And if this is possible, if there are no special reservations, some arguments against these pardons, so to speak, I would gladly support this amendment. I think he would be positive, well-intentioned and would deprive many of the ways, time, and above all gray hair to a certain goal that you have in such and different interventions into multi-level property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	We will also support this amendment to Article 29 in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The amendment was proposed by the DeSUS Group. It also seems important to us that we bring into law three-quarters of the consent of the high-level owners for certain improvements that require a building permit. A typical example is the construction of an elevator in a multi-family, multi-story building. I think there are many such cases in Slovenia. Because of the opposition of a handful of high-level owners, such an improvement is impossible to make and thus reduce the mobility of these owners of multi-housing buildings. Such an intervention, however, requires a building permit. I hope that there will also be so much sense in Members or Members of the coalition parties that this amendment will be supported. Because I think there are a lot of cases in life that need to be done. Of course, for those improvements, it is necessary to obtain a building permit. And if there is no consensus, a hundred percent, of high-level owners, then such an improvement is impossible to make. I therefore stress once again that the LDS will support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Look, Mr Rezman's colleague's explanation was really in place. But he really did explain those things that present a problem today. I would only point out that, you know, that intervention where it's necessary to obtain a building permit is not just that. All we have to do is watch the object. The other thing is now that colleague Jerič was talking about the elevator, too. It's definitely in place. But I do have a question about inside interference. We're talking about improvements in the interior of some apartment block, where maybe from this point of view, who really was disadvantaged, if I may say so. I would support the amendment if it were more clearly specified that this applies to all that is happening because it is really full of auxiliary objects. What my colleague Rezman said about the elevator. However, I am not entirely sure or would ask the representatives of the government or the representatives of the Ministry to give their opinion on what it means in the dwellings themselves. When you do certain interventions in residential areas where a building permit is needed, these are some major interventions in the apartment building itself or then in the event that something is done on the basis of the necessary building permit, some kind of intervention. I'd like to ask if it's possible for the Ministry to tell us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Like most people, I think it's an amendment that should be supported. In fact, the fact that it is necessary to obtain a building permit for a given operation also proves, of course, that the intervention meets certain construction and technical and other standards and requirements required by safe construction. From this point of view, even, you could say, in a way, such an intervention is more secure than improvements that are without a building permit. Although I believe that these are really minor improvements that do not interfere in itself, of course not far from this in the design of the facility or anything like that. On this issue, however, there is one problem. In fact, what if three-quarters of the owners were to determine that they would build an asset? And with this motive, of course, they hurt, say, exactly 25%, who just can't build such a foundation or something. Therefore, I do not know, with a very light heart, I would support this proposal if it were to say: "but at this intervention it must not interfere with the prescribed dimensions of the object which determine the height, width and length of the object." If we wrote that together, it would be a very safe way to accept such an amendment. But I don't know if that's still possible at this stage. He's in third reading, isn't he? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I note that there are no further debaters on the amendment to Article 4. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening applications. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. With the desire to really try to improve the text of the housing law, we have also tabled an amendment to Article 15. Otherwise, we welcome the proposed solution that if the tenant permanently leaves the rental apartment due to the creation of a new family or at the time of moving to another apartment, the permanent departure to a nursing home or a nursing home. However, we are asked a very serious question: Is it and why? This applies only to public housing. Why are such criteria not also applicable to commercial or private dwellings? In this regard, we also draw attention to the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments who are even worse off than others. Also because of the Supreme Court decision, which in one particular case decided that family members no longer have the right to stay in an apartment under the conditions of non-profit rental. So, there are also changes in rights regarding the very amount of the rent. All of this raises really many questions, mainly from the relationship or the relationship in which many tenants are located in Slovenia. Finally, a discriminatory approach to resolving the employment relationship with immediate family members has also been the subject of a judgment before the European Court of Justice, which has made it very clear that it does not allow for discrimination between public housing and private housing. Housing rights must be the same in both cases. Well, the proposer or the government considers that this does not have to be taken into account and that it can make differences between tenants in public apartments and tenants in private apartments. With our amendment, we want to remedy this irregularity and thus at least make some real improvements to the text of this law. And thus to justify the adoption of this law in order to reduce the problems faced by tenants and, ultimately, by the owners of apartments due to unconscionable legislation. Addressing the housing problem is one of the key areas that we need to tackle very carefully. This is also, after all, a constitutional category to provide suitable housing for all residents in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we should pay particular attention to this area and not make any distinctions such as the bill of motion or the government with this novelty of the housing law. I therefore hope, of course, that this amendment will be adopted and that we will make one more serious move in solving problems in the area of the housing economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to apologize to the absent Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, because I will say two, three sentences about his conduct. But I apologize for expecting him to be here, and we had some direct interviews. And today, I believe he's excused to be absent. What am I trying to say? I've asked him some of the questions sent to him about the housing law. He promised a comprehensive solution. He promised the solutions he was supposed to get back a year ago. He promised to have a special conversation with affected groups and within reasonable limits, clearly. He can't take it. He took their proposals into account, apart from the Minister's annual words, and there could be nothing left but a kind smile. None of these promises have been fulfilled. The law came late, dealing with part of the problem. Surely this is not the comprehensive housing reform that has been promised. And I believe there were some communications for renters, especially in residential housing. However, it does not agree on a possible content and a proposed solution to this effect. One of the amendments that is intended to contribute in part to the resolution of this issue is the amendment to Article 15, which we accept as a possible solution for a very narrow group of tenants in public housing. We believe, however, that this group is too narrow and that in any case the right to conclude a contract in the event of eviction would be exercised by the immediate family members, subject to the reasonable application of Article 109 of the Law, even if the housing is returned on the basis of denationalisation. The Slovenian State has always promised the tenants of apartments in denationalised apartments that their rental position would not change. That they will have the right to a permanent lease and that they will have the right to a non-profit lease. This is slowly changing with every housing law or reform. It also changes with case law. Why, I don't know, but one such decision has been taken. It is increasingly evident that tenants in denationalized apartments do not have the rights they were promised under the housing law. All the complaints they make, all the suggestions they are preparing for the Ministry, all the warnings that some Members and Members of the House have given to them - they are warned, they remain beans against the wall. Here and there are no promises, no solutions. This law does not offer this solution either. On the contrary, for some, for example, it even makes their housing situation worse, which is even more unacceptable. I therefore propose that you seriously consider our amendment, which establishes the state of affairs that has been promised by this country, as well as this ministry in this mandate all the time. In order to ensure permanent non-profit rental and the right of immediate family members to enter into a lease for non-profit rent in the event of death or eviction and in accordance with Article 109 of the Housing Law, to holders of residential rights in denationalised apartments will also be granted. And this is the proposal we make in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you. In this case, too, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I will announce that we will support the amendment to Article 15. Indeed, the basic reason is the substance and necessity to accept, namely to eliminate discrimination. The second reason that is important in this case is that who does not want to solve the housing problems that are very large today even in this way if, for example, I think, parents move into a nursing home or some other home for their children to continue living in this apartment. We can solve a new housing problem or have one less housing problem. By saying all this in favor of this amendment. However, I must say, I admit this, I may have a chance to hear the answer that this second paragraph of the proposed amendment is somewhat unclear to me. The ambiguity begins from there from the third line from below "unless it is a family member of the previous holder of housing rights who has the right to continue the rental relationship for an indefinite period and for a non-profit lease upon reasonable application of Article 109". In the first and second paragraphs, we are talking about closer family members, the right to be without a call to stay there. So I don't know, "except" refers. I don't know what he's talking about. This might be a clarification or a little more comprehensible writing or I might have to learn. More problematic in this regard, however, is the definition of a closer family member. I know there are many laws that define what that means. I think that's where the wound cancer is. I, like many others, experience problems when uncles from my aunt's family are also close family members. There are countless such problems. And then he's a half brother who's a close family member. It's just for him who still has a real brother. But he's even a closer family member than this half-brother. And then it's an unfinished story, "never ending story." I expect or think, I suggest that the definition of a shorter family member within the content we are talking about, therefore, of the right to have a housing right and to be in this apartment later, be very important. Unless there is a law specific to what a closer family member is and generally applies to all the laws in which that term occurs. In this case, however, I apologize for my ignorance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch. Please. Anyone else? I'll reopen the application. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	To the already exposed problem, this tenant in a denationalised apartment, if, I would say, the successor to housing rights, has no possibility of applying non-profit leases, I would like to point out further reasons why we have to solve this problem. In fact, we wanted to extend an amendment to one of the articles, which somehow allows for the implementation or resolution of the relationship between the tenant in a denationalised apartment and between the owner. It is the implementation of Article 173 of the Housing Law. We must be aware that even in October of this year, the possibility arises that the tenant could obtain a subsidy to provide a new apartment or leave an apartment that was the subject of denationalisation, the problem would be solved on its own. Let me, of course, point out that this is a very inappropriate one, so in this case still a valid solution, if in fact it had only a subsidy of EUR 250 to 300 per square metre if it wanted to leave a denationalised apartment. We do know, however, that these apartments are worth two, three and a thousand euros per square metre on the market. However, since we were somehow not allowed to extend this deadline for the implementation of Article 173 of the Law for at least three years because of procedural reasons, I would point out that not only will the tenant who permanently leaves the rental apartment not be able to transfer his rental relationship to the immediate family members be particularly reflected again and again on tenants in denationalised apartments. And since they will no longer be able to resolve this law by subsidizing their housing problem, they are, in fact, doomed to stay in this apartment. And then, of course, their immediate family members are condemned to actually lose the permanent housing rights they have, let's say, other tenants in other public apartments. So this discrimination is really something that is a very serious problem in the residential area in Slovenia. I believe that this amendment should also be adopted for these reasons. And at least a little bit of this problem is being solved in the direction of the interest of tenants in denationalised apartments. Otherwise, our interest has already been presented in the Act on the Completion of Denationalisation in order to allow both owners of denationalisation apartments and tenants an equal opportunity to work together to resolve this relationship, this problem. But it was also not acceptable for the majority here in Parliament and, of course, this supplement has not been accepted. We hope that at least this minimum addition to this amendment will receive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	Mr. Martin Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law makes it very clear in this Article that an exceptional continuation of the lease without a call for tender will continue. It is said when a congregation, a state or a public fund or a nonprofit housing organization can do so. It is also said that there are no problems here, or no questions about immediate family members, since this is in fact clearly defined in the lease agreement as to who has the right of residence in this apartment or must also have a registered permanent residence. So the government proposal is clearly defined. In the amendment, I'm not quite sure now that this applies, what the proponents have explained, just for denationalized apartments. You're not gonna convince me that now. I think that's true, what you're suggesting is that, in fact, all apartments, including commercial apartments. And I certainly can't agree with that. I don't know if we'd be adopting legislation here in the National Assembly where the owner of the apartment, who is currently renting the apartment, would have tenants. And that what happens is what the government proposal also contains, that someone has moved away, that now the one who has stayed in this apartment as a close family member has the right to continue the contract. Here I am a little bit different from the one you're proposing. This is an invasion into private property. I don't think we can afford to define this by law here in the National Assembly, as you suggest. So I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	I would just like to add to this the fact that this law also introduces the possibility of a public-private partnership or the construction of apartments with private capital. And if I just go back to this amendment, I can only further justify the opening of a new question: What about the rental relationship in these apartments that will be built with the public-private partnership? Will these rental rights be exercised as in a public apartment or as in a private apartment? This is one of the open issues which, in my opinion, is also not sufficiently defined in this law. But it's a significant difference, as my colleague found out before me. I believe that constitutional rights are already such an important area because of the constitutional category. Such an important right that the relationship between private and public ownership in this apartment is subordinated to that right. Finally, it is about human rights, which the European Court also recognises. And I think it would be right to try to organise ourselves as a full member of the European Union in this sensitive area in accordance with the decision of this European Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	I'm opening the application again. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to two questions regarding the debate on Article 110. First, housing rights and the regulation of housing rights go beyond just a free market decision. Housing relations are always socially regulated. And that's in capitalism. Many people in capitalism are far more honest and better than we are when we thought we could capture everything with a big spoon and those who didn't have the means to buy apartments, disable rights. And second. It must be said that here in large part, especially when it comes to tenants in denationalised apartments, it is not a new right. But it is a struggle to preserve the rights that have been promised to them and which they have already had by law, but by law, through the concrete conduct of new owners with more power and opportunities, tenants are not protected and these rights are changed by new judicatures. It is therefore not right to speak about the granting of new rights. He wants to defend what was promised and given them, but because of the power that the visa holders have for the tenants, especially because the government has a more favourable relationship with the owners than to exercise their lease rights that have already been, the situation is getting worse and changing every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. I would just like to point out that this proposed amendment does not have any direct connection to the way in which housing is invested with one new option given in this law. The so-called public private partnership. How this public-private partnership will be formed depends entirely on potential investors. Public money, municipal money or state money on one side. On the other hand, the money of a potential co-investor. And certainly, if we think about it or think about it like we said before, then it is very unlikely that we will get an investor to be willing to invest in housing. I am of the opinion that it is necessary, or that it will be necessary, to define clearly in the contract this relationship, which will certainly be if we are to obtain a co-investor in a way, this financial construction of housing. But later on - I am so sure - this relationship will not apply then to the surrender of those apartments that this co-investor will have on the one hand and on the other, if I may say so, to the local community. In this case, if this is clearly defined in the contract or the investors will agree on how they will build their apartments, then I am sure that a number of projects in Slovenia will also be created on the basis of a public-private partnership. Not now, however, to explain here what I had previously warned that this amendment applies to all apartments, including private apartments, that now the potential investor will have certain links to local communities after this facility has been built. The matter is quite simple: the local community will acquire, I mean, five apartments and that co-investor ten apartments in such a project. He will manage his own or he will own his own. He'll be able to sell them. He will also be able to rent them and, on the other hand, the local community, which will also own these five apartments. And I don't see any problems here. We do not need to open up any new problems now on the basis of a public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I would just repeat what colleague Weber has already said and relate to what I just heard. Thus, it is certainly more important to have a fundamental right to housing than to have a rental relationship with the law, even when it comes to private property in an apartment. I would like to point out that, when we are talking about a public-private partnership, this partnership is always defined not in such a way that, in the end, each of the partners is the owner of an individual floor unit, but is always common property in all the relevant units. And when it comes to construction in a public-private partnership of non-profit apartments, it is, in itself, condition that these apartments are granted and the rental relationship in these apartments, the subsidisation of the rent and all other provisions are implemented on the basis of the basic housing law. And nothing else. So whoever goes into a public-private partnership as a private partner needs to know in advance. And that's in the law. And here we propose to align the situation of immediate family members later in the case of the removal of the housing right holder from the apartment with the case referred to in Article 109 when the holder of housing rights dies. Actually, there's no difference. And another condition is clearly stated that, if it is a difference between whether the person who is a partner or a resident in this apartment is supposed to be a tenant, he must have the right to a non-profit apartment, to rent a non-profit apartment. Except when it comes to a younger family member. It is said that here is the distinction between one and the other, it is said that when it comes to the normal continuation of the lease relationship, in this case the rent can also be turned into a profit. That could be explained. However, when it comes to a shorter family member in accordance with Article 109 of this Law, this rental right, of course, remains unchanged from the tenant who left the apartment for various reasons. Above all, I would like to say that it is the most important thing to go to a pensioner's home or a nursing home and then the immediate family members are entitled to continue the rent-free relationship. And here I don't think we can make a difference between the congregation, the housing fund, the state and the private owners. Why would we make a difference here? It is said that municipal property, state property, property of a housing fund, a non-profit housing fund, which may ultimately be a person of private law. The Housing Fund is not necessarily owned by a person of public law and therefore indirectly is a person of public law. But he could also be a private. In this case, the property of all these persons is therefore less valuable than that of a denationalising beneficiary. So I have to say, I can't agree with that here. And that is why I will support the amendment of the DeSUS and the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 15. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and DeSUS and the amendment of the Zares Group of Members. Two amendments. Anybody want a word? Check-in is on. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the two amendments, both the Social Democrats' and DeSUS' Group of Members and the Zares Group of Members. Why? Since I come from such an environment as the payment of subsidies, the rent is a heavy burden on the municipal budget. In the municipality of Hrastnik, some 980 dwellings were redeemed under favourable conditions in 1993, and some 43% of them were owned. That's supposed to be about 56% of our apartment rentals out there. And given the under-average salaries in our municipality, which are around 15% behind the national average, the monthly cost or annual cost of renting subsidies is a great burden on the municipal budget. Of course, based on the law, the regulation, the methodology has to be paid off. And thus, some of the development tasks for which local communities are responsible are more difficult to carry out. I would actually be happy if this amendment of the Group of Ambassadors were indeed voted to take over the state budget. I hope so. But if that's not the case, let me just give you some numbers for an illustration. By 2005, when it began, I think, in February, a new regulation on the methodology for pricing or renting non-profit flats and subsidies procedures was in force, in the municipality of Hrastnik we paid about 350 subsidies per year for individual tenants, or the annual cost at that time was, at the time, tolars, about 36 million tolars or strong over 2%, or then 3% of the eligible consumption. The biggest problem not in this area is that such specifics as in our area or in our area in the residential area in the payment of rent subsidies, nor does the Law on Community Financing try to resolve them through the determination of the extent of appropriate spending. Not even the apartment law. I think it's necessary to change that. If we impose certain obligations on the municipalities, they should also be provided with additional financial resources, or through an appropriate level of appropriate spending or average, or in some other way. At this point in Hrastnik we are paying about 155 rent subsidies, or the annual cost is strong over EUR 100,000 or about 2.5% of the eligible 2007 spending. It is true that this additional burden will not be as great as the one I spoke of earlier. However, it is an additional obligation for local communities. I therefore hope that this amendment will be adopted. I also hope, on behalf of all those who, in this interim period from February 2005 to today, have lost the possibility of obtaining subsidies, that these subsidies will be recovered and that this money will provide the state budget. I mentioned earlier that some 200 citizens have lost the opportunity to receive subsidies. We have actually brought all these citizens to the threshold of poverty. This subsidy meant a great deal to them every month. Now that they have fallen out of the range of beneficiaries of this subsidy, it is difficult to survive or reach the end of the month with the money they have at their disposal. I therefore hope that Members and Members of the government coalition will also support this amendment and that this will become a burden of the state budget in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The amendment proposed by the Ambassador's Group, indeed, will be supported. Differences in the actual position of municipalities according to how many apartments are rented and how many properties and differences, what is the standard and what are the options, are large among individual municipalities in Slovenia. I can say very big. We have also heard a lot about this in recent debates, which promised that regionalisation would solve everything overnight, listening to the coalition, as it pointed out how big differences exist today. It is therefore right that the obligation to pay subsidies is not reduced in full or not only to municipalities which then have no resources for many other purposes. But to make it a state obligation. Secondly, what I would like to say about our amendment is the desire to make the conditions and criteria for subsidisation more realistic. There are three things that limit subsidies today. One is an unrealized rental. The second is the restriction on the possibility of obtaining a flat per surface. And the third is social censorship. Everyone substantially reduces the actual rent, the ability to get a suitable home, or their number of family members. And it is also the fact that in the last year's high inflation, the price that is not adjusted to the contrary is such that it makes it impossible for an important round to enjoy the subsidy. We are trying to improve this situation with our amendment and anyone who thinks at least a little socially will support it. Because the apartment is the basis not only for living but also for building a family and a normal life. He's got to be paid. The terms, if you don't pay for it, are very, very cruel. And I hope that the real cost of subsidisation in our amendment will be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As my fellow discussers warned me about the second amendment for Article 16, I would only add to this the fact that it is really necessary to know that we are imposing here on the congregation. We impose on some, in particular, certain additional obligations for which they do not have the resources provided. And in some ways, the State gives some benefit to people by burdening certain congregations. I mentioned earlier that and that large congregations and certain specific congregations such as Hrastnik will be affected, which was very visual and well explained before me. In particular, I think that if we look at housing policy in Slovenia, then we can say that a serious housing policy, which must contain a whole set of measures, should actually be run by some larger housing centres. In some small municipalities, this housing policy - the truth is loving, whether it is good or bad, we can ask ourselves - is limited in fact to providing suitable land for individual family building. And that's about it. And there's a building there for a few ten years, so to speak. So big and bigger cities and coastal centres have bigger problems. However, specific problems remain with some industrial centres and so on. In fact, as I mentioned in the case of Ljubljana, half of all these subsidies, which are calculated here, will fall into payment from the city budget of Ljubljana. At the same time, people from all over Slovenia are moving to Ljubljana, and in some ways an open place is facing a dilemma, whether it should be open or closed. I am in favour of not closing this place down, of course, from the point of view of housing policy. And I would really beg that this amendment, as it was written, be supported. In particular, the fact that Ljubljana has been reduced by €60 million in the last year due to the previous amendment of the Law on Community Financing. As far as the SD Group amendment is concerned, I am in fact in favour of this intention. It's completely consistent. However, it is the delicacy of this amendment in that, in fact, the second amendment becomes irrelevant, since in Article 7, the position is maintained that the municipality should nevertheless contribute half of the funds to subsidize rents. But probably, as I know of this National Assembly, there will be no dilemma as to whether one or the other will be voted. It can happen that there won't be one that would definitely be very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you. Well, let me continue where my colleague Gantar ended up. We are in the Group of Social Democrats in the event of the adoption of this amendment, because we believe that in fact the decision to become the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors is irrelevant, since it assumes that the whole amount of subsidies would be provided by the State, we are taking the solution from this law. They don't really exclude each other. Of course, it is necessary to harmonise the text, the text of the law, if both amendments are adopted. So I can say in a calm manner that we are prepared to supplement Article 121a adequately, so that, of course, it will then be consistent with the amendment proposed by the Zares Group. In addition to this amendment, I would like to point out that we welcome the approach to subsidising rent, particularly for socially disadvantaged families. For they are truly in a very difficult position, when they must pay the rent. And if we look at the analysis of this law somehow, we can find that, say, three family members in a large apartment 50 square meters can claim a subsidy from appropriate social criteria, somewhere in 150 euros. We do know, however, that the rent in such an apartment is between €500 and €700. If we look at the situation in Slovenia, where we find that the average tenant and those with a slightly lower standard of living income are reduced, this is a very serious problem that should also be addressed appropriately in this law. Indeed, the applicant foresees that he will try to rescue some 400 beneficiaries in market apartments across Slovenia. I think that this is really such a small number that it is necessary to ask whether and why only 400 families can be dealt with, why not for example 6,000 as we propose in fact with our amendment also in a way that the subsidy is not charged only from the administratively identified area. For the applicant says that the subsidy can only be applied by the family to a suitable residential area, which is determined administratively. In fact, it resides in a larger area and is then eligible only for this limit. For that larger area, it still pays the market rent. Therefore, in our amendment, we propose to take account of at least a 30% increase in this area in addition to the appropriate area, thus, of course, mitigating this problem in the calculation of subsidies for market rents, while at the same time following. However, it is also a fact that it is not possible today to simply replace the apartment you live in for a suitable apartment on the market. I think the need for an apartment is far from being able to make a quick change in the apartment we're living in. They have several square metres, as is deemed appropriate by law. And by doing so, we want to ease this pressure on the poor situation of families who pay market rent and thereby reduce their standards. In particular, we must also address the problem of housing in this solution. Legislation has not clearly defined the status of housewives or tenants in these apartments - whether it is a non-profit rent or a commercial rent in the case of residential dwellings. The legislation here is not clear. And instead of trying to resolve this confusion, the proposaler decided on a solution that makes renters' housing status worse. Indeed, this law requires them to pay a market rent, even though the applicant could eliminate this dilemma in a way that charges non-profit rents in households. So it is really just a seemingly state aid to try to help residents or tenants in market apartments by introducing subsidies. In fact, house renters or tenants in household apartments have been making housing rights worse, and this is what we have been warning in this law all the time that there is no deliberate proposal to derogate in fact from what the law attempts to show that certain benefits are being introduced, in fact, for a number of tenants, after the adoption of this law, its rental relationship will deteriorate. And that is why we believe that the real acceptance of this amendment is necessary. Let me also say that there is no special news that the state is trying to help with subsidies in market apartments. Indeed, the current housing law allows municipalities to subsidise rents in market apartments, if they so choose, and through the municipal council we adopt an appropriate definition on this issue. The fact is, then, it is the full cost of the congregation if it is decided by the present law. Well, this allows for at least 50% co-financing by the State, which is more favourable, but I stress that according to the criteria introduced by the State or the applicant through this law, access to these subsidies is very limited, in addition to the fact that there is already this subsidy, of course, because of the fact that he lives in a slightly larger apartment than is considered by administrative rules as a suitable dwelling, he does not recognise this difference. In addition, if we add house rental relationships that will be defined as a market rental relationship, this law is unchanged, without the adoption of these amendments, unacceptable to the Social Democrats Group, and we believe that it would be truly worthwhile, including by the proposer, to define positively the solutions that we are proposing in this amendment and that we are actually creating in the National Assembly significantly more suitable solutions for some citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, who already have very large problems today due to the extremely high incentives for food and, last but not least, rents that are increasing and becoming increasingly burdensome for many families in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss the amendment to this article again, I am closing the debate and moving on to Article 25 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! As you can see, the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 25 is proposed. This third paragraph of paragraph 151a, which reads in Article 25, reads as follows: "If a communally furnished or unequipped plot of land is granted as a benefit, a non-profit housing organisation shall have the right to construct a certain proportion of the dwellings for the market on such a plot in addition to non-profit dwellings, as agreed in any case by the partners with the contract." This provision, like some others, of course has a clear objective. It wants to encourage, within the framework of the public private partnership, the greater interest of non-profit housing organisations in the construction and management of non-profit housing. Who can be a non-profit housing organization? In other words, according to the provisions of this law, any construction and investment organization that chooses to do so shall register and so on. These restrictions are very low here. Thus, we must count on classical private investors to enter the non-profit housing market, of course, with a non-profit label and a number of open questions and options open up here, could be said to be corrupt or for public good, for the public interest of harmful behaviour. What does that mean now if he receives an unpaid, communally equipped, unfurnished plot? What does that mean? To be repaid by this investor in a way, not in a monetary way, but in the form of a certain proportion of the dwellings that the congregation or the housing fund, anyone else, will then use for non-profit dwellings. At what price? At a price including the price of the parcel or at a price that does not include the price of the parcel and so on and so on. Who says that this relationship between what he builds for his own needs and what would be unprofitable will meet some of the criteria of right or right relations, and so on, that public funds will not flow into private pockets and so on. Is this not an opportunity to create, you could say, extremely good conditions on the market when you can create additional profits by actually reducing the price of dwellings you have in the land you own? We know that the price of dwellings today, the construction of the apartment as an object, is set to the last euro if you want. We know how much it costs to build, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it costs to build. But it is known where this range of housing construction and price is, of course, in land, location, land, sunbathing and so on. And it is these criteria that can be decisive in this assessment of who will benefit from such housing. I'm not saying this is the way to find a solution. I am not a legislator or a writer of laws, and I do not have these powers, but I should certainly define, limit and elaborate on this matter more precisely in this direction. However, this article or this option has at least one positive advantage, and this is to stimulate or prevent housing segregation. In such areas people would then live, for example, with relatively low incomes that receive a non-profit apartment, and people who are able to pay for their own apartments, which are likely to be financially and sequential, status, slightly more, whatever, these would be mixed areas. From this point of view, solutions in this direction can be useful. But as it is written, I think it is better that we now exclude this, to propose to the ministry, to think a little bit about making a better solution, which could be done without risk, to create conditions for some corruption or opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I'm opening applications. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. I certainly have no doubt about the good intentions of such regulation as the Government has proposed, but in its implementation it raises some questions about the possibilities of corruption or other action in the context of such joint public and private ownership. We do not have much experience in Slovenia in this regard. Where the property is not distributed, things are going normally there, but where the distribution took place, the post Festum was found to be at the expense of public property. But we have so much experience. This amendment, of course, I myself do not agree with the provision which would allow for public-private partnership and such an investment that the provision is eliminated, but that it needs to be supplemented. Because of the procedure itself, it would then be reasonable to accept this amendment, but the Government should prepare a clearer definition in order to avoid any future abuse. This law, not only does it have a flaw in relation to this article, has another in relation to multi-housing buildings with registered and unwritten essential property, where discrimination applies. And in this law, this discrimination has not been eliminated - regarding the use of apartments for rent. We now have many cases in Slovenia when housing is given for a short period of time to certain business partners without paying a tax in order not to comply with the provisions of craft law and other laws. And on this basis, unfair competition is established. Unloyal competition and, in fact, is challenged by those who regularly operate on this market, which regulate these relations and also pay taxes. In short, to avoid such a problem, representatives of the government should be considered to consider and prepare these solutions for the next reading of the law. It is not whether I support the Government or not, I support it, but I support it in solutions that mean preventing monopolies, preventing exceptional situations, whether they are monopolies or unfair competition. Why, though, prefer those who did not sign up for the property to those who did? If it made any sense, it would be the other way around. But you did the opposite here. In such a way that people will not be thrilled to decide on such procedures, and in this regard there is also a consequence for the establishment of activities in such multi-housing buildings. I think it is time for you to prepare solutions, so that the Slovenian space for housing will be more transparent, and also to carry out activities within the framework of housing, within the framework of the permissibility that it will be transparent and that it will not also cause disputes between individual owners or tenants.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you. Well, first of all, we need to know that we can build apartment buildings where we have this spatial act. Article 25 speaks of a communally equipped plot of land or an unequipped plot of land, but we must certainly have this defined by a spatial plan. And I see nothing here disputed as to whether the local community will decide whether to go through a public invitation to build apartments, after some classical procedure, or whether it will attract partners. I would even like to remind you that we have adopted a new Public Procurement Act, where the law stipulates that over a certain value of public funds, by law, you must first publish the tender and give the opportunity to apply for this tender to a private partner. This is what we, I think, adopted here last year in the National Assembly - the Public Procurement Act. I think it's over the border, don't hold my breath now, five million euros. It is said that, in fact, either on one side of the municipality, the local community or the housing fund is also obliged to work under this law and, if it is now defined in paragraph 3, that, as an input, at least I understand it, on the basis of an agreement with the private partner, the value of this plot can, in fact, be considered a good solution. At least that's what I think. Of course, I think it is a good solution because it clearly states at the end of the third paragraph: "what partners agree on with the contract in any case. [[...]] This means that this contract must clearly define the value of this communally equipped or unequipped parcel and, if this is clearly defined, then it is known how much the owner of this parcel was. In doing so, I see no reason why this third paragraph should be deleted from the proposed Article 25.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry, the application is in progress. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you. As explained in this Article, the applicant submits that the analysis of the operation of non-profit housing organisations shows that the biggest obstacle to the construction of non-profit housing is the lack of adequate land. A very clear explanation, but unreasonable actions by the Government after I can point out once again that the Government has transferred free of charge to the Consulting and Management Society of Building Lands owned by the Republic of Slovenia. So one wonderful fund of building land that could be transferred by the Government to the Republic Housing Fund instead of the Society for Consulting and Management, and this problem would be largely solved. Of course, ministries, the general police administration, are being built on these lands today, in short, to solve the housing problem, which is very pervasive. The second thing I would like to point out is the question that really comes to my attention: Can a public and private partner really, really, only with a contract settle a relationship and determine how many market apartments will be on that plot that they agree on? As far as I know, the Law on Public-Private Partnership requires that the municipality prepare an appropriate decision before concluding a public-private partnership. It is only on the basis of this decision that it can approach the selection of a private partner with whom it then enters into a contract. So, I believe that this provision of this Article is truly inconclusive and it would be truly reasonable to support the amendment, to delete this last paragraph and, if nothing else, to at least get the opportunity for the applicant to examine in detail his solution, particularly whether it is really enough that only and only a treaty, without any specific criteria in this law, is sufficient. How and what both a public and a private partner must adhere to in the drafting of this Treaty is an extremely loose provision. On the other hand, I would point out that the Law on Public-Private Partnership itself speaks of the adoption of an appropriate decision and only then of the implementation of contractual obligations. However, it would be extremely important for both of us in the housing sector to agree on this law at least a few basic criteria so that the partners can then agree accordingly. And I think that this weakness could or could be examined until the next reading of this law, if this amendment is adopted, or I think that only one of the open issues proposed by the proposer with this amendment of the housing law will remain to be addressed in the future and we will not be able to talk about successfully solving the housing problems, but that new and new issues will be raised, which will need to be addressed in the future. However, it is more difficult to tackle something when it is already in place than to prepare good solutions and then implement them in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u88	Mr. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u89	Very briefly. First of all, it is clear that we are talking about land and plots, which with spatial documents, the acts are intended for housing. There's no doubt about it, we're not arguing about it at all. What I really wanted to point out is that if we don't change it, I'm sure the next composition, if not, will have to fix it because it's too loose. This has been said many times and stressed. In fact, the whole secret of housing prices is placed right at the price of land and so on. And it is extremely difficult here to define some objective criterion through which a market value is determined and so on, through which we can get to the right relations, which would also define the sharing situation between profit and housing for the market. I therefore point out that there is a general provision - partners with a contract to agree - too little and in these relations is usually such that the stronger party in these negotiations is usually a private partner, not only with us, but also with us abroad. Those who deal with urbanism, urban policy and housing problems clearly see this. And I think it would be good if this article, this paragraph, were deleted and tried to replace it either with another article or with a new amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u90	Mr. Jerich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. I'll support this amendment myself. I hope that it will be accepted, because I think it is better to delete this paragraph in 151.a. rather than being accepted in the content proposed or even though we are within the reduced procedure, I think that this possibility for the Government to propose an amendment and this third paragraph of Article 151.a for the third reading is also adequately complemented by not remaining so misplaced and incomplete. And such a solution, as written down, actually allows for a lot of dangerous ways and, of course, corruption. I agree, I'll say, with the predecessors. I am in favour of private capital also appearing in the area of housing construction or to bring in private-public partnership in this area, but not to the detriment of the public. As it is written down, I fear that the private-public partnership in the area of housing construction through this article will eventually be resolved so that the public interest will end up in private pockets. I think we should actually take the time and finish this thing, otherwise we will allow housing to be built in this way on roads that are not particularly good for the local community or for the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 39a and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Miran Run you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Not for the first time in this mandate, I draw attention to the problem of housewives in multi-housing houses, formers in particular, although some are still doing housework. This position is not properly regulated. They do not have the right to a non-profit rent and are not protected by a rental relationship if they cease to do housework even when it comes to retirement or for non-criminal reasons. We would like this issue, which covers only a few hundred families in Slovenia, to be clearly regulated and because we had no other option in the transitional provisions, we propose an indisputable regulation of the right of housewives to non-profit rent and after the death of the housekeeper until the rental of his family members and persons referred to in Article 109 of the Housing Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to talk anymore. If that's what you want, I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.40. This concludes this agenda item. Can I help you, please? I missed my application. Besides, I've had a bit of a hard time finishing this point. Thank you very much. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE WATER LAW BY THE STRENGTHENING PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u95	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members. We have before us a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Water Act. The existing Water Act entered into force in August 2002, and was later affected by individual amendments laid down by other laws. At that time, a number of European Union directives have been adopted to be transposed into the internal legal order by the Water Act, such as the new bathing directive, the Flood Directive and the Marine Strategy Directive. The new bathing directive entered into force in March 2006. The deadline for transposition into the internal legal order shall be two years from its entry into force. The aim of this Directive is in particular to improve the quality standards for bathing waters and to increase the level of protection of bathing water by establishing new microbiological parameters. At the same time, it also sets out new minimum requirements for bathing water management. The main requirement of the Flood Directive is to identify areas in which flood risks exist, to draw up plans to reduce the threat and the corresponding programmes of action for all major areas of risk. Due to improvements in the quality of drinking water sources, the legal basis for providing substitute land and monetary compensation for the reduction of income for agricultural economies is also added, while adapting to the water protection regime. The new regime provides an adequate legal basis for the payment of compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas, as a result of the water protection regimes protecting the quality and quantity of water to ensure the provision of drinking water to the population, agricultural production is severely limited and the agricultural holdings to which the agricultural activity is the basis for survival are therefore under unequal conditions compared to those of non-agricultural economies, and thus the economic and social situation of those farmers is indirectly threatened. The proposed law also includes amendments relating to the transposition of the water directive into our legal order, concerning which Slovenia has received an official notice from the European Commission, which refers to a more precise definition of individual concepts or institutions: coastline, catchment area, economic analysis, cooperation with the public and the use of water. In particular, a number of additions are included in the law in response to the reported violations of the Court of Auditors in the framework of the audit report relating to the period 2002-2006. Thus, the provisions relating to the ecologically acceptable flow were corrected, the provisional water management plan and the provisions relating to the liability for the payment of water reimbursement for public drinking water supply are also harmonised with the provision setting out the water refund. The legal basis for determining the criteria for the granting of water rights has also been amended to facilitate the procedure for the professional assessment of the admissibility of the allocation of water rights. Other proposed amendments, however, seek to improve implementation, on the basis of several years of experience after the enactment of the law, mainly through a simplified water rights procedure and a simplified method of determining water and coastal land. A great deal of emphasis has been given to preventive water quality protection. There's an improved way of taking away the floods. The changes are related to information to the public and represent a simplification of the procedure in ensuring the right of the public to information. The concept of river and sea surveillance services to be established within the competent inspectorate is improved. And the preparation of the novel, which is to be highlighted, also included a broad professional and interested public. Both inspection services, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia and representatives of universities and public service providers of drinking water, local communities and others were involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Rudolph Petan, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, proposing that it be dealt with in a simplified procedure, as confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its meeting 14. 3. 2008 Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill is the representative of the proposer, this was the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, explaining that the proposed amendments align the Water Act with the new legislation of the European Union, mentioned the new bathing directive and the flood directive, and Slovenian legislation. It provides a legal basis for the payment of refunds for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas and, on the basis of some experience, improves the implementation of the provisions of the Water Act concerning the determination of water lands, protection regimes, management of abandoned water lands, the collection of floods, the granting of water rights and water protection monitors. He also briefly presented some of the proposed solutions. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of technical and regulatory aspects, gave some basic warnings and comments to individual articles of the law. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council. The Committee on Environment and Space, in the context of the second reading of the law, has, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, discussed and voted on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled, and has also replicated its amendments. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the focus was on Article 35 of the proposed law, which amends Article 79 of the Law. The proposed solutions provide a legal basis for providing replacement land and compensation to agricultural operators for the purpose of reducing income. Several other segments of this law were mentioned. The Committee on Environment and Space has adopted all the coalition amendments and, on the basis of Article 35 of the Rules of Procedure and the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service for improvement, it has also adopted its amendments to Articles 35 and 89, first paragraph of Article 89 of the Law. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the bill, and after the discussion and vote on the amendments, he voted together in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on all the articles of the bill and also adopted them. Taking into account the amendments adopted, also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, which is also an integral part of this Committee report, is being prepared. The rapporteur for this meeting was also appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to all present! What about the Water Act? The Water Act is undoubtedly a vital and important topic. For various reasons, the law is changing in three essential areas and in three essential parts. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not oppose this law, but we point out that there are many other areas with regard to water, which, unfortunately, this law or this change of law has not yet been regulated, and in everyday life are causing many problems for our people, citizens, especially those who have anything to do in the immediate vicinity of watercourses regarding construction. Sooner or later, of course, it will be necessary to discuss whether water belts are properly arranged, where we can shorten them, where we can extend them. Of course, it will also be necessary to identify areas which are flood-threatening and general findings, which are as stormy as we recorded in September 2007, always put on the plan: Is there enough order in the waters? It is noted here that coastal and coastal belts are sometimes left to mercy and mercy for those who live there, that there is no appropriate inspection action and control of those who take material off one side of the watercourses, on the other hand, especially those who mixed the coastal belt with Slovenian landfills along the watercourses. And here it will simply be necessary to set more controls, stricter penalties and more order, but then there will be fewer problems with flood safety or danger. And, of course, by legislation, in some way also to make it clear to this country that watercourses are cared for so much, at least at the level of that standard, as Mary Teresa had provided years ago, when all those who were at home by the watercourses, as we see today are seeing many on the road every day by the watercourse, by the dams, by the prisons, by the bulkheads, by the rafters, and also by the guides. We welcome, however, the time has passed, and Europe has also warned us that our legislation needs to be aligned with the Water Directive. If we want to go to Slovenia, then clean bathing is an important point and suitable water is an important point. And if we have this sorted out, we can also survive some euro in this area. I have already mentioned flood safety and the risk of adapting to the flood directive, particularly as regards the plan drawn up by the flood threat plan. Reimbursement for water protection areas is also a major issue. Yesterday we said that municipalities, most Slovene municipalities, in a difficult financial situation, and this is another example, that we will say the burden of this compensation for the inability to grow in this area is directly passed on to users, which is why we do not assess best, and therefore we feel that the amendment that solves this, from the SD Group of Members, is appropriate not to settle this from the pockets of taxpayers, but from the resources collected by the State for this purpose. Above all, as a representative of the local community, I would also point out the problem that in the local community it is sometimes difficult to obtain water permits and that we are talking about water refunds even before we have reached a water permit, so that these procedures, of course, need to be reduced, are made even simpler, especially where the situation is leaked. I must say that we have spent quite a bit of time and energy to obtain, now in 2008, a water permit for a resource that we have been using for 30, 40 years, and it is essentially just to formalise the matter legally. We also welcome the procedures that fall under the third set, in order to facilitate the implementation of the law, to shorten and simplify the procedures for the granting of water rights. There is also some confusion in this area, where they could be more economical, effective if they were legally simpler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u101	Dear Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Novela of the Water Act brings some changes, which New Slovenia believes are important from different perspectives. Firstly, based on the implementation of the EU bathing directive, the quality standards for bathing water will be strengthened and the level of protection of bathing water will be increased. In addition, the Directive prescribes bathing water management measures that will serve primarily as preventive measures to reduce the potential for pollution. Another time. The amendment of the law also brings into the Slovenian legal order a flood directive of the EU, which is still important for the area of Slovenia, as it aims to reduce flood threats. To this end, the country will have to draw up plans to reduce threats and programmes of action for threatened areas. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that it is time, even in the light of these events last autumn, that such preventive measures will take place because, as I have already mentioned, we have already experienced too many times that it is too late to ring the tide. Third time. The novelty regulates or provides a legal basis for the payment of refunds for the loss of income from agricultural activities in the most severe water protection areas where farming is not possible. In practice, many congregations have done so so far, although there was no clear legal basis for this. That's why it's not right to do it somewhere, but not elsewhere. That farmers in one municipality are paid for the loss of income, which in the strictest water protection area must grow grass and in another municipality farmers who do not receive the same refund. Of course, it's not right, it's right to settle this all over the country equally. In order not to get caught up in the long debate about how huge this will cost and who will pay for it, let us remember that it is actually a small number of farmers and that it is the areas with the strictest protection regime. We hope, however, in Nova Slovenija, that this re-change of content related to bureaucratic procedures is a change in the project conditions, the conditions for another intervention to the premises and all matters related to water security consensus, we hope that these changes will not bring any further complications. Indeed, we are convinced that too often changing the procedures governing different licences, consent and so on, does not contribute to greater transparency of the situation, in this sense, of course, we appeal to the Ministry, that it is very careful. Because, as we've heard, the law was changing not long ago, that's five, six years, not a long time when it takes a couple of years to get things back together. Given that we believe that the general law is certainly necessary, necessary and that it brings an absolute majority of the improvements, we will support the law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the adoption of the law by a reduced procedure, as it is a matter of less harmonisation of the Water Act with the new legislation of the European Union, a new bathing directive and a flood directive. It is essential to provide a legal basis for the payment of refunds due to the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas. The amendments that have been made at the time of implementation of this law are also necessary. The law improves the implementation of the provisions of the Water Act with regard to the definition of water lands, protection regimes, the management of abandoned water lands, the seizure of floods and the allocation of water rights. After the amendment of the law, 16 water guards, especially naturalists and fisheries supervisors and others, are actually expected to operate within four years. In view of these experiences, it seems necessary to identify areas as soon as possible, as there is a risk of flooding, and to draw up plans to reduce the threat and associated programmes of action for all important areas of risk, to draw up flood risk maps and flood risk maps and threat management plans. It is very important to provide sufficient safe drinking water in the future. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to protect the areas covered by the water and, on the other hand, to provide adequate compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas and to restrict the exercise of other activities in those areas. It seems to us that the draft amendments adequately address the sensitive issue of providing substitute or comparable land to the owner [[Article 35]] or to another owner who has reduced income from agricultural activities as a result of adapting to the measures of the water protection regime. On the basis of everything, we believe that the Novela Water Act will also enable more effective management of water and water and coastal land, so we will support changes and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ambassadors and Members, Secretary of State! In the DeSUS Group, we agree, in principle, both with the need to amend the law under consideration and with regard to at least the large majority of the proposed amendments. We have no doubts about those amended provisions that follow the need to comply with the European legal order, nor do we have any amendments and additions that aim at remedying shortcomings and simplifying procedures in the field of water regulation. In this respect, we fully accept the proposed solutions, as they have emerged in the section of the Sectional Services of the Ministry based on the practice of the problems expressed. The bill provides for a very large amendment to the article dealing with compensation to landowners where the water protection area is declared. In doing so, the applicant has very detailedly divided the situations of water protection areas and separated between those areas where a protected area is established due to drinking water and the use of water intended for certain activities and the water protection area of surface waters. There is no need to discuss the issue of the eligibility of owners or owners of agricultural land to compensation in order to limit the way in which agricultural activities are carried out and consequently lower income. It is right for agricultural operators to be encouraged to contribute by their response and conduct so that we can drink clean, clean water, since, above all, many calls from public service providers, drinking water supply and other water storage operators are heard in the spring that water is inadequate for use. However, it is questionable to transfer the cost of this compensation from the country to the users of drinking water, since the costs of compensation should be covered in the price of water itself. In this regard, key questions arise as to the eligibility of the transfer of this burden to drinking water users and the pricing of a specific area, which is the responsibility of the public service provider, the supply of drinking water and the price must be confirmed by both the local community and the Government. We are afraid that there will be derogations and various rises in water prices due to the fact that the areas of water protection areas are different - both by size and by functional use. The question also arises: Will and how will these compensations be dealt with in the case of supplies from village plumbing? All these concerns raise doubts about the equivalence of the treatment of water users already within each local community, as well as between the population of different municipalities and wider regions. With the possible support of such solutions, the sub-legislative act will require a very specific definition of the criteria that will be the basis for determining refunds and also clearly distinguish them according to the different arrangements of the measures laid down for each protected area. However, we have given support to the bill in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues. Water will be worth more in a few decades than, not just oil, it will be worth more than a lot of precious metal. And we need to start worrying about her today! There are more ways to care for water conservation, to preserve life. One of the first, however, is certainly laws and legislation and, of course, also sanctioning violations of this legislation. Therefore, this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act must be made, produced and supported in particular. In the first phase, this is the most important element, only at the second stage in the Slovenian National Party, but of course it is also necessary to make the requirements of new European Union legislation in the areas of water, bathing water quality directives, flood risk management, definition of concepts, legal basis and so on. At this level, too, on that first claim, it is necessary to make and align this law with the law on offences, if not within a few 10 years, that violations against water care may also be a criminal element, not only a criminal element. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support this water law, which brings a number of major changes, some of which are simplified, some of which are four harmonisations, not to mention them. However, I have to stop as all the other colleagues who have spoken about this law have had to stop and I think they also give a lot of support under Article 79 of the Water Act. In fact, it is right that someone should be compensated to the extent that he is harmed. The main problem in this basic Article 79 and Article 35 of this Law is, in fact, who will pay this compensation. It is already written in this 79th Article that this subsidy or this income compensation does not also cover the intended profit, which is logical, because the intended profit could be speculation, but could actually be achieved, but let us leave it. However, the fact is that even if the way in which the compensation is paid was as provided for in Article 35, it seems to me that it is too dispersed, too unclear to cause a large number of frauds, there is little opacity. In short, even if we wanted to announce in this form it is not good, because we do not know how to do these calculations at individual prices, we do not know how to equalise this value, the remuneration from income through the price that would be paid by users in one area or another would occur in a number of different cases. In the Slovenian National Party, we consider and assess that it would be the most fair and fair thing to do, when it is found that a claim for compensation occurs in an area, due to a loss of income, that this would require a real, fair and correct assessment and that an exact amount that goes directly to the affected party is determined in a contract. But how would the state raise that money is an option, because even at this point, at least I don't know how many of those possible victims are. They may not be many, they may be many, they may be enormous, but they may be small. But it's not fair and it's not fair to break it down now among all the water users. If already, water users, especially drinking water, etc., pay a greater contribution to maintaining these water resources in order to restore water networks, etc. It's not like we're going to pay a little bit over there, but no one's going to know who's drinking, who's drinking. As I say, I hope that the amendment that speaks of Article 35 will bring what we all think would be good, and there is no doubt that the proposal for the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, which concerns the Slovenian National Parties, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u109	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! We will support the amendment of the Water Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as it has been clear that there have been qualitative changes to the law through the consideration of the proposal and the amendment of the law so far. The reasons for the proposed amendment can be summarized into three main sets: harmonisation with legislation, compensation in water protection areas and some other changes, among which it is necessary to mention in particular the simplification of the process of granting water rights and water consents and the way in which water and coastal land is determined. Following the entry into force of the Water Act in August 2002, several Directives were adopted. In particular, reference should be made to the new bathing directive to be transposed by the Member States of the European Union into the national legal order by the end of March 2008 at the latest. The bathing directive is aimed at enhancing the quality standards for bathing water and thus increasing the level of protection of bathing water, while establishing new minimum requirements for the operation of bathing water. The Directive also requires countries to draw up a flood risk management plan. They must establish frameworks to assess and manage flood risks, in particular with a view to reducing the adverse effects of floods, so they must draw up flood risk maps. In the SDS Group, we welcome the solutions that provide an adequate legal basis for the payment of compensation for the loss of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas where, due to the water protection regimes that protect the quality and quantity of water to ensure the provision of drinking water to the population, agricultural production is severely limited and the agricultural holdings and agricultural activities that constitute the basis for survival are therefore in an unequal position compared to agricultural holdings outside those areas. Their economic and social situation is also directly threatened by this. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we agree with the proposaler, which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in accordance with the amendments to national legislation in the area of spatial arrangements and construction, as well as in intensive thinking about finding appropriate solutions for the coming climate change, believes that the potential risks for water pollution in water protection areas need to be limited and prevented from building buildings and operating on agricultural and other unburied land, and in such areas effectively monitored. The new law follows this direction. We will therefore support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you for your word and once again a nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The water economy in Slovenia should certainly have a significantly greater importance and weight in all decisions on how to manage the space it has today. This inadequacy is also reflected in the fact that we actually had to wait for a flood directive imposing on each EU member to draw up a flood risk management plan. In Slovenia, I think that such a document should be prepared by its very nature before and thus mitigate the catastrophic consequences that arise in the face of ever-increasing catches, and once again we find that we do not actually have adequate water management facilities and, of course, investments in already existing water management facilities, in order to avoid such extremes as have been detected in the last period. The new solution that arises in this water law has been replaced in the water protection area. This is the only novelty that we can, however, re-evaluate as very vague and unacceptable, because charging a levy due to the burden of water twice, we think is unacceptable. In fact, already today every user pays the price of water. This law adds that the water burden will also be paid for subsidisation of farms located in the water protection zone. This is a double burden on water users who will be additionally burdened at the price of water because the farm is located in the water protection area. Here I would particularly like to highlight the relationship that will certainly arise on the ground between the owner of the farm and among all the other neighbours who will pay higher water for the farm in the water protection area. This relationship will certainly be more than constructive and will not bring benefits to the development of agriculture and, finally, to the preservation of farms in such areas, but will certainly lead in the direction that these farms will sooner or later either withdraw from this area or completely abolish agriculture in this area. In short, it is not a well-thought-out measure that will also be reflected in the conservation of farms and rural areas in Slovenia, which is already exposed. We are always looking for appropriate solutions to enable or enable the proper management and development of rural areas. This law will have negative consequences, both for all those who, as users, will pay more expensive water, as well as for the development of agriculture in water protection areas. We therefore expect that the amendment we tabled to this law will be adopted. It also proposes that subsidies for farms in water protection areas be paid from water reimbursement funds. This is already a source that is collected at the cost of water and should also be used deliberately. And the deliberate use of water reimbursement is one of the important issues that this new Water Act, or amendments and additions to the Water Act, should address, unfortunately not or adds to this new ambiguity, a new burden, a new tax that will be paid by raising the price of water. Our proposal is truly very clear and simple, if any, it is necessary to pay a subsidy for the loss of farm income, then the source is already legally defined and envisaged as a water refund. So we hope that this amendment will be adopted and that this part of the legislation will also be significantly more acceptable than it will be if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u112	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 5. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I am opening an application to discuss the article and the amendment. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you. With the amendment to this Article, we want to prevent the double payment of the burden of user water. In fact, users are already paying for the water burden through the water refund and we believe that it is unacceptable, I would say, because of our regulations, as I think Europeans, that one user pays twice for one load of water. This is an important chapter that is recorded in this law. And if we also point out that the liability for the payment of the farm income reduction fee in the water protection area, the operator of the water network, is mainly for companies owned by local communities. And local communities are also responsible for whether or not this company operates with loss. And one of the mechanisms is, of course, that the loss is covered by water, but if this fails, then these resources must be provided from the budget of the municipalities. However, we need to know that the water protection zone is declared by the Government and that the Government also has an accurate land record in this water protection area because it has to produce this before such an area is declared. In addition, the Government actually has its source, the water refund paid at the price of water, precisely because water loading can be remedied. So, the government and the state have the whole mechanism to carry out the cost of subsidising agricultural activities in water protection areas without any problems and without further increases in the price of water. For each increase in the price of water, the operator of the water network, as well as the local community, must specifically request the country. So, even this relationship, how the price of water is going to go up, is not clear, is not defined, but I would like to stress again - it is completely unnecessary because we already have a source, no increase in the price of water is necessary. I do not think it is important, however, to recall the fact that we are in a time of extremely high inflation and that an extremely restrictive approach is also to allow for higher prices of municipal services. And it is somehow illogical that the Government, which is supposed to take measures to reduce inflation, is proposing a law that will increase the price or increase the price of water. At the same time, I would also point out the uncertainty with regard to the relationship of this subsidy which the farm will receive from the water burden. It is ambiguity how to deal with such a subsidy again under the Income Act or if you also want to do so in the framework of the Law on Fees for the Management of Agricultural Lands. So, the cadastral income is the one defined by the special law, the Cadastrian Income Act, and this solution, if the farm is located in the water protection area, must be adequately resolved and dealt with in the Cadastrian Income Act. This income, of course, since it is land in the water protection area, must be significantly lower than that which can be generated by a farm on land outside the water protection zone. These uncertainties introduced through this Water Act will also have consequences under the Cadastrian Income Act and the Income Act. We are not already in control of this problem in Slovenia, which is very much the case with the Income Act, or and how much to tax subsidies that farmers receive for remuneration or as income that they own to replace a difference that they cannot create at the price on the market. In short, it is a very large problem that cannot be solved in such an easy way as the applicant has somehow pledged that he will simply instruct the water network operator to conclude a contract to determine how much subsidy he must pay in order not to burden and reduce the quality of drinking water. All other areas, from catastronic income to income, are actually excluded here. This problem needs to be tackled in the Cadastrian Income Act and then followed as far as this topic needs to be further followed, even in the Water Act, but explicitly and in a way that no new taxation is introduced, as introduced by this Act, but that this source of any subsidy under the Water Act is provided for in the title of the Water Refund. This seems to us to be a corrective approach to solving this problem, but everything else will lead to real to very difficult conflict situations in the field, when, again, a neighbour who does not have land in the water protection area has to pay higher levels because he has a farm activity and he is also a neighbour, his farm in the water protection area. And in order for this farm to survive, that neighbor and everyone else will actually have to pay higher water. This conflict is inevitable and will indeed bring very big problems in how we will implement this water law in practice. I also stress that, at the price of water, to the extent that the operator of the water network, and not to the task of concluding a subsidy contract, should also acknowledge to that operator the certain costs it will have to bear when it consists of this contract and when it will have to negotiate with those who have a farm in the water protection area in order to harmonise, what subsidy is to be considered. In my opinion, it is also a very demanding procedure, which will require that an expert be included in this process, who is aware of the extent to which certain agricultural activities are burdened by drinking water. It will certainly be necessary to include a hydrogeological profession as well as an agricultural profession, which will have to provide a very clear response to the absorption capacity of both land and plants that you can grow in this area. This will be linked to additional costs and I do not imagine that one water network operator should have to have even employed experts in this area to be able to solve problems on the other hand or that they will be able to reach the point where they can conclude a fair contract to pay the subsidy to the farm located in the water protection zone. Therefore, the issue of the recognition of the costs of plumbers is not resolved in this law, but one of the key if we are to bring this process to a close. However, the State or the Ministry of the Environment certainly has the resources to do so, and it also has experts who can engage them to carry out this task throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore the prices of these experts are significantly lower. However, if an individual water network operator enters into a contract with a hydrogeologist or, let's say, agricultural experts, i.e. agrotechnics, these prices and contractual obligations will be significantly higher than if the State itself established this mechanism for the whole of the Republic of Slovenia and thus achieved appropriate discounts on prices that these experts will certainly have to design and place on water managers if we are to calculate an appropriate subsidy for the loss of income due to the preservation of quality drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Bricel, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u115	Dear President, honourable Members! With regard to the amendment to Article 35. The Ministry of Environment and Space notes that it is not appropriate and does not accept it for a number of reasons that we have already explained on various committees, but allow them to be once again, due to the concerns expressed by Mr Vebra, as a justification that we have just heard. Once again, I would like to point out that the proposal is fully in line with the European Water Directive, which requires local specificities to be taken into account when establishing an effective service in the field of water supply as well. Therefore, taking into account the specific hydrogeological conditions of aquifers and of the use of aquifers, which are subject to possible pressures and thus to the threat of a water source. As a result, the legislator, the Ministry of the Environment and Space, took into account in Article 35 all these hydrogeological specificities and uses, which are potentially or present at such a source of reality to reduce these pressures, of course on the basis of the professional criteria, which are also the legal basis for regulating these relations. By the way, one of the largest such karst aquifers has now been regulated in this way, in this spirit, this is Rižanski voivodship, and such and other compensations resulting from limited use in an extremely specific situation where the hinterland reaches the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, among other things, and provides a completely different population in the coast, including tourists who depend on these water resources. And now imagine a proposal to subsidise or pay the State budget for this kind of use in a very clear way how the country could subsidise tourists or hotel organisations because they use water or have limited use in Illyrian Bistrica, or some farms or other users because of the local situation where this aquifer is located. However, we have arranged and coordinated with the municipalities, including the mayors present, a solution in the spirit of the law before you, in favour of both parties, if you want, the local community, the public service providers, the supply of drinking water and, on the other hand, the legislators for the solutions that all participants agree on and are in fact materialised relations that the law now brings. This is because it is not a mechanism that compensates the polluter, if I say so, for someone who uses land and thus causes pressure that pollutes or burdens the aquifer that is intended to supply healthy drinking water, that is to say those who are users of this water coming from extremely specific areas into the water supply system allocate resources through the payment of this service to the public service provider, who is responsible for the implementation of the rearing regime that is in accordance with the security regime. And according to the calculations we made, compared them with the Agricultural Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and the international project between the Bavarians, Austria and Slovenia just completed, this burden would not even in the worst case mean 0.5 euros of higher cost per user. [[read: households]] , if at all, but would mean the implementation of a tool whose aim is to achieve appropriate use or sustainable use on the aquifer and not vice versa. This cannot be ensured by the State through the use of the system as you state it. This is completely contrary to the objectives of taking into account local situations, the lack of transparency, inefficiency and the exercise of control that a country at this level can never provide to the extent and detail of the local situation. However, the system, which, once again, has been submitted here and which is in fact already checked on the ground in the case of a quoted water supply system, shows that the matter is feasible and is, in any event, possible. I would just like to point out once again that, with the proposed regulation, we are certainly establishing a greater recognition of local and regional specificities, which has not been in any regulation so far. We recognise the local situation as the starting point for determining the relationship between public service providers, users of drinking water sources or citizens supplied from this source and those who are current users and also in the future potential areas that may deteriorate this source in any way. And that's what this is all about. That these users, at the lowest level of each other, are in fact faced with pressures and benefits and that they regulate the relationship with the country in cooperation with the professional services you have mentioned, the hydrogeology offered by the State to support all the details that are still needed on the ground to determine the regimes and representatives of the agricultural sector, which in any case will assist existing land use plans to the existing users of these land in order to use them and that there will be no deterioration. We are convinced and also confirm this last week's "twinninga" project with Bavaria and Austria that, in this case at least, we are in line with our colleagues in the north or ahead of them in applying these solutions, and for that we have actually been given recognition. We are of the opinion that this case, as an example of good practice, can also be presented to the European Commission in order to achieve the objectives of this European Water Directive and the responsibility of local communities and the country in implementing the water supply system in the Republic of Slovenia, which is now part of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you. Anybody else want some? I can only see one hand. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. I hope, Mr Secretary, that you have also told these colleagues from the European Commission that you are already charging water for the cost of compensation under this law. You already have a levy from which you can pay subsidies due to a loss of income because the farm cannot implement as large an agricultural programme as it would otherwise have if it were not in the water protection area. And this is this crucial controversy that we have and that we are alerting with our amendment. I strongly doubt that anyone in Europe would say, yes, you are right because you first collect compensation or compensation costs under this law through a water refund at the price of water, and then at that same price of water you charge compensation for the loss of income on this farm. The users pay this compensation twice. And that's what I find unacceptable and incomprehensible, and I don't know why you're going into such a solution when you have a source, that's a state source from which you can settle these liabilities peacefully and there's no controversy and problems about it. Neither alignment with the European Union nor harmonisation, I would say, with the interests of users who will therefore have to pay, as you say, a higher price of water. And I'd like to ask you one more question, which is specific to Crassus. Rarely, which water system in Crassus is supplied from only one water source, it is usually two, three water sources that supply the water system. What if the farm is located in only one, in the back of one water source and this water source is not always included in the network, but the operator regulates it according to the quality of the water, according to the water supply or quantity that this source has and distributes then this water to the user. How do we know when we will charge the user with the loaded water, because of this additional subsidy, when we will not charge him, or when his water pipe flows from the back, where the farm is located, and what moment he is running from the tap water that is collected from the area where this farm is not. It's a very open question. I fear that the operator of the water network will not be able to determine the quantity of water and, of course, back also the impact of this farm on the quantity actually purchased or used by users. So that Crassus is specific and I'm afraid he can't be placed in the marriage like you imagined. And this is a whole series of questions that will certainly arise and I think they are not solved. Of course, it is necessary, and we agree both, and it is no different than for the hydrogeologists to determine what kind of hinterland it is and how water resources need to be handled, so that we can use it both in quality and quantity, but this ratio of accounting through water prices will be extremely inappropriate, complicated and there will be conflicts. All of this can be avoided if you settle it from a water refund, which is in accordance with all the rules and regulations and I do not know why this would not be acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Bricel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to professional concerns about karstic aquifers. We agree that this is a specific feature in which more than half of Slovenia is karst and must be taken into account in some way, and this, frankly, has not been the case until today. With this law, these particulars and this measure, they come to the fore and we don't hide them anymore, but they are aquifers, because of me in the field or Drava, but they have a specificity. And this is exactly what I would say, a novelty that is and requires a different organisation of the water supply service provider and where relations are now with the detail that you are actually opposed to, the reimbursement is quite clearly defined: that the boundaries that you are exposing as problematic should be defined more precisely. And this, as I have already quoted from the example of the largest karst aquifer, on which the largest population in the Republic of Slovenia depends, is the karst hinterland of Rižana and the provision of Slovenian Istria with water, has proved to be an acceptable and appropriate approach, also adopted by the mayor of the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica. The regulation that has just been adopted by the Government is based on this principle. We think that we are certainly on the right track from the professional foundations that we have taken into account and upgraded with the latest state that is possible in the country right now and, of course, never finished, but we are following all processes. Including today, when we should be on the ground, it is the Crassus Research Institute in the Blocks that presents how, with effective solutions, with simple measures, to upgrade the effectiveness of these systems with adapted use on the ground, in specific locations, either agricultural use or any other that is under the jurisdiction of local communities. And the last one is the heart of the last act. Unless local communities that are competent here and tomorrow even more so than today, to decide on the use of land on the edge and in the back of water protection areas with such and other influential backdrops consistently take these restrictions into account for the public benefit and a little, probably during the transitional period, then subsidise limited use, if this is in some area due to the prevailing situation, then efficient supply of drinking water in the medium and long term in the Republic of Slovenia will not. We're gonna lose her. From the socialization of something that has a very well-known name and surname, the unsub. The latter should, in any event, be arranged for the known costs to be borne by a well-known user, in order to ensure that its production and its way of living and living in water protection areas is appropriate. And that's why it's going. Therefore, they are not state budget funds, but they are the resources of the user of the water source that they receive through the public service system. One more time. It's the spirit of the law. And once again, it does not mean by our calculations any sign of the burden of existing users. I'm sure you don't. Certainly not and vice versa means greater efficiency. And one more thing. The existing refunds are, in fact, refunds on the use of the source, quantity and payment of the latter's refund. No, or less and less burdensome. The latter, of course, we want to get rid of them and eliminate them as soon as possible. However, where these burdens are, they are identifiable and, in any case, manageable at the local level between the cause and the user and the public service provider, where the state wants to be a partner in this relationship, and not vice versa. The partner, I repeat, is at the level of preparing the professional foundations and their interpretations at local level and in advising on the appropriate uses, when we are talking about agricultural uses and rural development. Only the latter can be a journey to change the trends that are, we both know, in these karst areas. And if I conclude with this now, there can be no farm in Crassus, Kočevska has until recently been such a case, to be extremely burdened with such influences, to be somehow socialised for some stables, which may even be private today, from the state budget, because of the individual's benefit in a very specific local context. On the contrary, the water source is only one, in local situations they are limited and increasingly rare and therefore require serious, responsible and effective behaviour, which we believe is what this bill brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thanks again for saying that. See, the mayor of Illyrian Bistrica will undisputedly agree that the farm in the Illyrian Bistrica area will be compensated for its limited production because the water is sold on the Coast for tourism purposes and so on. Clearly, undeniably, I don't know a mayor who would object. But the problem I'm exposing is next, and answer that. We already have a water refund that we collect at the cost of water. Hydroelectric power plants are financed from this water refund. And I ask: Why is it not possible for the water network manager to recognise this cost that he has to pay due to the loss of income on the farm and has to charge this extra at the price of water? Why does the State simply not recognise this cost to the operator of the water network and pay this levy to subsidise the farm from the water refund? Only this step needs to be taken and we are coordinated and there are no problems in understanding and implementing this legislation. That's possible. And once again, it is unjustifiable to raise the price of water, because we already have a source for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Bricel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u123	Well, what you've said is possible. No one will deny it. It is only an additional opportunity that enables a more efficient and faster achievement of this goal, which we are all following, to supply healthy drinking water and not to lose existing developmental water, as we have also heard Members of Parliament, the potentials of Slovenia. And this is just an additional option, which makes it more effective to achieve these goals, which, I am sure, is in the public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the article and the amendment and the law. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH SERVICE LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the law. Mr. Žiberna, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u125	Mr President of Parliament, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm really glad that the New Year's Medical Service Act is here in front of you in decision-making. Why? Because it is more than necessary to improve the health system and its effectiveness. The law regulates matter in the first place for doctors, but also partly for other healthcare professionals, which means that it will be a very useful and effective tool for a very wide segment of the health sector. I would like to say that the amendment of the law itself regulates as much as possible the necessary improvements in the field of medical services, namely that doctors may also be employed in the workplaces of medical schools after a new period of work, which has so far been discriminated against. It also implements the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which lays down legislation in the field of temporary and occasional provision of health services. The Novela also redefines the programme of specialisations that it incorporates in European recommendations. The novela cancels the secondary because we believe that it does not bring any additional value in the system at the moment, but it is only a waste of the precious time of doctors in the active age. The notice also provides for the obligation that the concessionaire may be absent only 14 days a year without compensation. This ensures the provision of medical services to concessionaires for citizens in fact throughout the year. However, if it exceeds 14 days, the concessionaire must provide a replacement doctor to provide medical services for his or her population. So, the novel regulates some important problem, that is to include in the on-call service of doctors of public servants and all concessionaires in their field of work and, of course, also the area as territory, on the principle of equivalence for duties and payment. It also prescribes that future specialists will enter into a contractual relationship with one single employer for the entire time of specialisation, contrary to what has been so far, when they had to conclude these contracts at each stage in a new way, which represented a hugely unnecessary bureaucratic work. The new law also significantly enforces the expansion of the possibilities for the work of doctors who are limited in number in Slovenia, with services increasing very rapidly. The novelty makes it possible to conclude business and other civil law contracts, including with our own employer, thereby improving the efficiency of work, control and so forth, contrary to the current situation when doctors are mass-working with another employer, rather than performing similar services without any bureaucratic reservations with their own employer. The novelty also covers the area of payment of the on-call service, which is uniform throughout the country and is in line with the European Union Directive. The Novela also sets out willingness to work as a special working condition, of course in the first place with the consent of the doctor, but if this is not possible, the joint agreement between the employer and the union. It is very important to note that the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is the body responsible for the inspection under this law and the novel also imposes sanctions for the infringements found. This novelty was created after a thorough discussion by all important actors in the system and in fact represents a very effective legal tool to improve the delivery of health services. Without this novelty, we are convinced that we would have significantly more problems in the future in the area of the delivery of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u126	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Ivan Grill, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u127	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the Law on Amendments to the Medical Service Act and in its debate itself felt that this law brought about significant changes and was a step forward in the field of health care in Slovenia. In this law it is really now possible to make the health sector actually more accessible, because doctors or this resort, which is in the current situation, are in fact in a position not to provide everywhere enough of these potentials that we have in Slovenia. In particular, in the field of study, by abolishing the secondary course, we will have a greater opportunity to provide new doctors from medical schools. As already mentioned, coordination with the European Directive with this law is a step closer to simplifying our legislation with an area also governed by the European Directive. In the debates themselves, there has been a great deal of debate by Members and Members, particularly on the area which in fact provides for the incompatibilities of medical service with medical activity. This law defines that a doctor who wishes to carry out a medical activity must in fact decide that if he wishes to carry out a medical activity, the licence should not be granted. There were some concerns expressed by the opposition, a dilemma. However, at the end of this amendment, which was tabled by the opposition to effectively amend such an article, was not adopted either. Eight amendments were tabled by the coalition and something by the opposition, by which the text of the amendments by the coalition was mainly in terms of those comments and suggestions by the Legal and Legislative Service and all these amendments were adopted. An amendment of the opposition was also adopted to the 20th Article by a fellow Member from the Social Democracy, Mr Kontic. In the debate itself, the Committee then adopted two amendments, as an amendment to the Committee, in Article 26, which provided that the time of the business contract would be reduced and that the possibility of over-absorbing this possibility would in fact be prevented in this area, in order to enable doctors in the same institution to also have a business contract. And then there was another amendment to the committee, where the time of validity was set. For the comments and suggestions of representatives from the Health Insurance Service and also the Legal and Legal Service have been regulated by this provision in a manner which then also allows for the implementation of this Act. Mostly. The law was then, or the text of the articles, then fully adopted by the members of the Committee and, as such, appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker. Dear colleague and colleague. The Journal of the Medical Service Act is another legal novelty that is prepared to comply with the legal order of the European Union and brings the regulation of the medical service in accordance with the principles of the provision of uninterrupted health care in line with the principle of regionality and in accordance with the principle of payment after work. The novelty introduces a series of urgently needed and modern solutions that will allow the medical service and consequently its users - citizens to receive better and fairer health care based on the professional provision of medical services. The solutions brought by the novels will be able to contribute greatly to the reduction of waiting periods in health care, which are one of the most pressing health problems in Slovenia. The lack of doctors is one of the key problems that only prolongs these waiting periods. The news in the marriage, however, greatly interferes with this area and tries to set it straight. As a result, medical posts will also begin to be distributed in the departments of medical schools. A secondary, or internship, will be discontinued for graduates of the medical faculty. The duration of the specialisation will be reduced and adapted to the norms and standards of the majority of EU countries' programmes. We will also be able to obtain more doctors to comply with the Directive, which provides for the recognition of professional qualifications and the introduction of occasional and occasional medical services to doctors from other EU Member States. The purpose of the marriage is also to continue in health care. According to the new legislation, concessionaires will also have to be involved in the provision of continuous emergency medical assistance. This will increase the number of doctors available to provide emergency medical care, which will certainly enable faster and more effective care for patients in need. A specific form of work is also defined as an on-call service, which also represents one of the ways to provide continuous healthcare. The concessionaires will also have to ensure the smooth functioning of their service in the future by introducing a so-called substitute doctor to replace the concessionaire during his absence. An important solution to the law is a provision which requires training for specialists within the region for which they specialize and lays down, during the duration of the specialisation period, the obligation to employ a specialist with only one employer, who is normally a public health institution. However, the introduction of a new body is also of great importance, namely the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, who will carry out the inspection tasks of the medical service in the territory of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the amendment represents an important step towards improving the medical service and better, more efficient and, in particular, faster healthcare for citizens. And since such care is at the heart of any modern developed country that puts concern for the health of its citizens as a priority, Members of the New Slovenia will be happy to support the amendment of the law because it is a health of value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u131	Good-bye! Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support all the changes that mean improving health services for patients and more effective delivery of medical services. We agree that the proposal for a law needs to be adopted on an urgent basis, as an important reason for amending the law is also an adaptation to the EU Directive. Accordingly, we need to regulate the recognition of professional qualifications and the occasional and occasional provision of health services. We agree that the amendment of the law will abolish the secondary so that the draft law follows the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, which provides that a post-graduate and professional examination worker may carry out the work and tasks on his own at the place of work for which he passed the examination. The draft law also regulates the appointment of a specialist to doctors who did not have the opportunity to obtain this title at the time of education when the specialisation did not yet exist. Due to the current lack of doctors, it is our view that the introduction of a new status - a professional doctor who will be obliged to offer him a job in the case of unoccupied medical facilities - will also help to make medical services more accessible. It also seems right for us to commit the concessionaires to participate in the continuous emergency medical assistance programme. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the amendments of coalition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will move the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Health! Slovenia is in an unenviable situation where it lacks doctors greatly, and their age structure is inappropriate. We have 4,900 doctors. With almost 237 per 100,000 inhabitants, this means 77 less than the average in the European Union. Unfortunately, such an unpleasant situation will not improve for a few years. Some of the measures proposed by the Government in that law, such as the abolition of the secondary legislation and the adjustment of the duration of the specialisation and the exercise of specialisation within the regions, are therefore understandable. We also support and welcome the regulation of the obligations of concessionaires in the execution of emergency medical care and the introduction of replacements for the period of the absence of the concessionaire. However, a number of concerns and dilemmas remain open with regard to the possibility of entering into a business contract or any other contract, and with regard to the conditions for concluding such contracts. The fact is that it is trying to regulate things that are already going on in some way. At present, by making such contracts, doctors in other institutions allow for some kind of networking. A doctor from one hospital makes a contract with another hospital, which is said to be quite a lot in Slovenia. The possibility of concluding business contracts within the office where the doctor is employed is also opened. Of course, this leaves a whole range of things open and unsettled. What is not clear enough and what is the extent of the work obligations under the regular working relationship and where work begins beyond this, since we do not have the criteria and criteria for doing so. We are also concerned about the fact that, with regard to the amendments mentioned, they have expressed their concerns and objections to the Ministry of Finance, such as the financial implications for the health treasury and the Ministry of Public Administration with Minister Virant in charge. All these comments were completely disregarded. In particular, these are the amendments to Articles 65 and 68, which, according to many estimates, undermines the whole system of public sector wages and is introduced, I quote from the opinion of the Ministry of Finance: "...unacceptable mixing of public and private sector rules." This warning is extremely serious and points to the continuation of the decommissioning of the public sector, its damage, of course, with inconceivable consequences and financial effects within public institutions and, of course, without agreement with the Health Insurance Authority as a payer. This is a certain way of giving warnings about the planned privilege of one profession. It is not surprising, therefore, that later, after this agreement, pressures also began on other segments such as education, the judiciary, research and the like. Minister Virant pointed out that business contracts in this case were in conflict with labour law and the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act. This law already regulates and already allows for the payment of an increased volume of work, and it is also possible to pay and reward labour for market activities. However, there are no clear differences between what is a regular job, what is an increased scope and what is work in the context of market activities. This is likely to cause major problems as well as irregularities and anomalies. In doing so, we would like to point out that in higher education, where such business contracts are also common, the distinctions between regular work and market activity are much clearer and more specific. However, solutions in this regard should be adopted by means of a special rule to be drawn up together with Fides and should standardise the work of doctors. But according to our assessment, there is still a very, very long way to go to a truly good and truly quality act of this kind. Although we will not oppose the law in the Group of Members, the Members will choose to support themselves on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act is indeed necessary for the exception of other laws. Amendments to the Medical Services Act follow European practice and, of course, reduce the necessary lack of doctors and in some ways reduce waiting types, or this law will also help. If we look at the number of doctors needed per 100,000 inhabitants, we see that the shortage is enormous. Otherwise, we record a minimal increase in doctors in the decade, so in 2006, there are some analyses, 315 doctors per hundred thousand inhabitants. What is most important to the Slovenian National Party is that we are in fact introducing the principle of regionality, which means that in some ways, in some way, what I have just talked about will be regulated or coordinated in some way. The law itself provides uninterrupted health care, introduces a substitute doctor, the principle of regionality, as already said, is also introduced by this, and one specialist for the duration of specialization can only work with one employer, which is also correct. Today we know that doctors travel from the Clinical Center, I know the cases myself, to the coast and work there during their free time, and then return to the Clinical Center, for example, to their regular working relationship, if I may say so. The conclusion of a business contract, which my interlocutors and other civil law treaties have already talked about, is also a novelty in this law, and we think that, in particular, this law will, by introducing these, make it essential to make citizens and citizens more satisfied. Thus, waiting types will be reduced, access to a doctor will increase, and in some ways the quality of such a service will increase. The proposal also sets out the obligation for the concessionaire to be included in the programme for the provision of uninterrupted health care in the area in which the activity is carried out, for the operator of the continuous emergency assistance, i.e. those established there for this emergency assistance. It's not a practice today. You know that those who have a concession simply close their office and when a patient needs them most must wait for the official hours set with their employee. In the Republic of Slovenia, as has already been said, there is a shortage of doctors according to the number of people living and the conditions for faster training of young doctors also introduce this new law, which we consider to be positive. Carrying out medical services in the public health service network by introducing different forms of work is also a novelty and we welcome this in some way. In short, the Slovenian National Party will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act and there is no reason for the Minister to be here today. I believe that at least today I could come if I can't find the time to come to my mother's work body and talk about health issues, at least I haven't seen her there yet and I'm at almost every session. So, if we're to commend, even a little bit of wormwood on this, the minister should come to his mother's work body at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u136	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of Health! According to the Minister, the bill is part of a package of agreements between the Government and negotiators, the Doctors and Dentistry Syndicate on wage harmonisation. Will the new law really help to reduce the lack of medical personnel - I believe it will be time to do so. In this respect, however, it is only one, according to the opinion of the Lipa Group, partial solution, which defines the obligations of concessionaires to ensure, for the period of their absence, that the medical service is performed by the alternate physician, as well as the involvement in the emergency medical assistance programme. But the government with its plans, and I am sorry that this is so, still favors privacy, concessionism, at the expense of public health or services within the public network. Private subsidies are foreseen, not in this law, but the area should be fully viewed. We have heard on several occasions that this ministry will also strive for a systemic approach, new forms of insurance and relief for private insurance. It is not, however, the hand on the heart to feel anxious for an increasingly vulnerable and degraded layer of people. These government desires or aspirations are very clear, very clearly defined in the Resolution on the National Health Programme. We also discussed the 2008 budget balance on the working body yesterday, which clearly shows what the Government wants. On the health-care line, social or materially disadvantaged persons are being reduced by EUR 4 million, they are being eliminated in full, despite the fact that a very large group of pensioners, unemployed people, those receiving only and only EUR 200 cash social assistance, are not able to pay supplementary health insurance and that the country should address this issue as a matter of priority, and the financial resources in the budget balance are being deleted on this item - EUR 4 million! However, they are increasing that, in the area of privacy, co-financing of concessions and so on. The Secretary of State said or referred to the specifics of Slovenian health, which takes into account, says, population ageing and lack of doctors. Mr State Secretary, who is with us today, is aware of the need to motivate the healthcare staff. Now, I'm going to say ironically, what's a better motivation than allowing a doctor to privatise health services at the expense of the state, even getting financial resources for that. That's what the government does. The maximum number of health concessions has been granted in this mandate. And it is this government that has also put emphasis on privacy, not public health, in the long term. For public health services, the total share of gross social product is even decreasing. Once again, we are once again in the European Union. And where does the government take into account demographics, population ageing, poverty? I told you earlier what the government coalition did yesterday at the Committee on Finance in the context of the budget rebalancing. If I want to make a difference between social damage and social benefits, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the Lipa Group we estimate that such doing by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a measure that goes to the detriment of people. It is true, however, that certain solutions within the framework of the law before us today, this is a medical service law, are a step forward and possibly because the consequences will be visible over so long and so long, we may be able to stop the trend of falling doctors within the public health network. By the way, I believe that there is also a question here about what will happen to the Regional Hospital in Zasavje in Trbovje and those, and I will say, the stolen funds that have already been provided in the budget. But there's no answer today. In the Lipa Group, we will not oppose the law. However, we will support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u138	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Bručan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u139	Good-bye! Mr President, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker! The main objective of this proposal for a new Law on Medical Services is to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. It is also important to make more specific arrangements for the financing of doctoral specialisations in the public health service network. The proposal for a law removes the secondary rate and sets out in more detail the specialisation programmes in terms of comparison with the common programmes of the Member States of the European Union. The legal amendment also defines on-call duty as a specific form of work providing continuous health care, further regulates the duration and distribution of preparedness and adds new names for the promotion of doctors. With regard to the arrangements for on-calls, it should be specifically mentioned that in this part the law follows an important principle of ensuring uninterrupted health care. The law also lays down the obligation for concessionaires to be included in the continuous emergency medical assistance programme in an area where they carry out activities with the operator of uninterrupted medical care. However, it must be said here that this law now regulates these matters a little more precisely than is already provided under other legislation. It should also be mentioned that, of course, it depends on how the law will succeed at this point, especially from those who award most concessions, it is from the mayors, as it has been so far. By contract, the concessionaire and the public health institution will regulate the conditions for the provision of continuous emergency medical care and mutual rights and obligations so that this principle will also be brought to life. An important novelty is the introduction of a replacement doctor. For the duration of his absence, the concessionaire will have to be replaced by a doctor with the same professional competence. This is normalisation, an attempt to normalise the situation in this area, where in some parts of recent times, without these additional legal changes, improvements have to be made, but it is essential in the law that things are formalised. The Law also provides that departments of medical schools are to be deployed into the medical work network, in the public health services network. This concludes a long-standing effort to regulate this and to enable medical universities to carry out health activities. This novel removes the secondary, which merely formalizes the situation that has already arisen, because the secondary was needed for general medicine, and now there is no need for this and there is only the internship. Today, however, a mistake has already been mentioned in the debate that traineeships will also be abolished. Of course, this is not true; the internship remains an essential part of the training of doctors. According to the SDS Group, this current two-year secondary rate in the current state of loss of some reactive part of a doctor at a life-old age has now become redundant from the point of view of education. But he had a huge role to play in the beginning, in 1996, when he was born and was a significant move forward in terms of the knowledge of doctors needed to work in the field. The training of specialists within the region for which they specialize shall be prescribed and it shall lay down the obligations for a specialist to be employed for the duration of the specialisation period with only one employer. Some amendments are also important. I would like to say here, in particular to highlight the amendment which allows 55 years of age to end the opposition's watchdog. As far as business contracts are concerned, full support should be given to physicians in their own institution. This is a very important change in legislation that will actually solve a number of problems, not just for doctors, but also for other health workers. In view of all of this, we will support the proposal for a new medical service law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. One of the main problems in our health system is certainly the lack of doctors and, as far as we know, the lack of qualified nurses. Some of the measures in the proposal that we are considering today are good, and some also have concerns in the Group of Social Democrats. The nonsense of the second-rate has been discussed for quite some time now, and this proposal has in fact also abolished it, and means harmonisation with the Labour Relations Act, which provides that the worker can perform the work and tasks of the post-graduate and professional examinations on his own at the workplace for which he passed the examination. Members and Members of the Social Democrats are also reminded in this law that Slovenia remains among the most restrictive countries when it comes to separating the so-called official and alternative or complementary medicine. Here is the opinion that there is no need for a doctor who would also deal with certain methods defined by Slovenian legislation as medicinal, not to grant or even to be deprived of a license. The programmes of specialisation after the content and duration of these amendments also remain in accordance with the Directive of the European Community, thus ensuring that the applicant provides that the period of specialisation will be longer than the prescribed minimum, for a maximum period of one year. The problems faced by those responsible for providing uninterrupted emergency medical care are known to us and it is therefore necessary to support the amendment proposalr and to supplement the medical service law, which obliges concessionaires in some of the areas currently at issue to carry out or involve 24 hours of continuous provision of emergency medical care. As we are aware of these problems, I proposed an amendment to Article 20 on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group for a meeting at the home work body, which was also adopted. We have now written that a doctor who has reached the age of 55 who, unlike 50 before, did not normally have to perform on-call service under the conditions prescribed by the Minister. This is particularly important in the fact that some directors of institutions, public institutions at the level of primary health care, are forced by these directors to employ their former pensioners somehow due to lack of medical personnel. However, it was illogical to remain for 50 years as that limit, which in practice also did not apply in most cases to the performance of duty. This amendment was therefore necessary and also adopted. The basic purpose of these amendments and additions are, however, the so-called Land Contracts. Here we have serious concerns in the Group of Social Democrats. I have already pointed to them at a meeting of the Health Committee, where I have taken over the trade union amendments which addressed the amendment proposal to the Committee. The proposal has not been adopted, so we continue to allow the conclusion of business contracts. Where necessary for the purpose of carrying out medical activities without delay, a public health institution or other legal or natural person carrying out a medical activity within the public health service network may conclude a contract for the performance of a medical service or other contract of civil law with a doctor employed in that public health service or other legal or natural person. This means that they can conclude a contract in a public institution and pay a doctor to work outside their regular working hours. Such an arrangement is non-systematic compared to other systems, doctors will work on a regular basis, which is good for reducing species - what about overload, what about fatigue, and consequently what about professionalism? How many hours a day can a doctor work not to make fatal mistakes because of fatigue? For example, let me tell you about professional drivers, they can drive 9 hours a day and nothing more. There is no business contract because fatigue is actually a threat. What about the doctors who will supervise them? Who will supervise the implementation of these contracts as necessary? The answer is probably the inspectorate, and I'm saying it's gonna be very difficult. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Medical Service Act therefore bring about significant changes. We have also tabled amendments to the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats on a further proposal for amendments, together with the LDS. We will not oppose the bill, but we have quite a few concerns. However, it is good that the concessionaire under the new law must provide for a replacement. In doing so, I should point out that there is little concern for the users of the service where their doctor is or why he is not, so the replacement has to be arranged.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS, we regret that the current government does not have this law, which in certain contexts certainly means the upgrading of the current health system - so that this law has not experienced a light of treatment in this House substantially earlier and that we are considering such important content as we are talking about today under the urgent procedure. Surely, the LDS is quite fond of certain solutions in this law and, of course, we welcome them. Certain solutions in this law confirm the correctness of our justifications, comments and criticisms, according to the way concessions are granted, given the number of concessions awarded, since we have warned that uncontrolled award of concessions can result in a less stable health system. To this end, the content of this law, which introduces important changes, introduces a replacement doctor for the time of the absence of the concessionaire, has not been regulated so far. And a very important substantive supplement in this law is that the law lays down an obligation for the concessionaire to be included in the programme to provide uninterrupted emergency medical care in the area in which he carries out his activity. These are two very important additions to this law, which should be included in the law and in concession contracts already at the time of the concessions granted. It is right to supplement this content, and we hope that it will help to better provide healthcare for users. We certainly support, in this law, the provisions on the elimination of the secondary, and we support all those provisions relating to the content of the specialists. We are sure that the profession has thought this through and that the quality of all those who will carry out this very important activity after these new procedures is guaranteed. And we also welcome the fact that a great deal of reflection is also intended for the regional distribution of individual doctors, specialists, because this is also a major problem today, because concentration in larger centres creates a shortage of doctors in remote areas. Of course, he has determined something that we cannot agree with, and one of these is that this government insists, as it has already insisted on the Medical Act, that complementary alternative medicine is something that is somehow strictly separate and that Slovenia thus expresses its rigidity in relation to these issues, because the contents of this law are made by placing a sharp line between one and the other. We do not think that Slovenia is following modern trends in this respect, but above all the needs of a healthcare user who wants to have the best care possible in solving his health problems. Another issue that we have a number of concerns about in the parliamentary club is the introduction of a contract. At the LDS, we agree that the lack of doctors is a pressing problem. Of course, we want the content of the doctors' awards or the problem of training doctors to be more complex and we expected it from the Government, because many times we have heard in the debate that more creative, more effective doctors than those who are less effective should be separated from the reward system. Of course, we do not do this with a business contract, so we need to solve this problem in a complex way by allowing some variable part that would allow for the award of doctors who are more successful, because now we can do just that because they will be as successful as they are less successful, of course they want to have a business contract in order to be able to provide these services in the framework of a business contract outside of their regular working hours. Of course, we are approaching all those opinions that say that before we introduce a system of business contracts, we should have precise standards and standards for regular work, and only then could we talk about what is acute, so - as we agree - that acute things should be regulated where there are the most bulkheads where the longest waiting types are to deal with this with additional inputs as a business contract, as it is meant here. Thus, at the LDS, we agree with the content of this law, but at some points we do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u144	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the review of the amendments tabled today, 28 May. First, I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the two amendments to this Article. I'm opening an application if anyone wants to discuss it. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Have a nice hello again. So in the LDS Club, together with Members of the Social Democrats Group, we tabled this article out of a simple belief that Slovenia should show a much more flexible attitude and a greater sensitivity to the various methods that can help those who think that health care is needed. The guidance of the World Health Organisation, the European Commission, goes in this direction that it is necessary to incorporate into the national health systems the knowledge that goes to the benefit of the patient. I am convinced that such a sharp separation between medicine, the scientific expertise of medicine, resulting from the knowledge of the Faculty of Medicine and the European model, is not the only one that can be saved, so that we can defend all those possible forms of treatment that can help the patient. On my recent visit to China, I was able to choose a visit to one of their hospitals, consult with doctors who also use different such methods and have medical recognition, a medical faculty, and have very extensive experience in other medical branches of so-called alternative or complementary medicine. Therefore, it seems to me that it is necessary to find good will in order to try to find the best solutions in Slovenia as well. Our proposals for these solutions and these amendments go in this direction, not to exclude those who have basic medical education who are experts in this European part of medicine in order to prevent them from fully entering into their practice the methods that Slovenia could incorporate into its health system. Therefore, again, as we have discussed in the Law on Medicine, we turn to the Slovenian public, to the Government and, of course, to the coalition MPs, to think about this solution and to try only to find an open way to the Slovenian health system - without prompting us to defend lubrication or a shorter path to certain gains, because this is not our purpose. Our purpose, of course, is to use the most advanced medical knowledge in the healthcare sector for the benefit of users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Anyone else on Article 17? Mr. Bručan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, we agree with Mr Germic that it is necessary to work on the advice and directives of the European Union for the benefit of patients, and it is this formal separation, if I say so, that medicine and medicine are for the benefit of patients, for the benefit of patients, and this law is also intended. In fact, it is quite unusual that the LDS Group, on the one hand, advocates an explicit activity aimed at the benefits of operators rather than users themselves, and on the other hand, is so consciously and vehemently opposed to the introduction of private activities or market activities in the field of health; of course, this imbalance is difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u148	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u149	Thank you again very much for your word. I also have great respect for the field of medicine, for all those experts who can also contribute to the well-being of people who choose to receive such treatment or care. However, in no case do I want to evaluate or even link these medical professions and medicines. Here I firmly believe that it is necessary to have a clear distinction between those who are engaged and who offer in our health system so-called official medicine based on scientific, evidentiary knowledge and those who want to offer to our people who decide independently or voluntarily not to connect. Why do I think that? First of all, because this can prevent abuse from increasing control over one activity and another, and I am sure that it makes no sense or could be detrimental to our patients in particular. We know that there are a number of so-called healers who have very little or no knowledge from this area and who exploit the gullible or desperate people who are really in the situation they are in, then they also find themselves seeking the help of so-called healers. Recently, we have been able to trace this in the newspaper a case where the address Homeopathy was responsible for death. Thank God this did not happen in Slovenia, but this happened in Florence, where just as a 16-year-old, a so-called homeopathy advised a 16-year-old child about official or scientific medical care with some methods that led to his death. It's not a lonely case. There are more cases like this. Thank God it's not in Slovenia. However, there have also been cases, as we know them, and it is right to exercise control over this area. A doctor who wants to carry out his field of training has studied and is licensed to do so. However, in the event that he wants to have a cure, let him deal with medicine, and that he does not link it, because such integration does not only mean that areas need to be separated, there is also a risk of abuse, major abuse, that he will abuse his official position as a doctor, so that he can offer paying services in the afternoon or in his spare time, as I have already said, to people who are also struggling with such methods. That's why I won't support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we are not saying that it is complementarity in terms of without control, without clear consequences of use, because here today we are mixing everything. This article discusses that the doctor, not to anyone, is not talking about anyone, but we are talking about a doctor who would carry out a medical activity and a licence issued during the course of a medical activity. What we want is better than someone who is highly educated in the medical profession, that it is also open to those methods that are not possible in the Faculty of Medicine programme, either in Ljubljana or in Maribor! What's the problem? I am not saying that we introduce as much of an average as anyone likes, but that it is an expert opinion that it is an opportunity that is available, or a complete closure in one mold, without possibility, for example, professional judgements, methods that may not be so familiar to us. How is it possible that some cultures have a thousand-year tradition of building their health system and we are capable of discarding it in a priori story. I just can't agree to these things because I always give myself advice from those who think they know something that maybe I don't know. And who's more qualified to judge than those people doctors who have this epiphany. Of course, I condemn any abuse, any uncontrolled, in favour of a targeted way of using such methods. Here I think we are all united and this discussion is unnecessary. But if we can offer the patient some more knowledge with this knowledge of how to treat, which can lead to a better result at various stages - but here I open the dilemma and open the field for discussion. I speak as a user, not as a doctor, and, of course, I want a doctor to have the widest possible behavior that he can advise me as best as possible. That's what I'm talking about here today. I don't lock one lobby at the expense of another - for profit and abuse of the user. That's all I'm talking about, and I've been talking about this consistently all the time we've been talking about the medical bill, and I didn't even agree that this law has a cure, but that it's a complementary or alternative medicine. That's what we're talking about today. But if we don't want to talk this way and if we just want to inspire the content that we want to present, then of course we can discuss it in a different way. But that's not my purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, please. We're talking about Article 17. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u153	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members, we will indeed be an amendment, or an article, which speaks of taking a license to a doctor who would like to pursue alternative or complementary medicine. We don't support this solution. We did not support it even when we adopted the law on medicine, and we have already pointed out that, in fact, modern trends in the world and also the guidance of the World Health Organization speak of the need for cooperation, when we speak of so-called traditional, often by means of science-based medicine and medicine, which also deals with other methods, i.e. complementary or alternative medicine. We think that we are right at the point when we think about doctors, who acquire their knowledge from medical schools, build up with certain forms and knowledge from other knowledge that they are the most valuable doctors. These are doctors who take into account that man is not only a creature of flesh, but that man is also something that is also a soul. And the whole type of disease, modern diseases, tells us that they're developing and having their cores in psychosomatic problems. And, of course, traditional medicine avoids these things many times. Above all, this is avoided by an extremely conservative, in my opinion a narrower and smaller part of doctors, as many doctors are still open to the matter. In Slovenia, too, we have a society in which doctors are working, and they are dealing with alternative and complementary medicine, and they have warned us that in fact they will in some way be severely deprived of the right they have obtained through their degree in medical schools. There this article discusses when a person gets a license and a license is taken when a person is in grave violation of some rules, some ethical and moral rules, some professional basis. And to place it under a special indent automatically also any doctor who would like to deal with alternative or complementary medicine, I find it extremely humiliating. Of course, I think that these doctors could make the most of it to actually, as often as possible when talking about complementary medicine comes into play, but these are certain anomalies, certain exploitations of people in distress and also lubrication, I think that in people who have completed medical school, it is very difficult to make claims that they will be lubricators. Many European medical faculties have already introduced into their programmes, study programmes also guidance and knowledge of complementary forms of medicine and, on the other hand, many hospitals in Europe - for example, in the UK I know about a concrete case - also in some way within their own institutions, within their hospitals they establish cooperation between traditional medicine and complementary medicine. Here Slovenia is moving away from modern trends and I will say, somehow it belongs to the circle of the most conservative and divisive countries, which, in fact, does not see and where I think the decisive word is given to some extremely conservative representatives of the medical lobby, who, of course, fear for a lot of things in particular. There's a fear in the back. The government may even fear that certain forms, such as in Germany for example - homeopathy in Germany is part of a normal and regular health system and even part of the fact that certain homeopathic services are paid from compulsory health care. We are simply facing the fact that we want to say in such a grave way that it is not. It is. This is also what your colleagues are telling you if I turn directly to those who are doctors themselves, your fellow doctors who are actually extremely valued, who have achieved great results and who, of course, also want to explore their complementary methods at all times. Some have also given this to the Institute of Joseph Štefan for study, some want such research to be more in Slovenia, but to move from this dead point, when in fact we want to completely deny and in some way suppress complementary medicine. And in this sense, in our Group of Members, we do not consider such a conservative path to be a good one. I think that we are doing a bad job when it is to the highest-quality people who could deal with this integration and demolition of these walls between complementary medicine and traditional medicine that we are denying their license or taking away their license, which is totally unacceptable in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u154	Thank you. Anyone else on this article and the amendments? Mr. Bručan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u155	I'm not going to take a lot of time, but what's interesting is how some can distinguish conservatives from advanced ones. Everything that's advanced is based on science. And this alternative medicine, which we generally call medicine, is not based on scientific methods. So I think that talking about what's advanced and what's backward here is very depressed in this form, as was presented here today. I don't know if he has any special purpose. I don't even know what the reason is for such an extraordinary commitment that doctors can also profit from medicine; I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u156	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u157	Well, thank you very much again for your word. Again, I would like to point out that I do not object to the fact that so-called medical activity is being carried out in Slovenia. This is exactly what we adopted last year's Medicine Act, where we have actually fully defined the criteria and also the conditions that allow someone to carry out such an activity. And we just have to admit that in Slovenia, there is something new about medicine right now or there is no tradition. Therefore, we cannot compare Slovenia here with some countries where medicine or these methods have long been in place, where people approach these things in a completely different way, both in thinking and in implementing them in the same way. And so at this point, I firmly believe that in Slovenia as a society we are not yet well aware enough to connect these matters in this way. It is right, therefore, that it is an official medicine, not so that now, as some of you can see, it is protected by medical virtue - not at all, I have absolutely nothing to do with them, but I firmly believe that this area should still be kept separate. Medical care or official medicine should be carried out as instructed by the profession; as for medicine, we will also now, I hope, have it now, I hope, so that those who will be qualified to obtain a licence in this area will be able to carry out a medical activity, once in the future, that this matter can be brought a bit closer or even intertwined, and then we can change legislation accordingly. At this point, I think it would be harmful, especially for our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u158	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Given that we have already handled this subject quite well in the National Assembly at the time of the Law on Medicine, and these objections were also quite exposed at the time, exactly from the same colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, but we have adopted a law, it is true. And I think it's right - as a user, as I say, because I'm not an expert - to separate it. Official medicine is this story, medicine is this story. And finally, the user already knows and decides for himself what is best for him. He's got a shot at each other. Finally, I think that in Slovenia we have official medicine at such a high level of development that most Slovenians trust her completely and thank God that it is. However, those who do not have enough satisfaction still have the opportunity to seek alternative medicine, which, thank God, is also and if this can be said mentally. And I don't think it's conservative, backward thinking, if we think so, you think so; but, finally, with all due respect, even your thoughts can be well-intentioned, but just an amendment, I don't think it's going in the same direction that we've agreed once and for all on the medical bill to separate this thing from official medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u160	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I put to the debate Article 26, where there are also two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So, it's about the introduction of business contracts. Today there was a lot of talk, in fact from all the parliamentary groups, that we are aware in Slovenia that we lack doctors, that we have more needs than doctors or health personnel can do. In our view, and also in view of what we have been monitoring in the discussions on wage negotiations, we do not think that this solution, which is being introduced here, is systemic. Today, it has already been said here that Minister Virant himself draws attention to two anomalies of this solution by going against labour law and going against the wage system in the public sector. What is extremely important to me is the fact that it comes from the content itself. Why is it necessary to enter into business contracts? Do you really think that this will succeed in solving waiting species? I am also sure and will give an example of how to stimulate the reward of doctors, and this has been said many times by different people, that of course we have doctors who are more effective than others, and that they do more in the context of regular working hours than others, and that the problem is the stimulating reward of those who are more successful. I've heard this content a million times. And now I ask you the other way around: if there's a doctor's motive to do a job for a better profit, of course, he'll have the ambition to get a business contract. And we imagine that we have two doctors; one does 10 regular hours and the other does 5 units. Since we do not have permanent standards on what needs to be done during regular working hours, we do not know whether it is right 5 or right 10. That is why I expect, as a user, a very important document that has been concluded as an agreement between the Government and between the FIDES, that this agreement will be reached by the end of the year and that we will get standards and standards for the scope of work at regular working hours. Of course, there will be negotiations. I'll be the optimist. I believe this will happen. But if someone does 10 units and the other 5 units, both of them do quality, quality, performance, efficiency two -- just like everywhere, it can be seen -- it can be different. If they both get paid for 5 units, will the one who will perform 10 units be stimulated to perform an additional 5 units during the regular working hours? In my opinion, no, because he will not, for example, be able to reward the director of this institution for the better performance of this doctor or any healthcare professional who will do this. And of course, the motive will be precisely reversed in order to do as much as it will be paid, because there will be no second lever, so that the next five who need this health care service will come as an increased volume of work. So it seems to me that the business contracts, as they are brought in here, could be an integral part, some upgrade to what is kind of extra, which would bring new money to health. Because when I talk to the directors of health institutions, some of us talk, we have a plus, and we can't because we're more effective, we can't share this plus among the people who created it, and there's no valid reason why it's a minus in some institution. And of course, this gap is missing an important binding article - norms and standards - and then an upgraded system of payments after the better efficiency of those who are more effective. Because if that is not the case, in this case we will be able to continue to witness the spilling of doctors from public institutions. This is my way of thinking, which I am giving here, that, of course, an enterprise contract should be an upgrade to the system when we have standard standards where we have a system of payment for efficiency and give directors the opportunity to reward in some flexible work. For how can we understand that we are actually deleting in this law, we are deleting two provisions, two paragraphs, which say that there will be no more flexible work today. We are deleting this law that this flexible work is no longer available. In one Article two paragraphs, which speak of a certain part being flexible, which will be the award for work performance. Of course, there are now these concerns about why we are proposing such a solution. However, we do not reject a priori, but we would like only to know exactly what will be the effectiveness in the healthcare system, so that it does not have an exact opposite effect. For today we are correcting with this law something that we missed when we were granting concessions. We missed the fact that when the concessionaire closes the Stacuno, there is no substitute doctor. Today we put it in the law. Yes, Mr. Bručan, take a little field walk, and you'll see that a lot of this is and today we'll put it in the law. Then why would we change the law today if it didn't? And the other content that we are regulating today is also regulated by the inclusion of concessionaires in the ongoing emergency medical care programme. There has also been, for example, a misunderstanding or a different understanding of the inclusion of those with a concession, in what way to participate, for example, in important components of ensuring the stability of the health system. There are, of course, reflections here, without the priori rejecting this solution, but it seems to us that there should be other elements in the health system, which, of course, will then be effectively monitored, including by monitoring, the use of these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Žiberna has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. I do not like to report to the debates of Members, but I think there is a need for further clarification in this article. Therefore, at the Ministry of Health, we do not agree and do not consider it appropriate for this Article 26 of the Law to be deleted, which provides for corporate and other civil law contracts. Let me make a few points. So the number of doctors to increase over the next few years is about 2% per year. The number of health services is estimated to increase to up to 5% per year. The gap between the number of doctors and the health services needed by the rapidly ageing population is more than obvious. We also know, on the other hand, that the number of doctors is limited to the number of practically Slovenian doctors, imported doctors are not now, has not been worth mentioning in the past and will be even fewer in the future. For one reason in particular: medical salaries in Slovenia are significantly lower compared to the salaries of doctors in other countries and the flow is, of course, reversed to those countries where wages are higher. Therefore, based on real life, Slovenian doctors will also have to carry out an increased number of health services that will be needed. Or, on the other hand, we will have money provided for health services, we will have a guaranteed need for health services, but since we will have non-motivated doctors for extra, extra work, they will not provide this health service. And this amendment clearly aims at falling into a hole between needs and the possibility of implementation. The second fact I would like to say is that this need for legal regulation has been pointed out by the directors of public health institutions, homes and hospitals, and in the vast majority, there may also be some exceptions, exactly what they expect the state to do. Medical organisations, on the other hand, also agree with this arrangement. I would also like to say that it can be very simple to demonstrate mathematically that such an arrangement for the payment of medical services through a business contract does not in any way affect the increase in public costs, because the health department programmes funds and the quantity of services and they do not actually care how the operators do it, at what costs they will carry out, and the operator must ensure that the service is carried out in a cost-effective manner - either with regular employees, with indigestions or with business or other contracts. So, this thesis is completely fictitious and proveably stupid. The other thing I would like to say is that we have not made a legal hole in this amendment of the law in Slovenia because it is already regulated by the Higher Education System Act. However, it is permissible to think that we cannot get all the civil servants in full into the same valet, and the medical service here is a special exception if we want to provide medical services to the satisfaction of citizens in a sufficiently large amount. I would also like to say that modern pay systems are moving increasingly towards the goal of paying highly qualified people, in terms of the service system. Which means the pay is increasingly dependent on the amount of services, not on any lump sum. And it is this part that stipulates that the doctor will receive the payment only when the specific service is performed in some proportion that is actually a shift to the modern pay system. I would also like to say that the rejection of this regulation in law will really mean the escape from public institutions due to the great need for their work to private or other public institutions, and this will only create an ever-increasing degree of impreciseness over this story. I even hope to put thesis on what will happen on the contrary, which is exactly what some parties expect to be public: the blocking of this legal regime will be the opposite: the rejection of the possibility of work under business contracts and other contracts will accelerate the spread of the public health system and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please. Excuse me, Mr. Grill raised his hand earlier. Excuse me. You'll be right behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u165	Thank you again very much for your word. I, too, believe that business contracts are a necessity in our health system and I support them as such. We see that we have two amendments to this article. The first was introduced by the Liberal Democracy, which proposes that this be deleted, and the amendment of the coalition, which sets out even more in detail this article or this area. Here I must express my surprise that it is the colleagues of the Liberal Democracy who somehow define themselves inadvertently. When we discussed earlier whether it would be possible for a doctor to perform a medical activity in the afternoon against payment, where he could also pick up clients who would charge them in the afternoon, the dilemma here is expressed that doctors should now try to actually postpone clients or patients in the morning at a time when they will do so in the business contract. I don't think this thing is compatible, and I'm also surprised that you're really indisposed here. We all know that the resources in the field of doctors in Slovenia are limited. We have far too few, depending on our needs, and it would be irresponsible of us as legislators not to allow those who are prepared in their free time, if we can call it that, to provide these services or patients with additional treatment if money and health insurance programmes are provided. It has prevented this and used a number of different methods, which have been less transparent, less transparent and more complicated for implementation itself. Already on the Health Committee, when we discussed these issues, we received a number of warnings from the representative of the Directors of Health Services that such a solution should also be introduced in this law. And I don't think there's any reason we wouldn't believe them. And all right, we got it. As the Secretary of State has already mentioned, other areas where this need is demonstrated have already been regulated by law. It is therefore right that we also have this provision in this law. That's what I'd like to warn you. Just at the time when we had a Health Committee, the union initiative came to the effect that this article is actually being reshaped or deleted. Since there was little time at the time, although we have allowed this article, with another amendment, to be supplemented further so that all possible weaknesses that could be demonstrated in practice can be resolved. This amendment, which has now been tabled by the coalition, also removes those dilemmas and shortcomings. That is why I think that such a dictatorship, which will solve this area, is appropriate and will be supported as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Germich
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Comrade Grill, some of the things you've done to me here, I haven't said to you today, not when you're considering the medical bill, so I'm asking you, within your dignity, to say what we're saying, but if you're thinking of other things, I can't judge them. So much for principle, and you can look at the magnetograms I was talking about here today. Secondly, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you why do you think, if we are paying services, not doctors, we are paying services, and are applying to concessionaires of the same tariff as the public service, then why is the motive from the public system to privacy? Where's that motive? That service, the same price, same team, same cost. Where's the profit? What's the difference in earnings? Or is control of the private system weaker and allowing for some differences in this relationship? That's what I'm interested in as a user. And I stress once again, and do not deceive the public and comment in a way that I have never said. We do not reject business contracts, or other civil law contracts, because we estimate that they can be useful in certain situations. But there has to be some upgrade to the doctor's award system already within the regular work. What's the difference? And it's the doctors, that's exactly what the ministry was saying, or that you need to put these together. And here we point out that the result will not be exactly the opposite of what it is, Mr Secretary of State, and here we agree, together we want to relieve the burnout of doctors, given their number of shortcomings, allow them quality conditions for work and therefore provide them with an appropriate reward, reduce waiting periods, reduce masquerades, acute problems within the health system under the intended health network. It's not all there or it's not enough, so here's the concerns I'm giving you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Žiberna.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u169	Mr Member, I would be happy to do something quickly, although we could also read the articles on this. What is the difference between public and private? In good and bad. Because they have one system as well as the other as good as bad. Very specific. The private public service provider, i.e. the concessionaire, is operating on an entrepreneurial basis and is therefore more cost-effective, which does not mean that the service is less efficient. That's a lot of interference. On the other hand, the motive for the work of doctors during an extra time is that when he has already done his duty to work even more, he is conditioned primarily by the actual dependence of payment on the services he provides. And this has actually proved to be a real motive that a limited body of doctors can be burdened with additional work, at least in that part of doctors who have this energy and are willing to do additional services. Current attempts at various stimulations, regulations, and so forth have ended very badly and have not produced an effect. And the opinion of all the participants in the debate is also that the new regulations, which will increase the reward of certain effects, are too flat and inconclusive. And that doesn't really motivate a particular doctor who works specifically. These are exclusive reasons to believe that a civil law agreement or other contract is a possibility of additional burdens and rewards for doctors, an effective modern tool that we have not invented in Slovenia, but has been in the private sector for several decades at home, and in the developed world for decades at all. These are key professional reasons to try to install a legal tool to motivate the work of doctors in our own employer, and to eliminate this anomaly and the uncontrolled development of the health system by escaping from institution A to facility B or from facility A to private. This flow is possible under other laws, and it is with this special law that we want to legally turn to the parent employer. And we are no doubt confident that this will be beneficial and under control. I would also like to say that the Ministry is already a team made up of an agreement between the Government and the Fides union to set standards for the expected amount of work that a doctor, a public servant must do within the regular working time in order to obtain at all the right to enter into the service additional payment system that is more desirable for doctors. Not what is left to ourselves, but only when we do what the state expects us to do and what it pays us to do will we have the right to get some kind of better way of paying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u170	Thank you. Mr. Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. The deletion of Article 26 would be a disaster, I guarantee you. Not only does he do medical work, you should be aware that he also does other work in health care and allows many improvements, as well as a reduction in waiting periods. This Article 26 is an article which, once adopted, will see some of the work that has been put into this Article over the last three years. I must say that the ministry's efforts in this particular mandate have been extremely great at this point, and a great deal of effort has been made to bring this article or this solution to fruition. And here before us is now the solution that has been the final objective of all these efforts in this government's mandate, so it would be pointless to delete this article. Besides, I can tell you that we're not introducing any news at all. It is only about equalizing medical work or the work of other employees in health care with, say, higher education teachers who already have the option. In addition, the business contract applies to healthcare professionals if they perform this work in other institutions, but not in their own institutions. In this way, the problem of fleeing employees from their own institution to another institution and the basic condition for the good implementation of this Article of the law is being addressed and the conditions under which such a business can also be carried out. I think every concern here is completely unnecessary. It seems even more strange to me that you're somehow mixing this article with privacy, and you're expelling private people, concessionaires from the public system. That's not possible because it's not true. Officials are in the public system all the time and operate within the public health system. That's not what I'm saying, Mr. Germich, direct to you, if you're nodding, but I'm speaking in general. However, I must tell you that your wishes for my more frequent field visits have been on the table for 25 years now, and I am very happy and very much implementing, and I can tell you a lot about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll be very brief, but there's something I'd like to say. Firstly, I support what is written in the amendment of the law on the contract. This calls for a really good organization in a public health institution. That's the first one. Second. A good professional leader in this institution will organise the work by doing what needs to be done on a regular basis. Emergency checks, too. First of all, all necessary tasks. If I speak from my profession, I'll tell you from my profession. Third. If someone decides to make a deal, that would require his personal consent. He'll make his own decision. Of course, everyone can't make a decision either. This also requires an expert assessment of who will be able to do so. Four. This is intended primarily for those who speak from my profession, to those who have a long waiting period. Take hernia surgery, for example. Last thing I want to say. We are really talking about a novelty about medical service, but this contract IS involving the entire team in the operational team. Not only the doctor, but also the instruments, the nurses, the entire team that's in the operating room. That's why I think this thing is in place. It's all about a good organization at first. But I also support it because, otherwise, in the absence of doctors, especially the operating professions, you would run into privacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u175	Of course, this article and the debates we have just heard are a fundamental issue of how we intend to buy health services in Slovenia. If what Mr Secretary of State said was true, that services were actually being bought, but not that people were only employed, then that is not necessary. Then it's not necessary. Why? 'Cause then we'd all be on business contracts. Then we'd all be on business contracts. Since the purchase of services by an insurance company, we are not talking about paying wages, medical material, but about buying services, i.e. operations, interventions and so on, and with appropriate standards, determines how many doctors, how many staff are needed. Then, of course, there is no reason for us to have this article. This article, however, means duality. And as colleagues from the SDS Group rightly warn, of course, it means a breakdown of the entire health system. It's not a problem of waiting lines for the hernia just in the absence of doctors. The problem is the lack of funds in a health insurance company. There's no point in waiting for more doctors. The point is that when we use, I talk about hospitals, a model of groups of comparable cases, there are simply not enough resources to implement programmes in individual hospitals. That's why we have waiting species. And everything that is now happening here is nothing but in public or in private, in advertising, in business contracts, which will strengthen the supply of services outside of compulsory health insurance. In Slovenia, we must decide whether we want to have a public health system or whether we will have a dual system in providing insurance services, in ordering. And what I personally deny to the Government is that instead of deciding to transform public institutions differently, and that because of me, everyone on business contracts will be opening the door to the duality of the health insurance system. So we will have doctors who will provide services for certain special insurance companies with business contracts. What is true here is that this matter is not adequately resolved in the medical service law. Since the Medical Services Act speaks about the provision of services, we are now discussing substantively what the Health Insurance Act is. And we will legitimize duality, this duality should only result from having a poorly organised public health service, either due to inadequate funding or due to inadequate public service organisation and, in fact, opening up the possibility that a system that is a pyramid system that has been advocated by the Minister of the Government, Mr Virant, will be able to collapse overnight. Saying it's the same thing as being at the university isn't true. At the university, as far as I can remember, it's a fifth story. And at the university, this thing is about buying services. And at the university, let's be clear, duality and fifth jobs are provided primarily to allow professors, professors and so on to perform these services at another private university. That's not what this is about. This is about doctors who do not perform on-calls at the public health institution X doing this for a business contract in the public health institution Y. I think what we are warning, including former Minister Bručan, is the problem of establishing a public service scheme, establishing a network of public health care providers and then also how the health insurance company will finance it. And indeed this is the most ridiculous last paragraph of this article: "Limitable contracts or other civil law contracts shall be agreed upon by the parties for payment depending on the number" and so on "in accordance with the criteria set by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia". Listen up! The health insurance company is a customer of services. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will now be what? [[...]] In addition to the partnership agreement, which is the basis for the negotiation of which services we purchase in Slovenia, it will determine these services. Criterion and scope. That's why I feel like this case is pretty messed up. I'm not saying you don't have to do anything in this area. But then everyone should have a business contract. Then let them all be concessionaires. Except for the director of the health department. Then this duality will soon be over. Now to have a situation where, I don't know, someone, I don't know what criteria, and so on, they're supposed to do some activity, and then they're allowed to do a business contract. You know, this is going to give rise to that classic rule. There's going to be an affidavit at the regular service, but it's going to be done in company contracts. And how are you going to control or someone has three times a third of their time in business contracts? How will you control that? You're gonna need more people to control these few thousand staff and so on. And we also know that once you've had your business cuts, anything is possible. The deal's on someone, and someone else's. It's a so-called "student guide." We introduce, banalise, the possibility of a student's work for doctors outside of regular working hours, so they will be specifically paid in citations because no one is satisfied with the existing system. However, the hierarchical system has a pyramid structure, which you have invented in this government, even because of the hardness of the Minister of Public Administration, who negotiated it, and now you have a drain here called a contract of engagement. Who's going to pay the rent in the end? In the end, those who do not receive certain services will be paid. What's gonna happen? That now the offer of doctors will determine what types of services we will provide, but not whether it is a partnership agreement, or the rules of the profession, which services are actually most needed. We do know this story from some countries in Southeast Europe, where we operate unusable, inoperable. And then we have a situation that is, of course, catastrophic for a health insurance company, because suddenly we're going to have a lot of business contracts for, I don't know, open-heart operations, and then we're going to have a problem classifying patients for that. Mr. Secretary of State, government representatives! You are opening Pandora's box of privatisation legitimacy in the public health system. And that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Žiberna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. The matter is very interesting, as well as from a professional point of view. As many unprofessional inconsistencies as I've heard now, if we analyzed the performance through the text, we could really show it. On a specific occasion, I'm only going to try a few things. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance purchases services from providers, which are mostly public and partly private. So he buys services from the providers. However, the service providers shall carry out with their resources what they need, which shall be adequately trained personnel, including doctors and other healthcare professionals and co-workers. And the services of these people are paid by the provider within the means it receives from the services sold. It's pointless to connect the company and the workers in health care institutions right now. Once again, the health agency, the insurance company, is buying services from providers. In fact, it purchases services at a specified price and, of course, at the expected professional quality of these services as well as the scope of the services. The rest is the care of the operators. And once again, the providers of this service perform with regular staff, with staff acquired under other contracts, perhaps even through contracts governed by this amendment of the law, or also by "outsourcing" as a model for the operation of certain services. That's the first thing. That's another thing. In the last paragraph of this Article, the Government shall not interfere with the relationship between the Health Insurance Office and operators, but shall intervene in a segment where it has an unequivocal legitimate right, since it shall conclude and sign collective agreements, it shall be said that what is expected to be the extent of the work of anyone in the system of public servants, including doctors and other staff. And here the government has with its standard a perfectly legitimate and legitimate basis to determine this. And keep going. You have probably overlooked in the law that there is also a guardian who provides that such contracts may be concluded to a maximum of one third of the working time, which is exactly the same as in the Higher Education Act. In the supplementary amendment, which is solely intended to regulate the matter as precisely as possible in order to make it as difficult as possible, this amendment also specifies that the health services covered by this Treaty will be carried out in order to ensure that these contracts are used for the provision of health services that cannot be done with additional or regular employed people, because they are so small that they cannot be carried out in any way with the staff of an institution. The basis for concluding such a contract is also the lack of adequately educated staff. This means that it would be necessary, for example, to have five performers of one profession, but we have only three. The amount of services is not normally the same, but it is increasing. So it's perfectly logical that the three of them, if we want them to do the services, have to be motivated to do it. And in democracy, the only motive is actually more or less the monetary value you get as a reward for some service you've done. This contract will also allow health institutions to provide an additional range of services through these contractual forms, which are either intended to reduce waiting types, because these are additional programmes, either for some other programmes that the health market needs, or if you want, for any programmes that someone would pay specifically with the form of a special health insurance scheme. These matters can only be concluded by respect of the labour law and collective agreements, which take account of the applicable rights to rest and rest of individual operators, including doctors in particular. It is possible to conclude for a maximum period of six months. In clearly defined grounds, when such contracts may be concluded, in clearly defined rights, with rest and rest, in clearly defined other grounds, we do not see your reservations as justified to oppose this matter. And once again, the failure to implement this option in our serious conviction means the accelerated breakdown of the public health system in the field of operators and the actual real shift of doctors who are in very short supply, where they are willing to pay them otherwise than public servants.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u178	Thank you. Allow me to remind you, fellow Members, that we have been visited by representatives of the Commission delegation on the balcony to oversee the intelligence and security services of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I very much welcome them on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and wish them only a day. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] However, we continue, we are still at Article 26. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see three hands. We're just gonna stay here. We're not gonna go on application. Four hands in a row. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. I will briefly and myself add that the deletion of this Article 26 at this point in the organisation of the health care we have is out of the question. I'm not happy with a lot of health care myself. I am also a frequent user of services of this kind and it would be possible to take on a number of segments of what things to improve, correct. I won't list them, maybe just say one thing - I don't understand for example why a patient who is prescribed anti-cholesterol therapy every three months has to receive the same prescription. I think these things could change. And then you could also, as far as this burden of doctors is concerned, it's just one of those things that today, I would say, is chronic in this country and where almost, I don't know, one third of the population is taking these drugs. It would therefore be possible to make a number of changes in such matters, but this is no longer a matter of this law. At the moment, the situation is such that if we delete this article and actually disable these rental contracts, there would be a lot of health care houses, a health institution in a lot of municipalities without oculars, no otorinolaryngologists, sometimes even without gynecologists, and so on, not to mention. In the past, we have guided this health policy in such a way that part of the doctors went into concession activities within the public network, some of them remained in health homes. However, I am sure and also from experience that where doctors were prevented from going into concession activities, those health homes were left without doctors. And many congregations, many health homes today have this problem. I say this from practice, because even in the environment from which I come from, this would have happened if, at some point in time, they did not agree to this, in Europe, the existing model and doctors who want to be concessionaires would have made this possible. And in view of the situation where we always say that doctors are understaffed, especially when it comes to specialist activities, it is necessary, through law, to allow a doctor who is directly employed in an institution to carry out this activity in another healthcare institution, including through a sub-contract. What Dr. Bručan said is true, of course. If we didn't accept it, then our health system would put us in a much more difficult situation. However, since the health system is intended to work for patients and not for doctors, such an option should be allowed in this law. In fact, I am surprised at those who have proposed deleting this article and this possibility. I don't know, I didn't follow all this discussion, but I do know that in our healthcare home, without these tenants, there would be no doctors, and that is, of course, our people, our patients without this service. Whoever controls them was the question. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no need to be afraid of who's gonna control them. They are controlled by the species that are in the afternoon, either at four or three o’clock, or when they perform their work, waiting in front of the office and knowing that at four o’clock he will arrive, in particular at Ormož from Ptuj, or even longer. And those patients need to be processed. Those waiting for him for so long that virtually everyone comes in line, and that everyone at that time with the service is actually processed. That's not the problem with control. Of course, the payment then takes place through the service provided by the insurance company. These fears that, I don't know, someone would get, if I understood correctly, some payment just to have a contract, ladies and gentlemen, that's not something to be afraid of, and that's not a dilemma. The dilemma at this point is that health homes that do not have enough for one whole team, if it is one doctor to come, I do not know, to a certain part of this team, are said to have a certain percentage of the activities carried out. I absolutely will not support this deletion proposed by the LDS and the SD, because this would make the municipalities particularly difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President, Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues, colleagues! I also wanted to continue on this subject, where colleague Sok finished this thing. The deletion of this Article would certainly be a step back in the medical service, a step back to the users who need these services. And this may be optimal in some environments, but in certain environments this is significantly more difficult, especially in those environments where there is a shortage of such specialists, doctors and experts in this area, and they need to help each other in one way or another so that those users can also get services in less developed municipalities or, if you want, circuits. And this way, I think it already exists today, some kind of contract, whether it's called rental or something, I don't know. I know they already have this because they help each other between institutions and between congregations if you want the service to be given to the locals, the usual ones, to get as close to home as possible. Second of all, it's not a full-time thing. It is a certain part of the working time, i.e. up to a third of the working time, and the employer must also give some consent. The period is also limited, the year and 6 months respectively are proposed in this amendment. It is about helping in this Slovenian problem in the field of profession, knowledge, and especially doctors, who are too few and will not be enough tomorrow. And some problematic solution, which somehow gives the public sector the opportunity to complete things, and not least motivate the specialist doctors in such a way that they can do more than is possible there. And I don't think anyone wants to run away from the public sector into a private conciliator, but that's not too bad. If you ask me to be a doctor in the private sector or in the public sector, it is important that you carry out your mission well and successfully and that satisfied users who both go to each other and are in the public health network as well as others. How a private person now works towards that one, ultimately appreciates this user, the patient. If he's satisfied with a private concessionaire, he'll go there if he doesn't, he'll have every opportunity to go back to a public doctor. I don't see any particular problems here, and I think that this thing legalises the matter, puts out some clear possibility that it can be done in such a different way. The criteria, how and in what way, will be determined by the Government and I think that this is a step forward towards even more successful work in health, where I as a user am not optimally satisfied, and not many in this house, but we are all working together to make this even better than it was yesterday. And let's hope we're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u183	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I must say, I was encouraged to discuss this by my colleague Squeakle. However, I think that in this debate, in this amendment to Article 26, he has only shown that he is not an expert in all areas. I think he has shown here that he knows little about public health as well as concessionaires, because he still insists that concessionaires are not part of public health. I think that this article really needs to imagine what our health situation is and why we have this situation. What I mean here is this problem, not so much the lack of money that we know is also present everywhere, but especially the lack of doctors. This problem has been a long time in our Slovenia. I think I could say, 10, 20 years, this thing's been going on. And here it would actually be necessary to ask, who is responsible for having such a huge shortage of medical personnel in Slovenia today. I think it's right for Slovenians and Slovenians to know that someone is guilty of having such a shortage of doctors today. That this is not the fault of a youth who would not want to choose a medical profession, but that we just have to point to others here. I'll say, these were all those former governments, and also colleges that didn't go in time and needs. I think that these business contracts, which we are talking about in Article 26, are now the only solution in the situation we have found ourselves in. If we don't actually take advantage of this, it can actually happen that there is a breakdown of the health service. I've recently found out a lot, even in my environment, what the situation is, what the needs are. When I heard about the data on how many retired doctors work, how many doctors from various hospitals go to help the on-call clinics, to health care homes, how many doctors who have already retired for 4 hours, and in fact, I'd say they can't morally enjoy this retirement and still work extra and so on. And this work now compares with the work on student travel, in fact it is not appropriate to discuss it in the National Assembly. Also to compare the work of university professors, the real work at universities, with the work of doctors in health care, in view of the situation in one area and another, is actually not comparable. And that's why I think it's just fogging things, mixing fog or hiding things that aren't, and we should have saved them sooner. I think that I will support this amendment tabled by the Coalition Group of Members to the 26th Article, which sets out more clearly the rules for business contracts, but I cannot agree with what the Liberal Democracy and the SD are proposing in order for this article to be deleted. I don't think that's an option.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Clavor? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with a co-worker! Yes, when we talk about medical services, we are talking about an area that touches all citizens and citizens, and it is very strong. Especially all of us in this country, especially when we are looking for such or other medical help. Can you imagine that for over 36 years there were no doctors in one area? Can you imagine that never before in those real times, as you would now like to say, "the steel ones," were there no dentists? They said, "Let the people come to town, if they need anything, let them come to us." It was blasphemous to have doctors among the people. But why was that? Because it was so indoctrinated and people were simply neglected. Times have changed. And that philosophy that in Slovenia we have enough one medical faculty, that there are enough doctors to register only so many and so many, thank God it's over. Now, in fact, with things like business contracts and so on, we've been saving this deficit for the last 50 years, if you want. And now that we are, thank God, too, because we have local self-government, we have set up this network as satisfactory as possible, yet far as it is not enough, we cannot afford to let this possibility of business contracts go. Perhaps in 20 years this will be possible when the medical school in Maribor, which we finally have, has already given itself so many doctors that this place can be filled. The lack of properly trained doctors is due to the previous regime as well as to the rule of previous governments. From my experience, I can tell you that one of the private doctors worked without a contract, without payment, worked as a doctor, worked as a man, worked from the heart in one of the smaller Slovenian municipalities without having anything paid for it. Perhaps this raises the question of some, where doctors may hide behind others in larger systems, those who are working, good, and so on. There are quite a few examples of young people who have just graduated, and now they would just go to school. Yes, yes, they don't have enough in Slovenia, they want to go abroad and study mastery, doctorate and so on. Of course, that's not disputed. However, they need to know that they must first perform that basic basic service, like everyone else, and then, of course, the education will come, and so on. Maybe there's one more thing to think about. In fact, by granting concessions in various areas, it is noted that some concessionaires do what they have, the quota in a significantly shorter time than one year. And from here on out, all that's left is a self-sustaining part. Does this not raise one question? Whether these standards, although I consider them to be standards for doctors, are standards for Members, the standards for judges and thus do not seem to be the most comparable or something that would be normal or normal. But if we do, are these standards perhaps too loose? Because some, i.e. those who work, as well as many in public health care, do them faster, sooner. And also those who cover some who can avoid, and are such in all professions, of course there are not many among doctors to do work for them. Therefore, I am not concerned that with some who are willing to work and those who are ready to work under the sub-contract, I am sure that they are good, that they are working, that even in the elementary, where they are employed or in the public sector or in public institutions, I mean, the private sector or the public institution or wherever they are, they do their work more than excellent. And I'm just glad that we have doctors who are also willing to sign these sublet contracts and eliminate the systemic anomalies that have occurred in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We're at Article 26. All the debaters who wanted to talk about this article also spoke. Does anyone else want me to close the debate in connection with Article 26? I therefore conclude the debate on Article 26 and move on to Article 41. Does anyone want to discuss it in connection with Article 41? [[No, no, ……]] Then can we move on to paragraph 44? Anyone want a word in connection with Article 44? [[Nobody.]] Because no one wants to discuss this anymore, I am also concluding the debate. However, the amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3:35 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. In accordance with established practice, I ask that you check the operation of your voting devices, which means that on the right side of the card inserted must burn yellow or orange light. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the housing law. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. In connection with Article 1, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, SLS, DeSUS to Article 1. I would like to remind you, however, that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this article will become irrelevant under order number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and has become an amendment under order number two irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 4. I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Member Willi Rezman shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to urge all Members and Members to support this amendment very briefly, because we are assessing that it solves a number of practical problems in everyday life, including because this morning, the debate expressed its willingness to accept such an amendment from various types of opposition and coalition. That is why I am sure that we cannot and should not make mistakes in this amendment to follow any client references, but in principle the optimal benefit for citizens and citizens who solve their specific problems in multi-housing buildings. I therefore call on you, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Member Paula Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u190	Very briefly. We in the parliamentary group, of course, have already expressed my affection for this amendment in the morning debate, but at the same time a certain point, this amendment could legalize the construction of various foundations and so on, but I think that this amendment needs to be supported and then, in the third reading, it can be complemented by the fact that a comma is made for a dot and it is written "but it does not interfere with the prescribed dimensions of the building or building." This would actually achieve the objective and in this sense we could actually realize the matter and be on the safe side of some legitimate intervention without the consent of all owners to the facility. So much for that, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We will decide on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 30 votes in favour, as well as 30. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group and DeSUS to Article 15. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening the procedure. On behalf of the SD Group, Comrade Janko Weber shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 15 in order to really try to improve the text of the proposed amendments to the Housing Act. However, it is a discriminatory approach of the proposer to tenants in public apartments and to tenants in private apartments. When it comes to leaving an apartment for permanent departure, such as a nursing home or a nursing home, larger family members can obtain housing rights in public housing, not in private. So it's a discriminatory attitude towards tenants in private apartments. In particular, this relationship is problematic in those dwellings that have been the subject of denationalisation and have also been restored in the process of denationalisation. These holders of housing rights are also not allowed to enter into a non-profit lease after the expiry of the lease, but only and only on a market basis, which in the long term means that immediate family members will certainly lose their housing rights in this apartment. The fact is that in Slovenia we face a very big problem when someone is trying to solve the housing problem themselves, in fact, the same government has cut off the income relief and is currently with many who have hired credit to solve their housing problem a very big question, whether they will be able to repay these loans at all and will probably stay in these rental apartments. In short, an extremely unconstitutional housing policy, which does not help citizens to solve their housing problem, but rather to place an increasing burden on them from day to day or from the change of law to the change of housing law. It is not the only constitutional category of private property, it is also a constitutional right, and we find that this right is subordinated to this law. We therefore expect this amendment to be adopted so that at least this discrimination between tenants is eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, for 25, for 33. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments to Article 16. First, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 16 of the SD Group and DeSUS. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under order number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. We also want to implement this amendment, in fact, what the Government has written down in this law's explanation, by trying to subsidise rentals in market apartments, to alleviate the problems in which families living in private apartments and paying market rents. Unfortunately, this measure, proposed by the Government, is not sufficient because they only recognise a statistically defined suitable housing area that you can apply to reduce rent. The rest of the area is still thrown away by the market rent, so we also propose that this area should actually be increased by 30%, and we are really trying to ease the problems in which the tenants are in the market apartments. Let me also make a comparison that, for example, a three-member family in an apartment measuring 50 square metres can obtain €150 of subsidies somewhere under this law, but we know that rents range from €500 to €700. Indeed, the law itself speaks of taking into account in the calculation of the subsidy only recognised market rent, which is significantly lower than the actual market rent. Thus, the central Slovenian region can be said to differ from EUR 7 per square metre from the recognised market rent, while in fact the market rent is somewhere between EUR 12 and 14 per square metre. And we want this subsidy to take account of the actual market rent, which would really help the tenants. Household apartments, or tenants, are a particular problem. Here the proposer makes their situation worse because the law has not specifically defined whether the housing is defined as marketable or as non-profit. However, this law provides that this apartment is profitable and that the tenant will also have to pay a profit. This improves the status of tenants in household housing, and we also want to eliminate, soften and allow non-profit rent to actually be recognised. We hope that at least this amendment will be adopted and that at least this category of tenants will be helped by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u195	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Lipa Group, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Under article 121.b, a serious warning or reflection shall apply to those who have drafted the law and who will also vote on the proposed two amendments under number 1 and number 2. I will remind you of the story of family helpers when the state gave a right under the law, introduced an institution, but did not guarantee from the financial budget, but transferred the financial burden to the local community. And the local communities challenged the Government's proposal for a law in the Constitutional Court. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that if the Government, within the framework of the law or the legislator, any right, some jurisdiction to the municipalities, is also obliged to finance or provide financial resources, which, in my opinion, is so much more acceptable or for the serious consideration of the amendment under number 2. At the same time, it is said that the State also provides financial resources to municipalities when it imposes certain powers. In this case, financial resources should be provided from the State budget. We will therefore support the amendment under number 2, which also clearly sets out the source of funding for a new right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We are voting on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2 of the Zares Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Dr. Paula Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will be very brief because the debate was held this morning. In fact, it seems to us in the parliamentary group, as well as in the broader sense of imposing certain obligations on the municipalities, but at the same time not providing them with certain resources. Once again, I would like to stress that the largest congregations, some specific industrial sites such as Hrastnik and the like, will be affected. This is why I think it would be fair and fair for these funds to be provided directly from the state budget, so that we do not harm large cities, especially Ljubljana, which will contribute at least half of these funds for these purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u199	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the SD Group, Comrade Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u200	Thank you. Well, given that our amendment has not been adopted, I would like to say that the Group of Social Democrats will support the Zares Group's amendment. However, we would like to stress further that it is indeed an urgent need for the State to provide the amounts or funds to subsidise tenants in market apartments. In fact, we must not forget that the same government, within the framework of the tax package, has abolished housing relief for all those who are trying to solve the housing problem themselves and for this purpose will come into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia around €35 million. So, only by abolishing tax relief for those who are solving their housing problem will the state budget receive €35 million. So, it is a known resource, a known resource that the state budget has, and it would really make sense for this amendment to be adopted and also to allow the State to return at least part of the funds it has collected in the area of housing to this area through market rent subsidies. This is just one of those small points with which we can mitigate a completely ineffective housing policy during this period, and we therefore hope that there will be wider support or majority support for this amendment, and thus preserve the real part of these funds that have been taken from solving housing problems, and we will return to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Colleague Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again. I would like to say that the Members of the DeSUS Group will support the amendment because it is good. I'm especially personal. I would also like to ask those Members, including those of the coalition parties who, at the 4th Article amendment, were hoping to vote in favour, and those who had not yet gathered enough courage were sitting here, and they were not hoping to "shush" anything - to gather this courage and start thinking with their heads.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have concluded with explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Does anyone want an explanation of their own voice? Comrade Bogdan Barovich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u204	Thank you. We will absolutely support this clear amendment. Colleagues and colleagues, since there are a lot of mayors in the National Assembly, you can only confirm by pressing the "yes" button what I'm about to say. You all know that the congregation is already one way or another - the local community, I'll say - paying 100% of the subsidies for non-profit apartments. In the case of the municipality of Trbovlje, which has 20,000 inhabitants, let me say that subsidies from other areas also take almost 70% of the budget; I repeat, 70% of the budget is for subsidies, for housing, for utilities, for kindergartens, for which you charge us through this law an additional 50%, which are so much more sensitive because a lot of people will speculate and want to stay in apartments that are marketed because they are better because they are better, and they will also be happy in practice, they will apply for non-profit housing, they will apply to us over 200, and we have seven non-profit apartments for distribution. [[...]] It's a picture! But this is the picture of all the congregations. Because you're mayors here, so I think that other choices, unless you're going to give all the budget just to save social and subsidy and nothing to develop, then do it! And let me remind you that we'll probably talk about the congregation law a little later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 16. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 34. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 25. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 37. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group and DeSUS to Article 39a. Please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. With this amendment, we would also like to make it a fact that the tenants who entered into a lease prior to the adoption of the housing law in 1991 and who are still doing these housework, or who have also retired in this post or who have not been found to be guilty of leaving this apartment, may be paid non-profit rent by the tenants or their immediate family members who continue the lease in accordance with Article 109 of this Law. With this, we want to ease and somehow align the relationship between these tenants and all the other tenants in public apartments. We want them to pay a non-profit rent, which we find perfectly logical, if I may say so, and let us hope that this amendment will be adopted and that at least this category of tenants we are trying to deal with in the same way as everyone else in public housing, but not to make their relationship worse. In fact, the applicant foresees that in these apartments they have to pay a profit, which does not mean that many of these will also become part of the group of applicants for subsidisation, which means that their social situation may deteriorate after the adoption of this law. And in order for this to not happen, we are putting in this amendment, and let us hope that it will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus the second reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 1 of the amended law, so I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] We note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I also inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to the amendment adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. That is why we can move on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I have already announced in my presentation of the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats that we will not support the amendments and additions to the housing law, because it does not really bring any concrete solutions and does not improve in fact any area for which the proposer has actually created the content of this law: it does not resolve the relationship both between the top-level owners and those who have not yet registered their property, it does not resolve the attitude towards tenants in denationalized apartments and it also creates a discriminatory approach to tenants in private apartments compared to the tenants in public apartments, it makes the situation of tenants in residential dwellings worse - in short, a law that we do not think should look at the light of the world and therefore we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u209	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Zares, colleague of Paula Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Even in the Group of Members, we will certainly not be able to vote for this law, although the changes and additions bring certain useful solutions - not all of them, but some of them - even subsidising market rents for those with low incomes is, of course, a way out, better than nothing and some mitigation of failed housing policies in the sense of choosing between a less bad and worse option. Of course, it's nothing, it's a better option than nothing. We only hope that these subsidies will come into the right hands and that they will not, in particular, spill over into higher prices of these market rents. The fact is that our amendments, as well as the amendments of other opposition parliamentary groups, were in fact not adopted. This, of course, left the possibility for the law to be reformed in a solid manner, so we will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u211	Thank you very much. So can we move on to a decision on the bill? No, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Member Willi Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief, so long as I say we'll support this marriage. Support in particular for this because some positive changes only bring about, in particular, those relating to socially disadvantaged people. We believe, however, that it is necessary to express regret again and again at the great part of the coalition and to say again that the democratic centralism of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia is no longer the right method of working in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision on the bill? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft water law. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 35 of the SD Group. Before the vote, however, the explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Janko Weber. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. The amendment we are proposing is intended to prevent unnecessary rises in the price of water proposed by the Government in order to pay subsidies from this withdrawal to farms located within the water protection zone. We do not object to the need to take into account the loss of income on such a farm due to the water protection regime and the limited mode of farming, but point out that this law already has a source which is intended to pay for this loss of income. This is a water refund, which also includes compensation costs under this law. The applicant shall try to charge the loss of income twice, once through the water refund, on the second occasion through an increase in the price, which the operator of the water network shall then, on the basis of a contract, transmit to the relevant farm located within the water protection zone. The amendment speaks of the fact that the price does not rise, the water supply does not rise and that the source needed by the water network operator to pay the subsidy is provided from the water refund. It is a truly fairer approach and, above all, a fairer attitude towards all users, so that we do not double charge them something they have already paid through the water refund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? So we are voting on the amendment to Article 35. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 27 to 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our decision-making on the amendment and thus the second consideration of the bill in the context of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a full decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 51, 4 vs. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will decide on the amendment of the LDS and SD to Article 17. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 37. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 17. Speakers of the parliamentary group: SDS, NSI and SLS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments tabled to Article 26. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1, the proposaler to the LDS and SD Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the amendment under order number two. Speakers of the parliamentary group: SDS, NSI and SLS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present and 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 41. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 44. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 17, 26, 41 and 44 of the bill. I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to submit additionals to this article? The word is from a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u217	Therefore, in connection with the applicants, none of the Members present announced that the third reading amendment should be tabled. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has announced a harmonisation amendment, which has not yet been tabled, which means that we will decide on the harmonisation amendment on Friday after the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - discusses the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on Article 6 and two amendments. We will first decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2 of the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group, this time to Article 15. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments and thus to the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am also informing you here that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to the additions adopted on the home working body, the proposal of the law has not been harmonised, so we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 15. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. However, we are going through or continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos Work is not suitable for further consideration." I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. On behalf of the Lipa Group, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will ask you to vote against the proposed decision of the parent working body, which says that the law before us today is not suitable for further consideration. I am aware that the law we decide today is the law that needs to be corrected in certain parts. But if we vote against the decision, let us allow the law to go into a re-trial procedure, to deal with the mother's working body, where it can be corrected by amendments. And let me tell you, before you make a decision, when you press a push button for or against it, it's a law that eliminates what the government has passed a long time ago: the government has enacted an unequal treatment of people in our country. Those persons who directly worked with asbestos have minimum rights under the law adopted by the Government. However, persons who may have worked only in a factory producing asbestos or who have come into contact with asbestos because they have lived, I will say, on the other hand, the factory does not have any rights in our country. And this is unfair, this is immoral, this is also unfair from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the situation in this area today is chaotic. In our country, it does not perform its functions, despite the law, nor does the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, nor the Ministry of Health, nor the Ministry of Environment and Space, which should have control over the removal of asbestos in the environment. Today we still have 1/3 of the buildings covered with asbestos cover. Today in our country we have several so-called wild, black deposits with asbestos, no control. On the other hand, those who have minimum rights under the law already adopted simply cannot obtain these rights because of the lengthy procedures that are being carried out within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and, unfortunately, the reality is that, due to these procedures, which are being carried out for one year or more to obtain a certificate, persons who should also have the right to compensation are, unfortunately, dying earlier; and this is a real, respected colleague and colleague. I ask that you do not support the proposals of your mother's working body and allow the law to resume the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u219	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Member Willi Rezman shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Members of the DeSUS Group will strongly oppose the proposal made by the mother's working body, because we do not intend to be among those who do not have understanding for the sick. That those who do not have this understanding in this House, something, in the past, have already shown a number of laws and debates in this regard. We saw this last in the Proposal for a Law on Social Transfers, when they also decided against the disabled. In the past, the DeSUS Group has supported the interests of those who have become sick because of asbestos and has also had to give in to its views so that at least there is little left of what we have proposed. Now that time of indulgence is over and we believe that it is necessary to allow this asbestos care process to continue, so we will vote against what has been proposed by the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Yesterday you watched on these screens footage of the effects in the lungs that you touch, enough of just one fiber. And this fiber, asbestos fiber, does not necessarily have to have been obtained in the workplace, could have come into contact with it also outside. If the Institute of Medicine had signed under an almost ordered rejection of this law, the same author stated in newspaper and other statements that it was not necessary to assess whether a person had been sick in or outside the workplace, for it was enough to wash his wife’s clothes at home, such as that of a man who was at work where he came into contact with asbestos and brought this fiber home. In this law, we speak of the fact that there is no separation between people, patients, those who have only been sick in the workplace, outside of it, and that certain compensations, rather than leave, can be fixed for these people. And I do not want to be understood - this is already the fourth intervention in this law - as a request, as a plea for something that the state should give or give for its mercy. That's justice. And that's the right that 5,000 people demanded this time. 5,000 people and more people have signed up under the union's petition until yesterday, and they're watching you today. Yesterday they were sad, disappointed, let's let it be that they didn't have to be here all the time, but disappointed at the fact that everyone had promised and opened the door to them in the past steps, after all, the president of the country. Also on behalf of perhaps the former late president of the country, who did not wish to sign a law that discriminated against patients. The face will be on the palm of your hand, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u223	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SNS Group, Member of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I won't ask anyone to vote. Let each one decide on his own conscience. The fact is that Slovenia is full of pigs, chemical poisoners, repellents, insecticides, pesticides and everything. The fact is, something has to be done. In view of the fact that the previous law was rejected a long time ago, and it is correct that it was rejected, despite the fact that one Member recently lied about how my vote prevailed, and I must say that on 29.3.2006 at 0.23 p.m. 51 seconds, the 15th regular meeting was held when 7 votes in the differences between the law which was then in the debate were rejected. In short, let us leave the false statements of certain Members alone, but the fact is that it is right to support this law. That is why we will vote against the decision, and I think that is the case. In the Slovenian National Party, in the parliamentary group, we even filed a criminal complaint against the company Finali Trading, which also deposited asbestos waste in a very non-transparent way, if we say so. And at the Institute for Material Research we paid for the research from our personal resources, specifically, Lucky Friend paid out of his pocket research; of course everything then was later disguised and strange results showed. I think we should call another minister here to account and ask him why these results were strange, but the actual situation shows a terrible situation in this area. However, I think it is now time for us to adopt this law to give it further consideration, to vote against this decision, despite the fact that it is unlikely that this law will still be adopted in this mandate. In short, once again, we will vote against this decision and thereby confirm the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u225	Thank you. I shall open the application procedure for explanations of vote on my behalf. If you'd like to sign up, please. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. Yesterday, on behalf of the Group of Members, I announced that we will vote against the proposed decision by the Social Democrats. In 1996, first traffic and sales of asbestos products were banned - however, it is known how roof coverings and other things are eliminated. In 2006, a law was passed to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos - and we know that many people who are ill do not see what is lawful to them. And at that time, we called on the Government to address the issue of those who were equally exposed to asbestos exposure outside factory halls and fences. The government has done nothing since 2006 despite repeated attempts by various opposition groups. She now rejected the law with a promise or view that in one marriage it was necessary to resolve in a comprehensive way the issues of all those who were in any contact with an unhealthy environment. When you don't want to solve something, then you hide behind the general formula. And the government has renounced the issue of exposure to asbestos from those in the environment, not directly in the workplace. If asbestos patients are the only patients with a professional disease registered in Slovenia, it would be right to take a possible first step in those who are exposed to asbestos in the environment in which they live. Once again, we will not support the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Member Maria Pozsonec has the floor. You're giving up. Thank you. The word is by the representative of Vas Klavor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to repeat what I said the first time in the National Assembly when we were dealing with asbestos issues. I will not vote in favour of the decision of the parental committee. I'll support the bill. I will also support further any proposal for a law that will no longer separate those who have fallen ill inside the factory or workshop due to asbestos and those who have been sick living outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u230	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In this law alone, am I saying one thing — are we able to respect the principle of righteousness in this room? Since we vote differently than we say we respect this principle, we are not prepared to respect this principle. Today we have considered the Law on Medical Services, and from certain sentient species today it has been said that health is a value. If it is true that health is a value, then, unlike words, show it by action today. Because it's very easy to say when you have to show that you mean it, but the story is completely different. We have people exposed to asbestos - the same cause. All people have no consequences, but a lot of them. And that this national assembly separates those who worked with asbestos from those who were also exposed, of course, is an injustice. And supporting the decision of the parental committee also means that this national assembly clearly and loudly states that it is for us to cause injustice. Let us reflect, and if we seriously believe that health is a value, then let us also show it by this vote and allow the law to continue its consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u231	Thank you very much. However, a fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Zagorac, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. On 29.3.2006, 00.23 51 seconds. Veto to the Act on Eliminating the Consequences of Working With Asbestos. Parliamentary group SNS, then with 6 members: Bogdan Barovic - against the law, Srečko Friend - against the law, Sašo Pece - against the law, Boštjan Zagorac - against the law, Žgajner Tavš Barbara - against the law. The victory of the Elinčič Noble - for the law. Who's lying? On the basis of this veto, my distinguished fellow Member, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, almost lost the presidency of the Kosovo Commission in a narrative held in the National Assembly, but the Constitutional Court has decided otherwise. Lucky Friend, my then fellow Member, has come to my office, and that will be the truth, with tears in his eyes, because he was working, I will say, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u233	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u234	Because he was working for those railway workers who were in contact with asbestos at the time. At that time he blamed the victory of Jelinčič for allowing what he had made possible for an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd be happy to oppose the conclusion of my mother's working body because I know it's the right thing to do. Victory Jelinčič, Slovenian National Party, as you have seen, has some other criteria. And keep those standards going, not selling us stories for kids today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I'm going to reopen the application circuit to explain my voice. I ask all the debaters to stick to the explanations of vote to the current law, which is today and here, at this point in the decision-making process. I'm opening the procedure. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to go into Mr. Zagorec's nebulosis, which his brain potential can't bear to know that seven minus two minus seven minus five means two, not anything more, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u237	Excuse me! If you don't mind, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u238	But I'm going to talk about other things, and you, Mr. President, don't understand many things, but okay, let's leave it for another time. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u239	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u240	The fact is that the laws that in [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u241	We'll go to the vote. We're voting, by the way. There are 66 Members and Members present, for 36, for 29. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the maintenance of the state border, a bill on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. Member Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to present the position of the SNS Group. You have the floor. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor to which you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Although, Mr President, you do not know that a procedural proposal needs to be given priority and that is what Mr Školč requested, but good [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u243	Are you going to talk or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u244	Aren't you going to let me talk? Thank you very much, Mr. President. Don't let me talk. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u245	Thank you, too. Colleague School. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to ask you if at this point you will take the place you have been elected to. For the fact that there are intolerances associated with positions in relation to the membership of parliamentary groups and, I will say, endanger the conduct of the assembly is certainly not good. That doesn't mean we're all complicated. Mr. Vice President is quite upset. We've never heard anything like this before that would upset anyone, especially you. A few days ago, Minister Vizjak here was talking about not knowing who he shot, but not responding. It's about who understands and what doesn't. Let us allow the possibility that this is not right, but surely it is not right for the President to allow his position to be abused so that he does not let the one with whom he disagrees say his word to the end. I disagree with Mr Jelinčič in the vast majority of matters. I also requested his party's deletion many years ago through the competent minister, Mr Pirnat. We have filed various accusations, but you must let him speak in Parliament. This right is under threat at this point, but you are quite double-faced in these things and allow some serious accusations, and here you are looking at things that benefit you. Please take your seat and keep the session going, or we will have to watch out for who is leading the session if we want to give our opinion at all in a more or less graphic way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u247	Thank you very much for your position. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We're moving on to 29. On the day-to-day basis, this is the decision on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the regulation of military graves. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, Joseph Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the Government! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary were convinced that the soldiers and civilians who lost their lives in both world wars because of various military events had the right to a decent eternal resting place agreed to regulate war graves. Following the principles and regulations of international humanitarian law on the treatment of the dead contained in the provisions of the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 and the Additional Protocol, of 8 June 1977 on the protection of war victims, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Hungary signed an agreement in Lendava last October on the regulation of war graves. The Republic of Slovenia has already signed several agreements with other countries, namely the Federal Republic of Germany, with the Republic of Italy and the Czech Republic, in the field of the regulation of war graves. Preparations for the signing of the agreement with the Republic of Croatia are final, and we plan to conclude an agreement with the Republic of Romania, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro in the future. According to international law, the Republic of Slovenia regularly maintains some 100 World War I war graves, but regular maintenance is not enough to preserve them as historical, architectural, monumental, cultural and petite features of a time-series from our history. Although a number of funds are allocated annually for the investment renovation of military graves, they are sufficient for the reconstruction of one cemetery per year. For these reasons, any assistance is welcome, and the signing of an interstate agreement on the regulation of war graves is also a suitable form to address these problems. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the regulation of military graves mainly regulates the maintenance of military graves of Austro-Hungarian soldiers of Hungarian nationality from the first world war in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and several graves of Slovenian soldiers in the territory of the Republic of Hungary. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the regulation of military graves. At last, however, we expect more political will in the National Assembly for a dignified and final settlement of this issue at our home. It's the graves of Slovenk and the Slovenes, the victims of the horrors of war, and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I refuse to say my position or position to the Slovenian National Party because I would not be risked by someone turning off my microphone, not letting me tell you what I think and not letting me think about it in my own way. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u251	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no other panellists. And since the mother's working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - Confirmation of the Official Clearance of the Road Traffic Safety Act. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Road Safety Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, and 47.11 votes against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the text of that proposal has been officially clarified by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 31. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider, for the first time, two proposals by the Council of Justice for the election to the judicial function by means of proposals for decisions. Another time. Proposal by the Government for the appointment of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund with a proposal for a decision. Third time. Proposal for a decision supplementing the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Fourth time. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-Presidents and Members and Deputy Members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who have participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction is politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner and that it is unsupervised, and because of the suspicion of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of direct or indirect linkage between current and former actors and holders of public arms functions since 1991-1993. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on individual proposals. We are moving on to the appointment of two proposals for election by the Judicial Council. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals to the Assembly for the election of candidates for judicial office in the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. The President of the Council of Justice is with us. You want a word? You're giving up. Thank you. The proposal for a law was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for debate, so we can move on to decision-making. In this way, I propose a motion for a decision on the election of Ms Petra Virt to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present for 54, against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tanja Korošec Vidovic to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 51, for 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Government's proposal for the appointment of the Prešeren Fund Management Board with a proposal for a decision. For consideration by the assembly, the Government submitted a proposal to appoint members and members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zares will present the position of Ambassador Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u252	Thank you very much. On this occasion, I think it is right for the National Assembly to thank the previous leadership or members of the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren Fund, which was chaired by the director and Professor Dusan Jovanović. In this and also in the previous term, led by Professor, director and screenwriter Meta Hočevar, there have been some fresh ideas, fresh emphasis and changes that have made the Prešeren Fund and its protocol a bit refreshing. Let's say more flexible and penetrating grips. The practice has been introduced to publish the candidates for the Prešeren Fund award on France Prešern's birthday and to publish the main winners of the Grand Prešeren Prize on that day and several other changes or worthy emphasis have been made in these two mandates. While it is true that every year there were some, for example, references to "excess", which was mainly linked to the single final award or protocol. For example, in this mandate, if you remember, President Aleš Jan resigned because there was some misunderstanding about the alleged shortening of the speech of Prešeren winner Irene Grafenauer. Mr Aleš Jan is now returning to the board of directors and is likely to be confirmed today as everyone else has. It is also true that every year a number of thrills arise when awards are given, as good artists and artists are more than prizes themselves, but this is also understandable. It is not understandable, however, that the Prešeren prizes, which are certainly the highest awards for creation in the Republic of Slovenia, are sometimes overshadowed by those who should be most respected and appreciated. And may I remind you here of the statement made by the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, who, in this Chamber a few years ago or at the beginning of his term at the mention of Prešeren's prizes, waved his hand and underestimated them gravely. This unworthy gesture raises questions about the sincerity of his congratulations, which he gives to the recipients of both the Prešeren Fund and the two large or one Prešeren Prize on 8 February. And one more thing. Recently, in Slovenia we competed for our song and our place in Eurosong. At that time, attention was outstanding, media, and so on. Our performers followed her, followed her to Belgrade, had a priority place within the central information shows in RTV Slovenia, in short, some concerns, feelings, respect, care for the singer and her heartbeat were expressed. Nice and good. However, in this context, I would recommend to the new members of the Prešeren Fund Management Board that they take care of similar, greater penetration, popularisation and all the dignity earned by artists and holders in their mandate. Sometimes their rewards are not only moral but also mental recognition in a possible situation where there is not enough. And let them also make sure that they are as flexible and as flexible as possible, as open and as obediently as possible to make decisions about spiritual work. I will not say that I agree with all the names proposed here, but I will certainly not oppose the list that came to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u253	Thank you very much. There are no other speakers to discuss, so we can move on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote a proposal for decisions on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision supplementing the decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. My colleague Borut Saiovic will introduce you. Are you calling it off? [[...]] There are no other panellists. We can therefore move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision supplementing the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who have participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles - medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction is politically negotiated, operated in a non-transparent manner and because of the suspicion of customerism and corruption and the suspicion of a direct or indirect link between current and former actors and holders of public arms functions between 1991 and 1993. The proposal was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, as it was said, for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by colleague Alojz Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members and Members! I don't know if this is going to be the position, otherwise it's called New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party will explain why we decided to step out of this commission or if I say otherwise, why we don't want to continue to participate in this commission. There are two reasons. The first reason is in the President who leads this committee. As President Milan Cwickl leads this committee, I have been in this National Assembly for eight years, I have already been a member of an investigative commission, and I have not experienced anything like this. However we have tried to make the remaining members of this Commission, in order to make the work of this Commission normal, this cannot, of course, because it does not matter what this Commission is supposed to find out, but what it must find is already in advance, and so does the President. As a rule, members of this commission do not come to the floor or are on this committee just for some kind of scenes. For the President does not give his word, he gives his conclusions, we do not normally vote on anything, but he is simply taking decisions on his own. The only decision taken by us on this committee was the evidentiary decision by which we determined who would be witnesses in this process. This evidentiary decision was agreed by all the members of the Commission, except for Mr Cwickl. What it was about: we agreed that, at the time that Slovenia is leading the European Commission, we would not invite the members of the government, President of the Government, before this commission, but we had agreed that it would be enough if we invited only the Minister of Defence at this stage. Once again, we all voted in favour of such a decision, except for Mr Squeak. Well, before we could talk to the Minister of Defence, the three members of this committee changed this argument and decided by their own accord, including that the President of the Government should also appear before the Commission. This, I think, is unusual, but three members, Mr Moge, Mr Squeakl and Mrs Orzmova, can take any decision. And so, too, this evidentiary decision was rectified in such a way, by voting. Such a decision has also led to the appointment of Mr Prebil, a member of the Management Board of Viator&Vektor, who is also the owner of the System Technology, as an expert in this process, and in this way has actually brought some information from the field of military technology into the hands of a competing company. This was also a matter which has received some publicity in the public and which has also reached Finland's Patria, which has begun to take an interest in these matters, and which is probably why this process has also been initiated now before the Finnish investigative authorities, which, I believe, in this matter, will be thoroughly examined in what has actually happened and whether the transaction has indeed been untransparent or there have been any irregularities in this process. In general, these are the reasons why we decided in New Slovenia to leave this committee and to give ourselves practical attention to more important work than to listen to Mr. Brick, who raises one and the same questions which I witness on this committee does not leave to the word that he takes from them, jumps into the word and, as I said at the beginning, then works on the conclusions that he owns and also this report is already written and prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Robert Hrovat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable present. We regret the actions of Mr Sok and New Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're really sorry that he made that decision. On the other hand, this does not surprise me personally, because the situation in this commission of inquiry is totally chaotic and because of the President's inadequate and inappropriate functioning, the work in it is really difficult. It is necessary to reiterate that this is not the first time that Mr Rezman has left this Commission, which has given similar reasons to Mr Sok's today. Mr Squeakl, who should be a model and act honestly and in the interest of the legality of action, is indeed using a variety of completely inappropriate methods, which do not have any common point with democratic governance. Personally, I think that the President is using entirely inappropriate methods, such as: violation of the Rules of Procedure, will, arrogance and disrespect for the proposals of the other members of the Commission, including disrespect for the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the creation of a media spectacle, and that the measure would be full, this marks an example of good practice. Mr Cvikl, with his reckless actions, is more than likely to damage the reputation of the National Assembly and, consequently, our country of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the companies involved in the purchase and manufacture of 8X8. Here I think mainly of Gorenje, which surprises me because it comes from that end of Slovenia. In doing so, I would point out in particular his appointment as an expert, where we have reason to suspect that this is a classic case of industrial espionage and probably corruption. I have just received the President's reply today that he rejected the initiative of the three Members, which we have tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to obtain an independent legal opinion on whether it was appropriate to appoint an expert who was employed by a competing company. We would like an answer as to whether Mr Squeakl should alert Mr Broke to the conflict of interest. We would like to know whether the expert opinion, which we consider to be biased, can be taken into account in the preparation of the final report. Mr President says that this has long been over and that the damage to tax money is for such a legal opinion. That was the answer I received today. We can only ask ourselves what and why Mr Squeakl is completely undemocratic and inadequately leading this committee. Is this because of the desire for a media spectacle or because its party is willing to carry out activities, regardless of the consequences for Slovenia, just to rise to power? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, from the very beginning, we have been constructively involved in the work of a commission investigating the purchase of 8x8, of course, in the desire that when the work is completed we actually reject or confirm the suspicion that business 8x8 was about any irregularities. That is what we would like from the President, but we are already halfway through the Commission's work to witness his deception and the findings that he is launching in public on behalf of the Commission of Inquiry without the consent of the other members. As I said in the introduction, we regret Mr Sok and New Slovenia's withdrawal from the Commission, and the way in which the Commission is managed by the President is entirely understandable to me personally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u257	Thank you. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! It is probably not customary for us to discuss at the plenary session of the National Assembly whether membership in a particular working body will be replaced. However, there are statements on the reasons for the withdrawal, and even more so the statements made today, such that it is necessary to react in order to hear the facts, not just the false accusations. For today you gentlemen spoke only of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that it was unfair conduct to scold a visit to the National Assembly, without telling what action it was. I have not heard one single act that would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Three members have the right to propose evidence. It's the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Parliamentary Commission shall have the right to communicate to the public what has happened after the end of the Commission of Inquiry. You do this to all the presidents of the investigative commissions and you talk about it being wrong or something that can't be done, it's not even close to the truth. Therefore, the real reasons are not in your statements; the real reasons are that you do not want the facts to be established by this commission of inquiry, honestly, I agree, correctly with all witnesses and investigators who have not yet been identified, but have found. I'll tell you that I don't believe your argument and argue my reasons why I don't believe you, with some facts that show me how you understand the proper conduct of business in the National Assembly. First time. For you, proper business conduct is if a minority investigation is not allowed, as happened in the Mercator case. The request of Members and Members was rejected several hours earlier and it was impossible to investigate a specific case. You mixed him up in 83 cases, and you didn't say anything about him. You did not allow and wanted a case to be investigated, perhaps involving very responsible people from your coalition and your government. This is your understanding of the work of the investigative commissions. Next. In the Commission on Local Self-Government, when we discussed the proposal for a referendum, what has not yet happened in this House: instead, instead of the majority of you being prepared to take a decision on the postponement of the meeting, your majority simply, as the journalists wrote, "be lost at night." She left, three-quarters of an hour ago, and last but not least, the president was non-profit-making, not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, resolving the situation when he found out that the meeting had been suspended. This is an indisputable incorrect act that has not yet happened, and this is because, at the time you should have voted, you did not have the majority needed, because DeSUS had not yet split up and decided that part would support your referendum and some would not support it. A third such case is the last proposal tabled by Mr Jelinčič or the Slovenian National Party, which calls for the replacement of Mr Cwickl, with an argument that he should be heard about things which are not at all the content of the inquiry in this Commission of Inquiry. And the last. An example of misconduct is also the argument made by the President of the National Assembly to our warnings when he equated the correct question of Mr Kumr, who asked the Minister, "Do not you feel responsible for these abuses as well?" Asking the Minister whether he was not feeling responsible is a perfectly correct question and based on this question on the harsh insult of the Minister of Economy when he said to Mr Kumru "let him shoot another one, as he had done in the past". It's a cruel insult, and I think it should be ashamed of this National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u259	Thank you very much. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u260	that the President did not protect the Member. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u261	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of the Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. First of all, Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will abstain from voting on the proposal for a decision. I regret that Mr Sok is leaving the investigative commission to ensure the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of the treaty. Gentlemen, ladies, Members and Members of Parliament! Don't forget what the subject of this investigation committee is. We are investigating whether, after the Ministry of Defence has decided to choose Rotis with non-existent capacities, the contract which was signed has resulted in the implementation of the contract as the offer was made. And today it is clear to everyone that we are sitting at a meeting of the Commission, if we look at the documents that it was, I quote Mr Črnkovic as "an offer for 150 cars 385 million", but if we take into account the prices in the signed contract, this is at least €90 million more expensive. So it was a fictitious offer. Today, we all know, four weeks ago, I was attacked by suppliers, that someone in Slovenia, in order to enable Rotis to improve the fictitious offer, also got something for it. I regret that the investigative authorities in Slovenia have not yet worked as investigative authorities in Finland. And I regret that the Slovenian mediator, if you like, also Slovenian local representative Patrie decided to attack the National Assembly when we investigate what you have authorized us to do. There was no problem until we found out the facts. There are thousands of pages in the basement and in the closed rooms of the National Assembly and in the internal documents proving how skillful the Ministry of Defence has made the contract worse for Slovenian taxpayers. And the investigative commission that you set up, and I'm running it, and in which the members are responsible, both from the coalition and the opposition, has broken through these documents. And the facts are such that Mr Dragan Bavčar, head of the negotiating group, at a closed meeting, cannot deny that there is a discreet person between the offer and the contract. These are the facts. If there's anything we need to do, we close the public hearing and we'll say more. But now all I'm talking about is these things that are already public. And if you think that we will now go through this in the Slovenian Parliament, then of course you did not elect the right president of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. And all these maneuvers that are now happening Yes, let me be heard by the Black Commission, which is opening business by 2004. [[...]] No problem, but this parliamentary commission of inquiry is concluding its work, and we are concluding it. We are coming to the most important hearings, and these are the hearings of why Mr Podgrajc, who was subordinated to Mr Črnkovic, during the arms affair 1991-1993, were both subordinated to the President of the Supervisory Council to Mr Zagozno, and were all subordinated to Janez Ivan Janša, and the invitation to tender should be rejected, but Rotis's offer as well as the offer of Systematic Technology should be rejected. This would be in accordance with Slovenian legislation, not that we signed the defence deal of the century and we are trying to argue here about what we are and what we did not buy. This is a violation of Slovenian taxpayers, and such are the facts. They had the same case in Finland a few years ago. They bought French military helicopters, and they were said to have been "hung". The whole of Finland, the coalition, the opposition, Parliament, the Government, the Finnish mediator, have merged against the foreign supplier and have received additional weapons. And this is where you defend the middleman. Who are you really defending? And I'm closing with the next thought. If there was anything in the so-called espionage, then Mr Wiitacorpi would not today declare that there will be no investigation. When I took Mr. Mladenov into these rooms [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And whoever's incarcerated today has been told that there is a so-called suspicion of a conflict of interest. [[...]] I said, my dears, you have a conflict of interest to prove, and then you sue me. There is no lawsuit, no espionage, because this gentleman saw these same two "machines" two years ago under the orders of the Ministry of Defence. And everything was fine with him until he realized what we were finding was an abuse of the position, an unscrupulous minister who signed something he should never have signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u263	Thank you, too. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Miran Potch has the floor. You're giving up, thank you. Member Joseph Horvath has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My forerunner is an eclectic example of a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We are talking about a proposal for a decision that changes the composition of the Commission of Inquiry. The speaker spoke of content. We knowingly went to this committee to help cooperate in the search for the truth and to present this truth to Slovenian taxpayers, all Murina workers who pay from their salaries also for the purchase of arms for the Slovenian army. We have left this commission for, once again and for a hundred times, the undemocratic and non-profit leadership of this commission by the President of Milan M. Cwickl. This is an insult to some members of the Commission. Now I can also say some of the former members of this commission. It's an insult to the President's attitude towards those invited to these sessions. If you don't believe us, then maybe there's a truth to the fact that we read the address in Slovenia's biggest diary: Did Squeakle fight with Gorenje? But that to whom to think? Why did the Finnish Patria rise? But that to whom to think? And I'm repeating what I said on the Mandate Election Commission. This commission, led by Mr Squeakl, leads this commission on the principle: "Commission, this is me." And we have already been able to witness the draft report of this Commission, which Mr Squeakl has apparently already written on the Commission's terms of reference. Because of the impossible situation, due to the undemocratic conduct of this commission, we do not want to participate in this committee. And I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to take this into account and to support the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u265	Thank you very much. And the last one is a Member of Parliament in writing to discuss the issue, fellow Member Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u266	Thank you very much again. Just for a little while. We have examined a lot of material in preparation for this committee's meetings, but there is only one view, only one opinion and only one truth in this committee. I even prepared for Mr Črnkovic's hearing this afternoon, examined a lot of materials, had a lot of questions prepared, and then I couldn't get words for two hours as a member of this committee. After two hours, when the president ended the recurring issues, he closed the public meeting, removing the journalists, and then opening the session one hour later, he came up with a procedural proposal. And that's what our sessions look like. And here, in this way, it doesn't make sense to keep working. And here's what I'd like to say. Indeed, the President shall have the right to communicate to the public the position of the Commission after the meeting of the Commission. But not your position, the position of the commission. And if the President intended to do something for this commission to come to light, then, of course, every time he came before the press, he would try to form a position with the members of the commission. I was so used to it when I was a member of the commission led by Mr Zammernik. He's always asked all the members if they agree, and I'll say that in front of the press. Of course, this is not the case with the President. On the other hand, it usually says something completely different to the press than it did on the committee itself. And the other thing. If I really tried to make some progress in this Commission, some goal, which he was also talking about here today, then I would try to, for example, accept the Commission's evidence conclusions as such with at least some minimum consensus. Not so that three members, I know that three members can take decisions, but three members from the opposition take one evidentiary decision, three members from the position can take another evidentiary decision. Yeah, then how can such a committee work? That's impossible to do. And that's how this committee happens. And since that is what is happening to us, I have decided, and the Group of Members has agreed that we simply get out of this committee. The assessment is that this commission, which operates under the leadership of such a President, will achieve nothing at all. And if you don't believe me, then you'll see it soon enough. However, it is not necessary, I would tell our colleagues from the largest government party to regret our exit, because now the Finnish police have been involved and I believe that the Finnish people will take a closer look at this matter than this committee under the leadership of Mr Squeak, because it is already ready to do what is to be written in the final report. Not a fact, but a political assessment before the Slovenian public, not for the needs of Slovenian taxpayers, but for the needs of Slovenian voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Given the fact that I have seen a few deadlines raised, we cannot extend the debate because it was a preliminary debate. From this point of view, I am concluding the debate. Voice explanation, classic procedure forward, no worries. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want to explain their voice? We will open an electronic application, and I ask all those who will explain your vote to stick to the motion for a decision that speaks of leaving the Aloys Sok commission and not the content of the investigation. I'm opening the procedure. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u268	I have it in my name. I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u269	Mr. Pukšič, we'll repeat the procedure. We will first invite those who are on behalf of the groups of Members. Thank you very much. I ask all those you want on behalf of the Group of Members to sign up for an explanation. On behalf of the SNS Group, Member of the European Parliament shall have the floor of Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I am sorry that colleagues from NSI are stepping out of this body, in fact, this is about the exit of a member and his deputy. I think it's a shame that this happened, but it's completely understandable to me. After all, the first to leave was Mr Rezman, who is now coming out of Sok. I guess if the case wasn't for the end of the term, someone else would come out. It is a fact that Mr Cvikl is acting very strangely, very self-sufficiently and in disharmony, both with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and with the documents and acts of the Commission itself, and very voluntarily sets out everything together. We were very surprised when he ordered Mr. Pretzel to be one of the most important members and members of this investigation, who investigated all the documents and documentation of the company involved in the case, but when he could have known if he had read this magazine Viktor, issue 20, year 2007, December 2007, where on page 10 it was beautifully written down, who made up the board of directors of the company Viator and Vector, where Prof. Dr. Ivan Prebil was written in fourth place. I can't think it was either a mistake or a coincidence or anything, but I'm sure it was a deliberate act. I also think that Mr Squeakle is actually suitable for the witness in this matter, and that is why I have today submitted to the National Assembly or to the President of the National Assembly the request that Mr Squeak be heard as a witness, that is to say that he is removed as President, and be heard as a witness, as I once said. There is a wide variety of information in the media, very interesting information. Information linking Mr. Brickle to various persons involved. I will not determine and decide whether Mr Squeakl is guilty, but it makes sense that he shows up and clears up what is true and what is not true. Because here in the National Assembly, we are looking for the truth, and the only truth can clear things up. There are too many pigs in Slovenian society. There's too much thieving in Slovenian society. And that's why extreme and only action is to make things clear and to show what they are. I will and the Group of Members will support the wishes of NSI colleagues, with all regret, but this is their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u271	The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a decision will be presented by colleague Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group will also support this proposal for a change in the composition of this Commission and has sufficient reasons to do so, since, as has already been mentioned several times today, I have left this Commission more than six months ago. And even then, the Desus Group supported this and also supported the reasons for the exit. Therefore, it would be appropriate to follow the President's instructions not to talk about the content of the investigation, but about the new composition and the reasons for the derogations. I would not speak today if it were not said that none of the reasons why individual former and current members of the commission of inquiry disagreed with the way in which they worked on this committee. I myself did it several times in writing, and I did it by sending it to the summit of this National Assembly, complaining about the work that was done on this committee, including the work of the President, because, in particular, it went to him and I regret to find today that it was no one's fault. When it came to something marginal, that's how some people understand it, the customer DeSUS was so much the same. Perhaps this circus today would not have been possible if we then considered whether the reasons given by Member Rezman were appropriate or not. In order to be appropriate, the legislative and legal services' written reply to the fact that they were also provided them with the conclusions which the Commission later adopted and I proposed them and were accepted by other members of the Commission when I was not even present. And that the reasons discussed were appropriate, the fact is that my proposals for amending the minutes were adopted. And I, without wanting to do it today, will not repeat what was going on - it makes no sense, but without wanting to offend anyone today, but I find that perhaps it was not the most appropriate choice when they chose Mr. Squill to run this commission. I then - either write it down, or I say, I don't know, but I realized it wasn't appropriate because he likes to argue, and if he runs out of others on the committee, he'll argue with himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Mose will present the position or explanation of vote on behalf of the LDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will clearly support this decision. But we don't think the argument behind why someone gets off the committee is a good one. I must say, the president is a magician. Milan Squeakl, as chairman of the working committee. But he's worked hard mainly because of his commitment to work and because the things he's dealing with are really thoroughly studied, he comes in the day with arguments and he can't wrap it around his finger as it could be given to anyone else. And from here it is likely that fear of coming to the truth will also arise, and it will reveal what was actually going on. The Commission, such as it is, is a Commission like all others, is the President and is not the decision-maker, and is the majority of the Commission's decision-makers. The meetings of this Commission were extremely long because of the problem, and this may not somehow suit some people who, in addition to the function of a Member, perform any other function for which they receive half wages. And these people sent their deputies to this committee many times as long as it went on, and in the end, almost no one was there. I really regret it, or in the Liberal Democracy, we regret that you left this commission. I don't think that's good, but I want the commission to do its job to the end. However, we believe that this syndrome, which is always occurring in these commissions, is the following: these commissions are essentially political and bring about a political judgment, not a legal judgment. In a political judgment, however, there is always a political option, either a party or a party, that can lead to a much shorter end. And when things get tougher, and when there's sharp optics, when someone starts to feel threatened, then they don't talk about this thing that's a matter of inquiry, but they all start from the first to the last attack by the chairman of the commission. And the President of the Commission is responsible for everything, with his conduct, with his procedures and his conduct. I think that to many of our colleagues who run such a commission, not only to their colleagues, we are giving ourselves unjustifiable judgments about him, which are somewhat discredited in public and thus the work of the Commission. And I think that aside from these sessions being difficult, and without anyone being afraid to come to the truth, that was the main reason you decided to leave this committee. As a long-standing Member alone, I felt no pressure there, and I endured what was. Therefore, once again, in the Group of Members, we will support this proposal and we regret, Mr Sok, that you are not continuing to work because you were of quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u275	Thank you very much. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Lipa Group will be given by Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At the Lipa Group, we will not touch our colleague. He's not giving up, he's still the president. With pleasure, not with regret, we will support the nomination of the members of the Commission from New Slovenia. He who does not want to work, let him not work, let him withdraw, and let him give room to others, to those who desire. I'm going to play a little visionary, and I'm going to say that the more we come to this conclusion that something was wrong with the patriots, that it was corruption, the SDS representative, representing the entire government coalition, with the SNS on his tail, will also resign. You'll probably all step aside as soon as we find out there was something wrong. As far as the Mura workers are paying for the patriots, I must tell you to those of you who said that Paloma's workers have already paid for the referendum you're asking for, the ties you're wearing, and so on. In this case, it seems to me that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u277	My friend Zagorac [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u278	that Patricia is still the least important. [[...]] As I said, we're not going to get involved with a fellow Squirrel. Whoever doesn't want to work, just get out and give space to those who want to give space to those who want the truth in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Member Miran Potrč will give an explanation on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u280	We have already decided in the parliamentary group on the Mandate-Election Commission that we will abstain. For we know that an individual and a parliamentary group has the right to resign and resign and we cannot deny this right. However, we abstain from reasoning that is incorrect and inaccurate. And for a short while, only three things. As long as the honourable colleague Sok compares the powers, tasks and work of the Finnish police with our investigative commissions, it will be so difficult for me to accept his argument that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the investigative commissions have been violated. Mr. Jelinčič also, unfortunately this time, not for the first time, accused without evidence. There is not a single fact in his statement that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u281	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u282	Not a single thing to talk about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u283	As well as I know that the explanation of vote is, we have concluded the debate and debates [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u284	Mr. President, you're right. I apologize. I will only say that I have not heard any specific arguments from other debaters today. I am sorry that, according to my opinion, Comrade Squeakl also said something that was not appropriate because we are not talking about the content of the Commission's work, but about procedures that have not been proved. Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Before I open the procedure that some of you have requested to explain on their own behalf, at least allow me to invite you to allow my colleague Sok to step down if he has so decided from the said Commission and to proceed to a vote or confirmation of his own decision. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? I am opening a procedure to explain to the vote on my own behalf the decision of colleague Sok to withdraw from the Commission himself. Explanation of the vote on the motion for a decision, Mr Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u286	I have to say my voice for Aloise Sok to get out because he's connected to me. For I am his deputy on this committee, and I myself am resigning from this commission, so that not only should we consider him now. It is right, however, that I should state those reasons why I am resigning from this commission and why I am going to press this vote for. I will say that I, too, resign because the way in which this committee is working, and in particular the management of this committee is not appropriate for an investigative state-level committee. There's been a lot of talk about this today, and it doesn't make sense for me to repeat it. I would just like to say that New Slovenia does not resign from the commission because it would be afraid to discover what this commission will discover. Here Nova Slovenija sleeps very quietly, no matter what this commission discovers or does not discover. But it is true that Nova Slovenija wants to do well and because Nova Slovenija wants to work, she resigns from working on this committee because work on this committee is not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote also by Mr Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll vote for the decision myself. I regret the resignation of both colleagues, both colleague Sok and colleague Koren. In a way, I am also trying to understand them, I myself have been a member of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances for two years, and I am trying to understand this debate, which is partly, I will say, I confirm that my colleague Squeakl is very demanding, pedantic and, above all, a somewhat difficult committee president. Perhaps even some reasons remain mysterious, why it emerges at this time. But this is a matter for those who have decided to do so. I only hope that the Commission will continue its work and that it will successfully complete its mission. In the end, allow me, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Moge, you really have a problem with the mayors and Members in this House. Each thing would be almost to blame, including the fact that Comrade Sok is mayor and Member of Parliament and is resigning from this commission. That's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u290	Thank you very much, colleagues. I'll support my colleague Sok's request and his wish. I certainly understand him, as did when Comrade Rezman stepped out of this committee. The two meetings are still before the National Assembly and the least interim report should be considered, rather than a key report when we listen to the President of this Commission, saying that they are only key witnesses before they are heard, but of course, the President of the Commission does not actually have any adjutants in his hands. Except maybe he's accusing this coalition, and he's guilty, and the minister's guilty, and it's not fair that he went to the acquisition of these patries, and this coalition, with the invitation. It should go under the table, as was the case with the LDS in 1994 and with the System Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u291	Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u292	True, this point is on the agenda without need and there is probably some defect in the Rules of Procedure, why vote on the will of the individual who said it was no longer possible. Everyone has the right to stop. Of course, it is regrettable that Parliament is not able to institute an investigative commission as the last asset that should be in the interest of the ruling coalition, and also of course of the opposition, in the interest of the Slovenian public, such as in the interest of every other public in every country where the investigative commission in Parliament is set up to clear the clues, doubts, doubts about the transactions financed by state money. It is only surprising that in this insistence on voting, the Lord and his deputy may withdraw from the Commission. What if we vote against it? But then you will be in our interest, and it would be wise for you to do the work to the end in our common interest. You don't want it. Halfway. Why? Between the time you announced that you were no longer going, it came to the public, independent of us, a lot of things that in democracy throughout Europe and around the world are considered "sanctuaries". You know what that word means. If doubts arise, we are the first parliamentarians to do everything we can to investigate and prepare so far as to cast doubt, doubt or confirm and to submit the documentation to the relevant authorities. There is no need for a law on parliamentary investigation and a Rules of Procedure, which is similar to that of the one who conducts the proceedings in the prescribing and criminal and other proceedings. That's what a parliamentary investigation is for. I'll back you up because I don't have another option. In this case, however, the Rules of Procedure are bad, since it is necessary to allow those who do not want to go and who do not want to go to the end, that this is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u293	Here. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the discharge shall be carried out in the same manner as the appointment. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u294	Thank you very much for your word. I also welcome the attention of my colleague Pukšič in front of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u295	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on. Bad hearing.]] I'm not arguing, so I'm the only one with me. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u296	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on. Bad hearing.]] You have nothing to discuss with yourself. [[...]] [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u297	Only a fellow Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u298	Regardless of the debates that have taken place now, there is some rule, some belief, and also the fact that the impact of parliamentary investigative commissions is very small, is not envying. And why is that? Because often there is no real interest in the fact that something is actually being investigated in the commission of inquiry and that the commission of inquiry would also find what it was appointed for. Then on either side, someone's blocking it. But so that it is not just sand in our eyes, we are now apparently witnessing an investigative commission that suggests some effect. And as far as I know the President and my colleague Mojet, whom I know even better as a member of the Commission, I am sure that this investigative commission will lead to the end. And those who do not have an interest in it are evidently more likely to push their heads into the ground and hide or leave, thus trying to reduce or even disable the work of the commission to the end and reduce its credibility. But look, if people are already locked up somewhere else, if there is any suspicion of corruption in purchasing these patriots, then at least in normal countries the government is stalling. There's nothing here. It's nobody's fault. In addition, the work of the commission of inquiry, which was previously appointed, is disabled and thus tried [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u299	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u300	Yeah, well, let me finish my sentence - if I was disturbed at the beginning of half a minute. So this commission should be disabled. Well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Comrade Slavinec. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u302	Let me once again say that I will support this proposal for reasons. I cannot agree with myself that the reasons I myself cited were unjustifiable accusations made by the President, as has been said. That's why I'm going to try to argue. As a member of the Commission, on the basis of oral and written requirements, the President was not allowed to look at the magnetogram from the public session where the televisions were recorded. I was not allowed to make editorial corrections, which allows the Rules of Procedure. I was not allowed to look at the minutes, although the meetings were public. I was not allowed to put my proposals for conclusions to the vote. And so on and so forth. And that's all in these writings that people on this committee got. And later all my comments were taken into account and respected by Mr and also by my friend, Comrade Rudy, was the first to come to tell me that they unanimously supported my proposals. So he probably did it, too, and there were rational reasons for doing it. Of course, there is some absurdity that you find difficult to accept rationally. Absurd is called a minority decision. And if you look at these magnetograms, you will see that some Members and Members who were not present at the meeting, in the minutes, have taken minority conclusions that have considered everything else that was said at the meeting that was final.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u304	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm basically in the role of co-signatory of the request to investigate the purchase of 8x8 bicycles, and I'm satisfied that such dust has been raised in the way the commission manages. This proves that the request at the time was justified. If the coalition were satisfied today with the work of the Commission and the conclusions it was coming to, it would mean that our suspicion at the time was unfounded. But this time we are witnessing a concentrated attack by the President of the Commission, because there are certain findings. Finally, the implications of Finland itself prove this. His character, his way of leading it, look, I can also talk about another commission of inquiry, where we also have a president who can personally disturb me, but who I have to work with to the end, and finally I am also vice-president. Everyone has their own style of work. It is important that it works properly and that there are certain findings. Unlike the others, if I understand the lack of interest and anger of Comrade Sok, I will not support the proposal. If I have the right to choose, I vote yes, I vote no. Because I don't want to legitimize in this way some eccentric attempt to weaken the commission before the end of its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u305	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 40, 5 votes against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for an annual levy law for the use of motor vehicles, the regular procedure. On Thursday, 22 May 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. However, since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on the basis of the draft law, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled, of 28. 5. I am making an amendment to Article 5. The candidates are SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u306	Thank you very much. The strategic objectives for Slovenia are achieved only through the participation of all departments. This is also stated in the development strategy of Slovenia, so we welcomed the last year's annual levy on the use of vehicles in road transport, which was intended primarily to contribute to a cleaner environment in which we live. One of the strategic objectives pursued by this Act is more coherent regional development, which in one of the articles exempts certain types of vehicles, including tractors, which means an additional contribution to rural development. One of the strategic objectives, however, is certainly to improve the demographic picture and this is followed by this amendment, which seeks to contribute more at a symbolic level. I hope that, for the last time, this article, to which the amendment has also been tabled today, has been very easily heard and approved by the fans of old-fashioned vehicles or old-fashioned vehicles, I hope that this amendment will today also attract such support. For all those who have a slightly greater love for children in Slovenia, for whom, if they have four or more, they must buy a more expensive car or have two cars, I think the argument is enough to support this amendment. And like I said, this time I will support this amendment, and the last time I'm not the one about loving old-fashioned cars, because I thought it was in direct conflict with the intent of marriage. It is said that the law is supposed to have the intent of reducing emissions, so I think today will agree with this amendment at least as last time with the amendment on old-fashioned cars.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u308	Thank you. We support this idea for this amendment, which reduces the annual levy of 50% of the annual private car premium if it is a family-owned vehicle with four or more children. At the same time, I must point out that we regret that the amendment of the Social Democrats has not been adopted, which envisaged that 40% of this duty should be applied to local communities, 60% of the country, in order to improve road safety, because it is not enough for you to use a vehicle. There is also a need to ensure road safety and thus we can ensure greater safety for both the number of families, for which we also recognise the exemption from the vehicle for registration or use of roads in Slovenia. Let us hope that traffic will take place safely without this, but we regret that the National Assembly has not been prepared to accept this as we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Comrade Bostian Zagorac, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. As one of the predecessors said, we will support the symbolic amendment in the Lip Group. Finally, it gives large families an advantage or 50% reduction of the annual duty on the use of motor vehicles, but I wonder whether you have forgotten or perhaps even requested an answer. What about foster families? In this case foster families have seven children plus their own children, or they are also subject to this amendment, or this applies only to families with four children. Is it also true about foster families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? Will the government, the government's representative, respond? [[No, no, ……]] Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Dear Government Representative. What my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, has pointed out is a matter that is, I believe, worth a serious answer. Whether this amendment gives the right to reduce funds, to exercise this right also to foster families. As we know, I believe that you too should know that under the laws of the foster family, they are not equal to families where only biological or adopted children live. And given that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already received a number of specific comments, requests and initiatives to give foster families rights. After all, it's big families. In these foster families, they live alongside biological children, and in addition to adopted children, children, or foster parents, and their offspring. That is why I say it makes sense to answer the question raised by my fellow Member. If these families, the foster families, fall out of the rights you are granting with your amendment, it makes sense as long as it is open, corrected or corrected. Please, distinguished government representatives or representatives of the Ministry of Response.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u315	Thank you very much for such an answer. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude my apologies. [[...]] My mistake. Messenger Potrat, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u316	Thank you. It is very interesting to hear the answer now, and I hope that one of my fellow Members will also be able to identify himself, because individuals have come to the office of the Member to one of the colleagues and have pointed out the problem of those families with multiple children and, unfortunately, even more children with special needs. And because of the fact that a family with several children can drive in one vehicle, which in all respects is very good, it is difficult for such a family to exercise any other right. And when I asked the question myself from different ministries, I never received such an answer that would in any way allow more children with special needs to be exempt from any charges due to this specific circumstance. I am pleased that the Government is so very understanding of the amendment of the four coalition parties and I am glad that this is not my amendment, because then it would not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 5, the amendment of the four parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have also ended our decision-making on the amendments. However, since the draft law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 16 which you received on the bench. Would you like to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members want the word of the present Member? [[Not at all.]] I therefore conclude the debate envisaged and move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has been adopted. And we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also interrupt the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Friday, May 30th, at 9 a.m. An extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will be held tomorrow, starting at 9 a.m.
