ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and calm down. It also applies to government representatives. Thank you. Have a nice hello again. We begin with the 41st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Andrej Fabjan, Janez Kramberger, Marko Pavliha since the 18th hour, Maria Pozsonec, Anton Rop, Majda Spending from the 17th hour and Drago Koren from the 15th hour. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 5. 9. 2008 The proposal for an extension of the agenda has not been submitted, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Before voting, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. There were 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Mr. Purchast, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Pursuant to Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of Social Democrats proposes that the debate and decision on the agenda of this meeting, as requested by the Group of Members and Members of the Government Coalition, be postponed until the necessary decision-making material is provided. We are convinced that the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly does not meet the basic business conditions. Preparation for this point is completely inadequate and insufficient, so it serves to blur things out and mislead the public, as the basis of the stagegram or magnetogram of the Finnish programme on Slovenian patriotic purchases and some articles are ten years old, which cannot all be the basis for quality decision-making. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly on Controversial Purchase of Armours has set up an investigative commission, and if we allow its work, today the meeting of the National Assembly would not be necessary at all, since the issue of the purchase of armoured personnel could be discussed and decided at least in June and early July. In the Group of Social Democrats, we stress that we explicitly want the facts to be clarified for the benefit of citizens and citizens and truths, but we estimate that discussions and credible decisions on the proposed content can only be made if the requested material is presented on our part or if the panellists decide to withdraw their request, as it would be much better not to discuss the issues on the basis of political opinions, but rather to have the opportunity of the competent law enforcement authorities and others. I would like to point out that we have given the proposals we are proposing to fellow Members and Members of Parliament at the table so that they can examine them. I propose, Mr President, that you put to the vote the decision to submit the materials annexed to Members and Members, this item of the agenda, and to make the decision when the materials are made available to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u3	Thank you. Well, since this is a procedural proposal for materials falling under point 1, I must, of course, open this point first, and then we will discuss or decide on a procedural proposal to break the point. So we move on to 1. Agenda item - This is for the defence of the proposal for conclusions in relation to the defence of the decision to equip the Slovenian military with infantry combat vehicles 8x8, in a manner consistent with the implementation of the international public declaration and in a manner consistent with the findings of the alleged corruption claims in this exercise. You have heard the procedural proposal, Mr Školč, first I must open the word on the procedural proposal, you will get the word of the leader of the parliamentary groups. In this proposal, which you have also received at the table, I hope that all of you, where the type of documentation you are supposed to obtain is indicated, are proposing that the point and meeting be interrupted and that access to these materials be made available. I must say that only the first and sixth materials are of such a nature that they are in our domain, where we can offer them or give Members an insight. Members always have this option, they have it so far. It is a contract for the purchase of eight-wheelers and expert opinions held by the commission of inquiry or by the commission of inquiry. In doing so, it must be said that the anti-corruption clause is already available to the public at point 1 and may be considered to be fulfilled at point 1. With regard to the draft partial report, however, I must mention that the Commission has not adopted any report and therefore such a draft does not fall within the official documents of the Commission. The last three questions or initiatives are of a nature such as that of explaining to the President of the Government that clarifications could also be given orally in the National Assembly and that is why sufficient time is foreseen for discussion. Of course, with regard to other materials and mediation options, we cannot decide, this can only be a requirement, an initiative for the Government to mediate this material. So you have heard a procedural proposal to stop this point until the materials listed here are obtained, or to allow all Members to look into the materials of the investigative commission or to receive an appropriate response from the Government. In this regard, I should also mention paragraph 74, which states in the second sentence: 'Transposition of the case which has been placed on the agenda in accordance with paragraph 59 of this Rules of Procedure to one of the following meetings may only be proposed by a group of Members, on whose proposal the matter has been placed on the agenda.' However, this is not a postponement of the sitting or anything, but only a suspension. I estimate that such interruption should take at least a few days. However, the time limit for us to continue with this agenda item cannot be fixed now, you will certainly be informed later. So, I call on or give the opportunity to report to the leaders of the parliamentary groups in order to identify themselves until the proposal. Check-in is on. Of course, a representative of the Government and the proposer can also comment on this proposal. Mr. Skull, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! From the first day we received material for this meeting, I am of the opinion that the materials proposed by fellow Members from the positions parties are not sufficient to be able to decide on the title as set out here. The materials are necessary, I will say, not only because of the Members, but also because of the Government and the President of the Government, who has reported his debate for three hours. He wanted six hours. Mr President of the Government stated on 2 September: "The government has decided on this business in the previous mandate and, on the basis of this decision adopted in the previous mandate, has carried out all other procedures: from call to call, to election and to the signing of the contract. Not only did I not get involved in these proceedings, because it was not a decision on my own or on a government level, I was not aware of it either. I don't know the contract, I never saw it, I didn't sign it, I didn't tell the minister to sign it or not to sign it." So we will also do a great service to the President of the Government and his ministerial colleagues to get to know the one, the treaty and all the other documents so that this debate can at all be brought to fruition. I do not imagine that we could use this debate to talk about the broadcast of Finnish television, to identify ourselves with journalists, which is in the manner of this government, which takes the media as its freemen and public television as a conference forecasting service. This also began with the announcement by the President of the Government in Odessa. I believe that it is high time for the National Assembly to have an overview, as well as for the government colleagues of Mr Erjavac, of the Treaty and other documents, from which we will see what good two years have been discussed in the Defence Committee, at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and on various issues. Without these documents, it is impossible to have a high-quality debate, and Mr President, I think it is your duty to suspend the meeting and assure us that I will say these materials. Not to look at, but to the usual use of Members and Members. It's not that we can go into a room to watch this, it's that we have this decision on the table. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, you're not a group of Members, you don't have a word. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to apologize to my colleagues from the Group of the Liberal Democracy and indeed apologize for not saying in the introduction that this is our joint proposal. I must say that this is how we agreed before the meeting, and the proposal for these materials to be presented is the proposal of the Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy and Really. Secondly, in Social Democracy we have always felt that this session is not well thought out, that it is unnecessary, that during the election campaign, policy is bad if it wants to determine what is right, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is wrong? We believe that this is a poor journey for our work today, but if the ruling coalition wants and believes that it must ensure that these things are discussed directly before the elections, then there must be Members and Members for us, for the Government and for the public, a material that is indirectly the content of this agenda item. The agenda item is written in such a way that everything can be discussed on the basis of it: it can be discussed on the Treaty and how it happened; it can be carried out on the evidence that is intended to be in public, against the operation and manner of the contract; it can be discussed on possible corruption; it can be decided on how the law enforcement authorities have acted well or poorly so far. These are all issues that can only be properly debated if we have the minimum material submitted so that we can say anything about them. However, it would be much better if the National Assembly were to conclude, of course, I agree, Mr President, that only on the proposal of the applicants, and that is why we do not formally propose this - that this meeting should not be held and that it should be allowed to work normally in the relevant places in the law enforcement and judicial bodies, but not that it should be tried in advance or otherwise through political decisions that can always be voted on by a majority in the National Assembly, to influence the opinion and the work of the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Peche. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u8	Respectable present. A group of Members, namely 35 Members, all of whom come in line from the majority of the government, has presented us with a request for an emergency meeting. In the context of this meeting, three proposals for conclusions shall be proposed. The first decision, which essentially speaks and gives, protects the back of the Ministry of Defence and in which the National Assembly is supposed to say that the Ministry of Defence, President of DeSUS, Karl Erjavec, did the right thing in the procurement of military vehicles 8X8. The second conclusion is that the National Assembly gives precisely all the authorities of the State Prosecutor's Office and the Slovenian police within the framework of the work, the acquisition of military vehicles 8X8. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen from the government party are providing us with material on which to decide. This material, however, contains two newspaper articles from Del, two magazine articles from Mag’s week, and a newspaper article from Nedela. Therefore, on the basis of five newspaper articles and a communication from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for communication, the National Assembly, as the sovereign branch of power, should give it to the President of DeSUS, Minister of Defence Karel Erjavac, to decide to buy, to make a purchase and to select an intermediary, while Croatia did not choose it when purchasing identical equipment. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia requires this National Assembly to give exactly the total inactivity of the State Prosecutor's Office within our country. From this I think the question is whether we are bluffing only ourselves or bluffing the entire Slovenian public. We all know that the conclusions you propose will be adopted by the parliamentary majority; in the form you have imagined. But if we want to maintain at least a small amount of credibility in front of us, in front of the electorate, in front of the citizens, in front of anyone, or if it makes no sense that our decision is based on documents, contracts, but not on the basis of five newspaper articles, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all these Members come from three ruling parliamentary groups. In my opinion, today's meeting of the National Assembly is a heart-to-heart meeting, a farce. On the other hand, decisions will also be voted on. I sincerely hope that, as part of my presentation of the position of the Lip Group Members, you will allow me to familiarise the National Assembly with some other documents. Especially those documents that point to the commission story, the story of the authorship of the arms trade. Of course, I support the proposal submitted to us by some opposition parties. To decide on the basis of five newspaper articles on such a very important matter, forgive me, we all know what it is, but it is only about humiliating voters and voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Of course, in the Group of Members, we really support this proposal, because, as my colleague Potrč has already said, we have also signed a request for some additional documents to be submitted to the Assembly, without which a high-quality debate cannot be held, including a contract, an anti-corruption clause and more; a whole series of things that are controversial are obviously hidden from the public. What we would specifically like to say in the Really Group is that we expect these documents to be presented - because what do we have here today? Today, Members of the ruling coalition have requested that we discuss the work of the Finnish media, the Finnish law enforcement authorities, the work of the Finnish state. All that's missing is that you're demanding that we translate it all simultaneously into Finnish. Last but not least, this would make sense, because only in this way will the Finns be able to find out what is going on in Slovenia, because the Slovenian police and the prosecutor's office have been trying to obtain any relevant information for a year. Apparently, from Slovenia, this information somehow does not reach Finland. So what is more than obvious is that today you imagined a pre-election session and if four years ago you called an extraordinary session just before the election campaign, four years later, as you are in the government calling for an election campaign, and if, God forbid, you get another term, you will probably call an extraordinary meeting in four years' time on election day if such a trend continues. It's a farce. You are turning the National Assembly into a typical pre-election ring, with time allocated by 70 percent of the time falling out of the coalition and 30 percent of the time to the opposition, which, of course, also points to how you understand the role of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the coalition, mainly from the largest government party and its New Slovenia branch, it is mainly about the fact that we are having an obvious pre-election debate here today without the relevant documents. That is why all we want in the opposition is to at least allow us to get these documents to be seen. And remember that you made a case when you solved the head of the investigative commission, who came very close to revealing what was behind Patrio's case. And apparently, he got in the way, and you just abused the rules of procedure, and you just replaced him. And today, instead of serious findings, we have a pre-election session here, whose purpose is, of course, very clear; matters to be covered up, erased, evaluated, but not seriously left to law enforcement authorities to do their work in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the Group really wanted to convene this meeting first, but they beat her to it. Probably because they didn't know what they could do during the paperwork. But it appears that this documentation is very well known to gentlemen from those parties who today are against discussing here in the National Assembly. After all, the fact is that the Finnish journalist who was in close contact with some Slovenian journalists, some Slovenian MPs, some Slovenian police officers, with some Slovenian presidents of certain commissions - they know everything well, because this list is one that only someone who probably has these documents could draw up. And I would expect Mr. Squeakl to give these documents to which he spoke of seeing them and knowing them; and if there is a copy in the Finnish hands, he probably has them too. I expect we'll see these documents here. It would make sense for us to see them, and on the basis of them, we decide what is going on in this matter. However, it can happen that Mr Squeakl has nothing in his hands, and the only thing he has in his hands is that draft partial report from the Commission of Inquiry, which is written according to his inspiration and the inspirations of those he protects. It is true that there is a huge amount of money there and that it is necessary to do anything for this money, including falsifying documents, throwing bubbles into the air and sometimes taking financial injections from some major Slovenian financial companies that support both some Slovenian and some Finnish journalists. I would ask myself, what would I do, say, England, if Slovenian television were to say that President Brown was involved in financial scandals, bribery and something like that. Or something like that Slovenian television could write about Angela Merkel. I think we'd come here, not in one day, but in 24 minutes, we'd have MI6 agents here, and GNI, who'd pull those who dare to leave such nonsense. And I think it's high time we cleared this up. Looks like when someone said we should play it all in Finnish, so the Finns know what's gonna happen here. I think the Finns already know and that they knew before the entire Slovenian public, as it appears. For according to that show, all things were determined, and only the result failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. In our parliamentary group, we will not support the proposal of the three opposition parliamentary groups. I think it is right that all the circumstances are explained at a public meeting, because on public television, foreign public television has made statements by the political representatives of the Slovenian state, that is, a true Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Cvikl, as well as the President of an independent state institution, who is concerned about a certain part of the fight against organised crime and corruption. The proposal, which was submitted, means that this debate is withdrawn and still leaves room for manipulation, interpretation, for such or other interpretations. I think it's high time we did these interpretations at this meeting of the National Assembly. If anyone has any documents and there has been statements that some have some documents, they should be submitted to Members and they will be reviewed here in the course of this meeting. It is a pity, however, that the Commission of Inquiry, led by the new member of the Social Democrats, Mr Squeakl, has not done its work. However, it has not done so - not because of any opposition from coalition Members or anyone. It was not done because the work or management of this commission was such that some Members failed and stepped down from the commission of inquiry, some announced that they would leave. In the end, it turned out that the President of the Commission of Inquiry was deeply involved in this story in a personal, business, political and, ultimately, proposal for his hearing before this committee was nothing unusual. In short, we want this debate on these slanders, on these insults, on these allegations, on these suspicions to be done today, and on the electoral campaign, because it's in the middle of an electoral campaign. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The campaigns, returning to the right stream, are said to be debated on the content of the programmes, on the candidates, on the efforts for the next term and not to warm up some stories that have been produced and arranged on the basis of, I don't know, maybe even false documents. [[...]] Unfortunately, because such a successful policy as is predicted to have failed in this mandate, it is one of the few that has failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Erjavec, on behalf of the Government. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all Members and Members, including the public. I must explain that on the Ministry of Defence's websites are published all the articles of the contract on the purchase of armoured personnel, which was authorised by the public information officer by a decision to publish them. Let me also say that the contract and all the documentation concerning armoured personnel have also been seen by members of the Defence Committee, so that this documentation is not true. An anti-corruption clause has also been published, so everyone can see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u17	Thank you. So we are going to vote on a procedural proposal to stop the point and get all the possible or all the materials that are listed and can be obtained. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We continue on the 1st item of the agenda. The draft conclusions were tabled by a group of Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. I give the floor to Mr Zvonk Černač's representative of the proposal for a further presentation of the draft conclusions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u18	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, ministerial assembly, all others present. Last week, "The Truth About Patria", broadcast by Finnish television, and in record time after it, some of our media, happened a huge bang. The Finnish journalist concluded the show with the words: "J is Janez Janša, president of the Slovenian government. In the first half of 2008, he was President of the Council of the European Union. Patria, who owns the state, bribed the President of the Slovenian Government." End of quote. The background of this text was a picture showing the President of the Government when he is serving with the Presidents of the governments of the European Union. The claim was not supported by any evidence, scenarios, the choice of interlocutors - four Slovenian citizens, all of whom are related in any way to the unelected provider of armoured systems technology or Viator&Vektor - two of them also candidates in this year's national elections, Mr. Potočnik at the LDS, Mr. Zvikl at the Social Democrats, and in particular the participation of the journalist Blaž Zgaga and Draga Kos, who said about 24h 21.11.2007, I quote: "In about half a year, I think it will also be very clear where this nervousness will be seen by representatives of one political party in particular and from where this great desire to resolve the current chairman of the commission." End of quote. All this, ladies and gentlemen, shows that this script was written in Slovenia. By publishing on Finnish television, the real screenwriters wanted to give him more weight or credibility, as the manoeuvre with the press petition before the time and the robbery defamation a year ago, where the target was also the Prime Minister Janez Janša, failed best. In a few minutes, the two-year work of the three thousand who participated in the preparation of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union helped to strengthen its reputation in Europe and the world. It was enough lies spoken at the right time and in the right connection. It is sad that Slovenian citizens took part in this mucking; even more so, those who should take care of the reputation of our country by their actions. This, as I mentioned, did not happen for the first time. Remember the press petition a few months before the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union by the same author Blaž Zgaga, who directly accused the Prime Minister of the Government of the Limitation of Media Freedom and concluded with the call: "What will it be like to communicate to the citizens of the European Union if it is chaired by a country where pressure on journalists is increasingly self-sustaining and in which the authoritarian way of ruling is strengthened at the expense of media freedom? The Presidency of such a country may be a worrying sign for the present and even more for the future of the European Union." End of quote. The conclusion of the Finnish press release has about the same message. The European Union was chaired by a country headed by the President who received the bribe. Let us also remember the slanders of Robb a good year ago, when the Prime Minister of the Government accused high treason, saying that before the 2004 elections, Croatian President Sanader was to negotiate incidents in the Gulf of Tržaška. Good year was a major part of the LDS opposition, SD, really hiding behind the secrecy of the documents. Finally, on the basis of evidence, it was found that there was no agreement. Yesterday, on the Defence Committee, some were unwilling to admit it as if their hatred had clouded their eyes and blocked their ears. All of these stories have the same target - an attack on the Prime Minister, who has been hanging such and different weapons stories since his independence. Nothing has been found in all the commissions and investigations so far. Nothing! Except for repeated mud. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The candidates for the extraordinary meeting, the SDS, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, we hoped that the opposition would act in a state-of-the-art, wise manner in this case, given the absurdity of the charges. Those who have many references to the presumption of innocence have acted in a completely different way when it comes to international proportions. More. After the matter got messy, as the public understood what it was, they began to turn the story from the point of view. Now the charge is that the Finnish state-owned company has bribed the Prime Minister of the Government already in the background. Now things are about questions that have nothing to do with this accusation. The erroneous statements made by Minister Erjavac in some media are enough for a leader of one of the political parties who, while declaring himself a new policy, to suspect corruption is justified. Suddenly, the legal accuracy of the anti-corruption clause becomes a problem and so on. Yesterday's debate on the Defence Committee is a great disappointment, not only that the opposition, with one exception, is unable to overcome its narrow party interests and put the country's interests first. Yesterday we listened to the same stories we've heard so many times. To this day, they had only been accused of pressure on the media by the government. And see, pressure is supposed to require the publication of false information in accordance with media law. And the allegations of the abuse of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for client purposes, and this because of the notes sent, which in such a case is not only customary but necessary practice. None of the opposition could be heard in these days saying: "We are opponents of the Prime Minister and his policy, but in this case it is absurd, with nothing to be accused. Therefore, the policy must come together in this case and protect the reputation of Slovenia. We expect an investigation to be carried out and the results are familiar to the National Assembly. Until then, this story has been concluded for us, and the President of the Government is innocent." This has not been heard in the past days and, unfortunately, it will not be heard today. This, in my view, would be done by a responsible opposition. This would be done by politicians who respect a country that respects the rule of law. Such behaviour from the majority of the current opposition cannot be expected in this mandate. Moreover, last week before the echoes, Mr. Školč asked me if I had brought with me any evidence. Are we really so far away, ladies and gentlemen, that the innocent will have to prove their innocence? Are these the foretold changes? Is that a new policy? The President of the State, Dr. Danilo Türk, is right. The legal state is on trial and politics is on trial. Will the opposition, in particular the LDS, SD and Suress, nevertheless manage at least part of the country's viability, end this story with today's session and allow people to decide within 10 days on the basis of the weighting of the programmes rather than on the basis of a premeditated, carefully chosen moment of the story being thrown out? Your Honor! The decision to purchase eight-wheelers was taken. 11. 2001 in the National Assembly chaired by Borut Pahor. The general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces was then adopted. Slovenia has been part of NATO for some time now. The level of its safety has never been as high as it is today, yet we are all aware that we need and need appropriate equipment. In the mandates of past governments, we have witnessed numerous purchases of weapons that have been made without invitation, without the care of a good master, and many times other objectives have been pursued, not the quality of our weapons and the utility of our weapons for our needs. This is in detail the report of the Commission of Inquiry, which I have led in this mandate. The overly expensive modernisation of tanks, which have been preserved for several years, completely inappropriate Israeli hoodies and so on. And then: armored vehicles 6x6, supplier Systemic technique, selected without a call. The purchase of 36 vehicles worth over 8 billion Slovenian tolars took place in early 2003 in record 40 days from the moment the invitation was sent to the signed contract. At that time, the System Technology was still in state ownership, and a few months after the signing of this contract, the government of Rop sold it to Viator&Vektor, owned by Zdenko Pavček, a prominent member of the LDS. It sold a third share to Austria's Steyr for a higher price than the total purchase value and in exchange for a license of 8 x 8. On the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Pavček acknowledged that already an integral part of the contract with the Government of Rob was a clause on the further conditions for the participation of the System Technology in Austrian Steyr and on the acquisition of a licence for 8 x 8. And how did the story go on? At the request of the then Prime Minister, the 2001 equipment programme was replaced by a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 13 July 2004; it provides the basis for the acquisition of eight-wheelers. And a good month later, 20.8.2004, followed by a letter of intent between MORS and Viator&Vector for the supply of eight-wheeled cops 2 or rag. On the basis of the letter of intent, however, the resolution of 13 July 2004 was cited and it is very clear that this letter of intent will provide eight-wheelers with the name I previously stated. The letter of intent, "letter of intent", was written in English; apparently, Steyr requested a guarantee for business. Then, horror, the LDS loses power. MOR, under the leadership of Minister Erjavac, publishes an international tender, sends a tender to the fifth, receives two offers and selects the most favourable bidder, which has been the most favourable under all criteria. At the price, it was 12 to 18% lower in individual elements than in rags, in anti-produced, in product quality and so on. But by choice, the reptiles shrink. First of all, the protests of employees in Systemic Technicians in Ljubljana, many meetings of the Defence Committee, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject in early 2007 and the finals, the establishment of an investigative committee which unfortunately did not do its job because of the unfortunate election of the President. This is a great shame and we reject all the harsh allegations that this situation has been blamed by those who have requested a hearing from Mr President. In this part, therefore, in the process of selecting eight-wheelers, the Ministry of Defence, Minister Erjavac, his associates cannot be accounted for. The bidder has been chosen on the basis of a transparent public order and despite the numerous dissections of this procedure so far no one has found the opposite, no one! And in this light, it is also considered to be a statement which, I think, has repeatedly, and again yesterday, distorted and troubled, the President of the SDS Council, Mr Grims, at a meeting of the Council on 17 June 2006. Yesterday it was said that our client had discussed this business before the tenderer was elected. I have before me a note from the STA, 12.6.2006: "The Ministry of Defence has chosen the company Rotis, representing the Finnish company Patria, on the invitation to supply infantry combat vehicles, armored 8x8 for the Slovenian Army." And the negotiations began. And the other note from the ST, 17.6. The Council also discussed the purchase of armoured personnel and requests for the resignation of Defence Minister Karl Erjavac. In the light of the events I mentioned earlier, the protests, the concerns about jobs and the events involved. In Patria, however, there were other stories that were being investigated. But this investigation has nothing to do with the charges we have witnessed in recent days. It is in the interest of everyone to complete the investigation and to complete it as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago, I saw an article about truffles. The author writes that they promote sexual strength and continue, "this is not proven with anything but rejected." Of course, such a note cannot do any harm except perhaps for some disappointed lady. However, when it comes to the accusations made by the President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, and in the way the case was presented, our countries of Slovenia in the international public are no longer ridiculous. It is difficult to expect this from most of the current opposition, but in this case, in our view, the interests of the state should be placed before the narrow political interests and today in the National Assembly are united in two. First time. In the event of an accusation by the President of the Government, it is absurd to have any of the charges made. It is therefore necessary to protect the reputation of Slovenia. We expect an investigation to be carried out and the results are familiar to the National Assembly. Until then, this story is over for us. And a second time. The investigation, which is under way as to the suspicion that Patria paid the fees, is to investigate all suspicions and backgrounds concerning the work of Patria and, once it is concluded, to inform the National Assembly. As it is impossible to expect suspicions and accusations to be cleared within a week, the interests of the State, and in particular of citizens and citizens who are to decide on the basis of the weighting of the programmes, require this topic to be withdrawn from the electoral campaign. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed conclusions of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS Group are also coming together. I suggest you support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u19	Thank you. The draft conclusions to the report were considered by the Defence Committee as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Anton Anderlich, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u20	Respectable. For six hours there was a meeting of the Defence Committee, the discussion did not take place on the items listed in the title and which were then to be reflected in the draft conclusions. In fact, the proposal for decisions on the review of the decision, the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces with infantry combat vehicles 8x8, the handling of the implementation of the international public tender, and the examination of the evidence of suspected corruption in this case. In the introduction, several procedural proposals were made that certain materials should be obtained in order to be able to discuss this at all, since the decisions on this matter were not, at least those who were invited to the meeting, were able to take a look at this as the applicants wanted, so after a controversial debate it was concluded that the coalition would not be rejected - the majority rejected the proposal for a decision to obtain additional documentation and, hence, it corrected the coalition's failure in the third decision. It must have been said that there is a competitive clause in the third decision, but it is an anti-corruption clause and you also have this in the proposal of the completed conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u21	Thank you. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! A few days ago, news was launched into Slovenia and also into the European public, and it was very resounding. In Slovenia, it completely changed the course of events at some center of the electoral campaign. And today, the whole country, instead of discussing how it will be organised to live better in the future, is dealing with the accusation that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janša, has received bribes from the Finnish Patria that Walter Wolf gave him this bribe. And this was said in a broadcast that the journalist concluded with the words, "The evidence of this is in the Finnish state company, we know it exists, but we will not show it." If we consider all the other things that have happened in these days after this accusation was made, let me say again here clearly. In this mandate, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not decide on the procurement of eight-wheelers, and the Government has never discussed this topic. The decision to purchase these vehicles was taken twice in previous governments and in previous compositions of the National Assembly in the previous term. In this mandate, the Ministry of Defence carried out a procedure the main part of which was an international public tender. Earlier, Slovenia had purchased weapons on the basis of secret agreements, such as those with Israel, which were discussed in this Chamber 10 years ago, on the basis of secret public contracts. More! Even car stickers, identity cards, and passports were placed in these secret public contracts in the previous term. Minister Erjavec has decided on an international invitation to tender. There have been procedures called commissions, they have run for office on these calls, and procedures have been completed within the Ministry of Defence - after what I know so far - correctly. Before the minister signed the contract, he introduced me to it. I, too, at this meeting, and the Minister said it very specifically publicly, I did not influence it in any way or in any other way. In short, the procedure was carried out. The conclusion was as it was, and the contract was signed by the person responsible. On that charge, Mr. Walter Wolf was supposed to give me this bribe. I've never spoken to Mr Wolf, I've never met him, I don't know him, and I've never been in any direct contact with him through anyone. So this accusation is absurd, it's unrealistic, and I strongly reject it. I wonder whether it is correct for anyone, even if it is not the Prime Minister, to act in such a way as to say that we have solid evidence and we have seen them receive a bribe. We will not sign out this evidence, we will not publish it, or we will not publish it, they will probably come on a day in some court procedure that will begin next year. But the defendant is running for election in two weeks. Is that right? And anyone would do it for anyone, even if it were an MP or a saint in a municipal election! In recent days, there have also been a lot of hints about what will happen in public, what will be published and so on. Now, if there were any solid evidence or at least any indication of this evidence, it would probably be published. But if someone wants to speculate, then that's the way things work. I'm not ruling out the possibility of another expert showing up like 20 years ago when I was convicted before a military court because I was supposed to highlight a document with a green flomastrom. And the experts, who are still partly the same as they were then, said that there was undeniable evidence that that document was just me underlining with a green marker because I was using markers. This was the key material evidence 20 years ago. So if there's any similar evidence to be published, I'll say in advance that it has nothing to do with me. According to information obtained from Finland from various sources in recent days, the Finnish police at the state-owned company Patria seized a lot of documentation, including a variety of people's catalogues, including those who were representatives of Slovenia, in which they were doing market analysis and in which they speculated on various possible approaches to obtaining this deal. In these notes and papers there is a lot of abbreviations, probably also the letter "J" where, and this investigation has been going on for a long time just like in normal cases. Then, according to our data, this is partly confirmed in a report received by the competent authorities, a person from Slovenia came to explain what a shortcut means, what a name means, and how it should actually be read. And it was only then that the official bodies in Slovenia were also suspected, because in Finland it was said that Slovenia was a country with huge corruption problems, because everything was actually corrupt, where links were in the sense that the President of the Government was stopping the investigation, that the state prosecutor had been politicized because she had once run for office, and so on. And certain suspicions by those working on this in Finland began to emerge on this basis. They also probably added theirs to the standing appearance of the former President of the Commission of Inquiry, who, in fact, associated with his contacts with Finland every day and publicly boasted about it. Now, as this was all motivated, you probably don't have to explain. In this context, there is also a very interesting public statement by one of the leaders in Patria, who said that they are adapting to the market situation and that they have adapted to the situation on the Slovenian market when it comes to this business with Slovenia. It is necessary to know when Patricia was doing an analysis of the Slovenian market and the Slovenian situation. She did not work in 2006, she did not work in 2007, nor in 2008, says, during the time of this government's mandate, she worked in 2005, at the beginning. And if anything has been assessed in the sense that there is a business in Slovenia by bribing someone, it has not been assessed on the basis of the mandate of this government, because this assessment was carried out in 2005. So those of us who applauded this statement, if this is evidence of how Slovenia went along the path of corruption during the mandate of this government, to consider what the time dimension of this statement is. Of course, it is also necessary to ask what kind of company it is that is doing such analyses and such assessments, and perhaps it is also preparing plans to enter a market. This company is 70% state-owned in Finland, the other owners think it is a European arms company, and the Finnish government is directly responsible for this company. In this respect, the first note went to Finland when it stated in this broadcast that evidence of this accusation had been found or that it was located or that it had come from a Finnish state company. So it is perfectly normal for the Slovenian government to ask the owner where these evidence is. This is no pressure on media freedom or anything that could be interpreted in this direction. And the second note went because Slovenian newspapers had been filled with some quotations from Finnish officials in the last week that were supposed to make such and different statements. Some of these statements were later said never to have been made. A journal, a one-day newspaper in Slovenia, was published entitled that the Finnish government denies the political background. I have spoken with the President of the Finnish Government practically every day or several times a day. He told me, even after we translated it to him, that the Finnish government had never made a statement about it, etc. And the second note was sent to Finland because we protested that these statements were being manipulated. Because these statements were directly placed, true or false. It takes some time to clear up, because the difference between Finnish and Slovenian, and it is published in Slovenian, there in Finnish. In short, these statements were placed directly in the context of the pre-election campaign and a second note was sent to prevent Finnish officials from interfering directly with the election campaign in Slovenia. There is also a pre-election time in Finland where local elections will be held and this additional issue is somewhat complicated. After this broadcast was broadcast, I think the Slovenian opposition in one voice demanded that the treaty with Patrio be terminated. Minister Erjavec said he was ready to freeze - given that the conditions of the clause, which he said was also published today, the anti-corruption clause, could be judged by anyone; I hope that lawyers and not philosophers will judge it, and that a few answers should be received immediately. Some of these answers came from the Finnish side. Here is also my offer on behalf of the Slovenian Government. Those who feel that, on the basis of the anti-corruption clause, the contract must be terminated and are willing to accept the risk of international action and compensation, accept the guarantee for this action. I don't know if we understand each other. If this contract is terminated, without any suspicion being proven, the tenderer will, of course, sue and claim the damage. So if you think that corruption has been and you are firmly convinced of this, guarantee with your property for this damage that would have occurred. In this case, we call a government meeting, we break the contract, and no harm will be done to the taxpayers. Now you're pushing us into a position that has a position on both sides when you lose, whatever you do would be bad. So, if you are so sure of this evidence of yours and that you are right, give a guarantee with your personal property if there is a lawsuit that will not be made at the expense of taxpayers, and let us terminate the contract in one way or another. Otherwise, don't get involved with it because it's not about sholastics and it's not about philosophy, it's about the real thing. In recent days, we have wondered a lot about how it is possible for such a story to be launched into the political space of a country just before the elections, or in the middle of an electoral campaign to try to show up as if it had come from abroad. And then we realized that this wasn't the first time. Ten years ago, the Vič-Holmec affair broke out, in which Slovenian soldiers and police officers were accused of shooting Yugoslav army soldiers after they had already lifted a white flag on Holmac to kill two. And this statement or such interpretation of a video was published on Austrian television. The Vič-Holmec affair began with the release of this video and this suspicion on Austrian television. It cleared up, it turned out that Slovenian soldiers and police officers did not shoot prisoners of war. The Irrigation Assembly replaced the then Minister of Liberal Democracy for the Interior of Mr Bandlje. Slovenian soldiers and police officers were washed clean. However, those who left a very clear fingerprint on this affair did not respond, but progressed to another function. And before that, they left a very clear fingerprint on Depal village, where it was discovered that the documents had been falsified. And that they were urging the soldiers who were trying to get them to speak ill of the journalists, to record it, and that it would be used to remove the then defence minister. The person I am talking about is Mr Drago Kos. He left very clear fingerprints, all documented. What I'm saying isn't an accusation I'm making, and then I'm gonna say, "I have evidence, and I'm not gonna publish it." The evidence has already been fully published. And in some ways, we come to the point that there are repeated patterns from an old school. We've always been clear, the truth has come to the day, but those who have used these patterns have always gone to another function, or they've stayed hidden in the background, waiting for a new opportunity. And this will be repeated until one day or another, I hope that soon the Slovenian legal state will not clear up with this as well. This is fundamental not only for the rule of law but also for mental health in our country. As I said earlier, we have had many conversations with various speakers in Finland these days. Finnish journalists have just warned us, for example, that, years ago, former Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, who led an international group to look for solutions for Kosovo, was publicly accused in Moscow, Belgrade and some European media, that he received bribes for his proposal on Kosovo's controlled status. That's what all the European newspapers have written about. The first reaction of all was: with evidence per day. The whole of Finland stood up for Mr Ahtisaari with a single request: "With evidence per day or keep your mouth shut!" And after three days, when there was no evidence, because it was a fabricated accusation, no one else wrote about it, no one politicized it. Finland has experience with this. And we see how Finland acted and see how Slovenia acted in a similar case, or those who consider themselves messengers of truth in Slovenia. In a conversation for the Slovenian media, the journalist who said this structure in this Finnish show said that this show is not intended for Slovenia, that he does not even know that the elections are with us. You have to be a very good research journalist to come to Slovenia in August 2008 and you don't know there's an election there. You really need to have a strong research wire so you don't find out. He said that this was not meant for the Slovenian public, but for the Finnish public. Two days after this broadcast was published, I spoke to the Finnish Prime Minister, Mr Vanhannen, when he had just concluded the press conference. He said, "It was a lot of reporters, they asked everything they could. None asked me about this matter." Two days since the show was broadcast. Nobody in Finland cares about that. That was the hottest time these suspects were in custody. There's been a lot of talk about it, it's been cleared up. At that time, no such show was broadcast. In Finland, the story is more or less in the process, and some people have already come up with an opinion of what was going on there. This was reported, of course. Now it's not dark in there. It became a theme in Slovenia. Before the show was broadcast, she was commented on. Some were extremely capable of writing comments in half a minute, and they were already published before the show began to play. I also had several interviews and, thank God, also opportunities to explain this story to other Finnish media. As we said, we've been in contact with many, both electronically and on the phone. One of these distinguished Finnish journalists said to me, "I think there's something strange about this. If Slovenian television, any of which is less important, published information that Mr Matti Vanhannen, Prime Minister of Finland, received a bribe from Gorenje or from any other enterprise in part state ownership in Slovenia and this broadcast would be completed with the phrase 'we have proof, but we will not show them' and Finland would be two weeks before the elections, the whole of Finland would talk about Balkan Journalism in Slovenia, without exception, without division in politics, without division in the media, the answer would be completely uniform." He said, "I don't know what the background is, what's true and what's not true, but I saw reactions and that's the thing that fell into my eyes first. Those who say the difference is between Slovenia and Finland, there are many differences. I think that Slovenia is much better, but at some points, I don't think so. Two weeks ago, or three weeks ago, we were able to follow up on a visit by American presidential candidate Obama in Europe. He had a press conference together, I think to the French presidents. The first question of one of the European journalists was how he commented on one of the moves made by the current President of the United States, George Bush. The President-in-Office of the United States, Mr Obama, replied: "Excuse me, but abroad, I do not comment on the move made by the President of the United States, who is currently my president." I propose to Mr Cwickle and to the Potočnik and others on this Finnish show to take a look at the footage of this press conference. I propose the same thing to their client bosses. On September 21st, it is said, in just over ten days, there will be six free elections in Slovenia, the fifth in the National Assembly, the first in the Assembly. And at this moment, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we are in the middle of the country's most dirty election campaign. There's never been such a dirty election campaign. When this story appeared, it was the first reaction of the majority of the opposition: "It takes an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to clear things up." Mr. Skolcz made his first statement and repeated it. I've been listening to her on the radio all day on Tuesday. There's a meeting here now. There's a meeting here. I was surprised that, for example, the Members of the Social Democrats were not prepared to sign this request because they said you had not submitted, Mr Školč, because this indicates that they are aware that the arguments have been broken and that many are in the interest of drawing these charges on the media by September 21st, that nothing is made clear that there is talk, where smoke is also fire, that Mr Moze will be graduating again on his eternal subject, which he has represented in Parliament, from what we know. He ran the investigative boards, found nothing. Mr. Squeakle is his good successor, I must say as far as this is concerned. In short, the purpose was to politicise the matter, that it was a key topic that we would deal with until the elections were cleared up. Perhaps, or certainly, at some point in time, it is not possible to clear up. I can't prove I'm innocent here because I don't know what I'm accused of. I haven't seen a single trace of any evidence of that. Of course, it's possible to insinuate. However, what can be clarified and what this National Assembly is responsible for, are the suspicions that suddenly began to appear after it was clear that there is no evidence of this action that we will require them not to be able to give them, and once everything has turned against the authorities of this country investigating such crimes. And it started to make a big deal out of it. However, the National Assembly is competent to deal with these reports in order to make it known that it also has a supervisory function, and to clarify this, so that it will not be said that the delay to a question is a key issue in this story, since the Slovenian Interpol has replied too late. As far as I know, Finnish has not answered this question from Austria until today. So let us clear up these suspicions for which the National Assembly is competent and leave the rest to the competent authorities. That is how I conclude this introduction with a proposal and a call. We have ten days before the election. Any government after the elections will be very valuable to it if it sees, on the basis of a debate on the campaign, how the Slovenian electoral body breathes, where there can be any reform that most people consider to be such as to be a priority, how to deal with wage policy, pensions, taxes, regional development, how to deal with issues of key importance. In six months, no one in this country will talk about Patricia. Then again, it will be very important how we organised ourselves, what we pulled from this election campaign, what we have done to make everyone in Slovenia live better. My proposal and my call is, let's get this subject over with. I'm willing to open up at any time, take full responsibility if there's any evidence of these absurd accusations. They promise him every day. Every day, I listen to what happens. Until then, let us do this country a favor and remove this matter from the pre-election debates. Let's not just be pre-electional about this, not because of me, I'm willing to answer any questions, but because of two million people who deserve better. They do not deserve that the whole of Slovenia is discussing some absurd accusation that has not been proved with anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u23	Thank you. I give the word to Mr. Erjavac to continue. We have 33 minutes for the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u24	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers, President of the Government! I must say, the project of purchasing medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 is the most transparent business so far. I say this responsibly because I have been the target of reading what is wrong for three years now, but in no case has it been established that anything would have been wrong. The judicial authorities also took part in these proceedings. Lately, it is said that when the Truth About Patria was announced, even reports of corruption and bribery began. I must say that, as Minister of Defence and together with the Ministry of Defence, we have provided these materials to all the authorities who wanted information, clarifications and regulations. So it's not true that we're hiding anything. However, it is necessary to know that there are also certain levels of confidentiality in these transactions and that every healthy farmer is clear about this, except for some of us who do not want to understand it. The basis for the purchase of armoured personnel was the 2004 resolution, that is to say the previous call of the National Assembly and the previous government has decided that 135 armoured persons 8x8 are needed. This conclusion, this decision did not come from the sky. This conclusion, this decision is due to Slovenia's entry into NATO. Some say that is not true, but I must say that the backbone of the equipment of the Slovenian army is represented by armored 8x8. On these armors 8x8 we build the Slovenian army; on these armored 8x8 we build security for the soldiers we send to the missions in accordance with international obligations. In addition to the resolution, the medium-term defence programme is 2005-2010 and the new 2007-2012. Dear Members and Members! A word or two about the procedure itself is the award of a confidential order. As I said in the introduction, this is the most transparent business ever. The project plan was developed by the General Staff, the project concept was approved by the General Staff, and a notice was issued on 15 December 2005 of the intention to carry out the award of a confidential contract, which was sent to eight tenderers, which is to say the eight best manufacturers in the 8x8. This is to make it really transparent to get the best vehicles, for the best price and most importantly, the safest vehicles for our soldiers. The invitation to tender was received by five companies: Iveco, Giat, Rotis, Rheinmetall and Viator&Vector. Two offers have arrived and Rotis d.o.o. system technique and Rotis d.o.o. [[..]] In order to avoid any perception of the transparency of the armory order, we wanted to obtain as many offers as possible. That's why we also wrote to General Dynamics on our invitation, which is an American company that replied to us that it would participate in this invitation with the offer of Systemics with a Pandur 8x8, not Motsky and Steyr. Mawk also replied, once again, that the System Technology will be involved in the invitation to tender and that this is their business policy. It's an American company that owns Steyr. We know that a rag is a license to drive a cop that is supposed to be made by Steyr. So much for the domestic industry. There are also constant signs that Rotis is acting as an agent. Let me say that the companies themselves have decided to cooperate through their representatives in the award of the contract. And this applies to both the System Technology and Rotis. And if you would change that for me, those of you who know the law on public procurement would know that this would violate this law. Anyone can apply for an invitation. This is also in line with the constitutional norm on a free enterprise initiative. I wouldn't talk too much about the conclusion of the contract myself. You know that it was concluded on 19 December 2006 with a total value of EUR 278 million. In doing so, I must say that the purchase of vehicles with all configurations alone amounts to EUR 258 million or slightly less than EUR 62 billion, which is still less than the funds available. There were 63 billion available. It is true, however, that in the context of this call for proposals we also purchased the so-called electronic and communication equipment, which cost 19.5 million euros. These funds were also provided for in the medium-term defence programme. Why did we make that decision? Because the experience with the wave has shown us that this electronic communication equipment should be installed when the vehicle is made. In the case of the waves, this was done later, and you can imagine how funny it was when the holes were drilling after the vehicle was finished, they pulled the cables and so on. We had a lot of problems. I also have to say about the waves 6 x 6 that they also have a system error on the brakes, so about the quality of the vehicle that was not in the offer at all, 8 x 8, I have to say that when the invitation was opened, the system technique did not have a vehicle 8 x 8 and were tested with a cop vehicle from Austria. Dear Members and Members! I tell you that I have signed the contract in accordance with the rules of the procedure for the award of a confidential order and the powers based on legal, development and implementation documents ensuring the further development of the Slovenian Army. The Treaty does not derogate from the adopted procurement and implementation framework of the project of medium wheeled armoured vehicles, battle vehicles 8 x 8 as the priority and key weapon system for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In no way was the state budget damaged, or the contract was not harmful, but a significant benefit for the Slovenian economy will be realized through the implementation of the project. We know that there's a factory in Chestnut where these armored men are made. You know what the debate was like, that these factories wouldn't be, that they wouldn't be assembled there, that they weren't made up there, and that's what we were listening to. But time proves otherwise. I must say, however, that the unelected bidder, Systemic Technology, has initiated a series of procedures. Thus, the unelected tenderer - Systemic technique before the competent court has brought an action against the Ministry for the annulment of the contract and issued a provisional order to suspend the proceedings. The Court also rejected the issue of the provisional order at the appeal stage, which means that there is no reason for this proceeding to be terminated. This has been confirmed by the judicial branch of power. Let me also say that the proceedings before the Administrative Court have also been initiated in connection with this procedure, in which the Court dismissed the action of an unelected tenderer because it is not a matter for which the Administrative Court would have ruled. But what's interesting is the next lawsuit. There is also a lawsuit by an unelected tenderer, Systemic Technologies, suing the Ministry of Reimbursement of €5.6 million as a damage to it due to an unrealised 2004 letter of intent signed by Viator&Vector with a representative of the Ministry of Defence. As evidence of the System Technology, it also substantiates its claim by contract of sale and purchase of 80% of the business share of the System Technology. It is clear from this action that the Systemic Technology sought to obtain this business without a call for tender on the basis of a letter of intent. And now he's suing the Ministry of Defence for the non-fulfilment of this letter of intent. That's really interesting. And that is also the reason for all these attacks on me because I did not realize the letter of intent. And I have repeatedly said this, and also the President of the Viator&Vector has been able to tell me this and even to predict the serious difficulties in the continuation of my term of office. The Slovenian public could monitor the problems I faced and still face somehow. Dear Members and Members! Something about corruption and bribery. The Ministry, the Minister, none of the employees of the Ministry and the Slovenian Army have so far been invited to any interview or request information regarding the reported corruption and bribery of the 8x8 bike project. Let me say that no authority has been legally able to identify corruption or bribery. So I don't know why there is such a debate when there is no procedure to prove such an act when there is no evidence. I would really like to ask, I don't know why a Finnish journalist is protecting the source, but we can find out from the "The Truth About Patricia" series that this is Patrie's document. I don't know why he's protecting Patricia if it's the source of Patricia. See why he doesn't publish this document. It's simple. And that story would be over right away. I don't understand why he won't bring this document, why he won't publish it. Who's he protecting? Patrio. But I must say that I am pleased with the letters of Patrie, where they say there is no document that contains such content as the "Truth about Patria" series. No I.D. with a J, a dot. Now I don't know what that means anymore. Some say Janša, another Yelinčič, even Yelen, our Member. This is going to be very interesting what that letter J means. Despite developments in recent weeks, I stress that buying medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 is planned, transparent and properly guided. Appropriate insurance is also provided if the suspicion of corruption or bribery within the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces is established or proved. In this case, as I have repeatedly assured, I will be the first to demand the termination of the contract. But so far, despite this enormous debate, no one has ever provided me with a document to prove that such acts have occurred. Therefore, there is no reason for me to enforce the anti-corruption clause. Of course, I agree with the President of the Government, if someone really believes that there was corruption, bribery in this business, it would actually be wise for those who so convincingly believe that it is a guarantee that they come to me and we will do so. Viator&Vector, who is constantly attacking, how harmful this contract is, I think he has enough assets because he was successfully turned from social property, I don't know what assets. That's what other people know. Thank you. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u25	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Mate, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Also by the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, I would like to share with you some of the facts that have taken place in connection with this investigation and with the accusations that occurred in the "Truth about Patria" broadcast. One claim, of course, is that the Slovenian police are not working and that the Minister of the Interior is obstructing investigations by order of the President, as has been said. These claims are extremely absurd and do not hold. You have all received an accurate report from both the Ministry and the Prosecutor's Office, which tells us what activities have been taking place. However, some things need to be said very clearly. The first activities carried out by the Finnish police, which were visible outside, took place on 13 May this year. The Slovenian police immediately, immediately, made contact with the Finnish investigative authorities on the same evening and requested further clarifications. This made it clear that the Finnish police started their operational work on this issue on 9 May this year and subsequently carried out the detention of two persons in Finland on 13 May. However, cooperation was further established with both the prosecution and the Finnish Investigation Office as well as with the police. It should be said, however, that in the follow-up to the cooperation we have found unequivocally from the letters and to the extent that I can speak here today and will not burden the operational part of the police and the forecasting procedure, that the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission of Slovenia, on his behalf and on behalf of the organisation that runs it at the European level, has been with Finnish investigators and has given them documents and has interpreted certain facts. Which facts, which documents, unfortunately, I can't explain. But there is something else to note. In Slovenia we have a law that speaks very clearly about the fact that persons who own, who are civil servants, state authorities, and this unequivocal anti-corruption commission is headed by its President, that they are obliged to notify law enforcement authorities and the police without delay regarding the suspicions of crimes. Mr. Kos didn't do it. More. We invited him when we received this information, in writing, to deliver these documents to us and to give them to us immediately. The letter, which then lay there for three days, found out what to write, and the answer was that they had a larger amount of material, that if we wanted to come to a photocopy, we could look at it and write it as if we were some voluntary society that would read something there. The police are the authority that seizes the documents. And because he didn't give us those documents, the police seized them in further proceedings and didn't come to list them to any other state authority. Only in this way can the original documents police operate and operate. More. In this letter, Mr Kos, who personally signed this document, did not give it to one of his officials to sign so that he could hide, wrote very clearly: "We both inform you that the bribery by the employees of Patria, which is being investigated by the Finnish security authorities and mentioned in your letter, has not been dealt with by the Commission." On this basis, I have already answered the question raised by the Parliament and will now reiterate that the State authorities or the Head of the State Authority, which owns the documents and does not hand them over to the law enforcement authorities in due time, have committed a crime. This has resulted in Mr Kos saying, perhaps also in Finland, that the Minister of the Interior is exerting pressure on him and threatening him. I'm not threatening him. If I speak on behalf of the law and in accordance with the articles of the law, I do not threaten. I speak only the facts and duties that individuals have in this regard. The Slovenian police, together with the prosecution, have set up a joint investigation group with the Finns, which has started its work according to the rules in force in such labour groups. Of course, it should also be said that the State Attorney's Office is repeatedly with several letters, with three exactly, 19.6., 24. 6. and 2. 7. Requested the President of the Parliamentary Commission of the National Assembly, Mr Milan M. Cwickl, to deliver all the documentation they possess. Only after the third letter is this documentation 17. 7. came and was 18. 7th day for operational processing by the police, on which activities can then be carried out. It's material. It's about 20 files. The following should be said that there have been many operational meetings with Austrian investigators on the Slovenian proposal. The Slovenian proposal also includes an Austrian criminal group and a number of meetings of an operational nature. Operational documents were exchanged, both with Austrian investigators and in part with Finnish investigators. In Slovenia we carried out activities at the Court of Auditors and received them at the end of 18. 8. an electronic message indicating 26 persons to be questioned because they are suspects without any evidence. Let's be very clear about this message. Today, it is already appearing in the media, including in Finland, that the Slovenian police have put the investigation at risk and that they are talking about some documents that have been sent operationally. I don't have names, I haven't seen them, and I don't know what names are on that list. But I do know that the document came back, then and then, and that there's a list of people on it without any indication of evidence. Therefore, the prosecution and the police have asked the Finns to submit, in accordance with our legislation, all the necessary evidence to enable all the necessary measures to be carried out. However, to be very clear, on August 2nd of this year we were able to read in one of the Slovenian journals called Dnevnik, an article that says [[Quote]] : "Yesterday for Dnevnik he refused to comment on the statement that Finnish investigators sent a list of persons suspected of receiving bribes in the Patrio business days ago to Slovenian colleagues." The journalist published it exactly 16 days before the Slovenian police received a letter from the Finnish side. That's the least interesting thing if not something else. Now with all these activities, at least I get this feeling, trying to create an atmosphere where the law enforcement authorities in Finland and Slovenia could no longer participate. Clearly, it is in someone’s interest that things calm down, that things do not continue and that things do not go to the bottom. This began immediately after I made a public statement at some meeting, when SD Member Ptrč told me that he believed the Finnish police and not in Slovenia and that they would do all the investigative work and that they would finish the case. I gave him a very clear answer. Firstly, only Slovenian police, the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office, can carry out investigations on Slovenian territory, and no one from Finland can carry out any investigations here. These are the laws of both our country and Finland. And secondly, we're really gonna get to the bottom of this. We'll get to the bottom of it if someone's been receiving bribes and punishing him for it, and we'll get to the bottom of those people who have been deceiving and giving false information to make such accusations. And no one can stop it, not this government, not the next government. That's what three police are doing. After I made this statement, this media dispute began about who was responsible and where they were escaping and how the documents were. The main observation now received by the police, which is why internal investigations are being conducted in the Slovenian police, is that the Slovenian police did not respond in time to Interpol's dispatch from Vienna, by asking for clarification or by stating the suspicion of money laundering and potential other crimes. If we look at the chronology of the reply to this dispatch, we can find that on 4 March, the first response was sent by Liechtenstein, that on 5 March was an addition to the Austrian Interpol, and that the next reply was sent to this effect, that on 4 April, a reply was sent from Canada and that on 16 June last year we received a re-examination or an appointment for the transmission of the data relating to the letter sent at that time. This notice was sent to three Interpols: Finland, Slovenia and Bangkok. I counted it in order, as the Austrians put it in their head. According to known data, two Interpols have not responded, Finland and Bangkok have still not answered this question of the Austrian Interpol. By the way, the Austrian Interpol has made this request for prosecution of a criminal offence in Austria, not in Finland and only with the assistance of other Interpols and data may continue investigations in Austria and, of course, lead to the conclusion of this investigation. I would, of course, like to say that the internal investigation, which has already been initiated, has clearly demonstrated a number of matters. The Director-General informed me orally today just before the meeting, which he has been informed so far on this matter. I hope that they will conclude this today and that the public will also be thoroughly informed of all the details, but at this point I can say very clearly that the case related to the dispatch that came from Vienna was, of course, transmitted in a normal manner, by Interpol's protected post office, that the head of the department ordered this post from one of Interpol's officials and immediately in a very short time transferred this task to another Interpol official, if she fails to do this work and that he is more qualified. All other dispatches were addressed or stored with this official. More. The whole file was neatly arranged, folded, but nothing happened, and he didn't do anything. There are, of course, many questions about what and how this could have happened. First, there may have been a serious negligence on the part of one individual official, and the other is that it was a plot. On which of these two things will be addressed, the surveillance report will not be able to respond, so an internal safeguard measure will be introduced, where the services which are specifically mandated will take internal measures to clearly and accurately determine whether it is a matter of gross negligence, ignorance, incompetence or fraud. Of course, the Slovenian public will be informed in detail about this. However, there is something else I would like to add to the recommendation. Yesterday we received information from the Ministry of the Interior and it was dismissed to the police for further consideration that Andrej Plaussteiner had some contact with Drago Kos or vice versa last year, Mr Drago Kos called him and asked him about the cash flows from Liechtenstein and Austria and the potential suspicions of corruption. Very interestingly, there was no dispatch in the police system, but someone else had some specific information about what amounts should be pointed out. And that the irony would be even greater if the Anti-Money Office wanted to check abroad or with us any transaction of any kind, it needed reasonable suspicion of a crime and a written proposal. What is known so far has not been such a proposal and it is obvious that someone or perhaps Mr Plaussteiner himself has made a call and obtained information on his own hand for a friend. The answers from Liechtenstein are supposed to be such that they cannot respond to this if the crime is not justified. So quickly we can get to a point where we can seriously doubt that it was just and only for the negligence of one official who received this assignment after being reassigned to him, from one official came upon him. I think that the investigation will show very precisely who did it, why it did it, and I can say very responsibly that the investigation will end when all the circumstances and all the irregularities that have occurred in the proceedings and against all persons, regardless of their name and surname, client affiliation or friendship, are clarified, so that we can end up with such a practice that we have witnessed in recent years when we accuse someone of having affairs, and then the courts, after a long period of time, prove that this is not the case and that this is not the case. Once again, I can claim with all responsibility that the police will do everything to find out or those who have received bribes and committed this crime, or those who have made other mistakes will give the wrong information, give the wrong information for the situation in which we are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u27	Thank you. The government has three and a half minutes left. Anyone else want a word from the ministers? Here you are, Mr. Rupel, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u28	President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Something to do with the notes sent by our ministry on 3 and 5 September. I would like to point out that, at the meeting on 17 December 1999, the National Assembly adopted a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the priority objectives of our country's foreign policy are to consolidate the international position and reputation of our country. The democratically elected Prime Minister of the Government is not a private one, but he is the leader of the government, the executive branch of the government. It also has a special position under international law. His statements, as is known, can oblige the country at international level. The response to the serious accusations that have been the subject of the debate so far, of Finnish national television against the Slovenian Prime Minister of the Government, was therefore necessary. The silence could also be interpreted as accepting charges. As is known, countries express their views on the diplomatic path. But the most common way is diplomatic notes. And that's what happened. With these two notes, September 3rd and 5th, Slovenia did not intervene in any way in the freedom and independence of the media, as was possible in some comments. Respect for media freedom and independence is explicitly highlighted in both notes, in the text. The Finnish journalist stated that the evidence is located in the Finnish company Patria. Since it is a state-owned company, the Finnish Government has the opportunity to verify that there is indeed evidence in this company of claims published on Finnish national television. So in our notes, we expressed our expectation that we would get this evidence. Finally, I should also say that there were also statements by Finnish state officials in the media, which I could even mention by name, about the course of the Slovenian forecasting process. It was the statements made by officials of the Finnish State, not private ones, who told the Slovenian media that the case of Patrie Slovenije was a case of international corruption. So much for explaining and adding to the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u29	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, Janez Janša is leaving. Obviously, you do not want to listen to today's debate and to present the views of the groups. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government. In fact, we do not support the politicised and pre-eminent debate in Parliament during the investigation process proposed by the ruling coalition. It is clear that we do not have any documents to help politicians to clarify this problem today and here. It is true, however, that new issues, uncertainties, incomprehensible events and data, and statements, and changes in attitudes, are repeated each day. Today's session was obviously at least until now just a pre-election spectacle to respond to Finnish television and to wash Mr Janez Janša's good name. Perhaps some would be most pleased, given that we are in Parliament if we passed a law on the protection of work and the character of Mr Janez Janša. But it's much more serious. Let me mention a few things that bother us. The Slovenian Interpol did not respond to the call for cooperation from the Austrian Interpol almost a year and a half after the notification and dispatch. That was also admitted by Minister Mate. However, as he claims, it would be a conspiracy or disloyalty of an official who, while faithfully lying to the documents, kept them as irrelevant. That's impossible, that's amazing. I would like to say that the Slovenian Interpol is professional enough and respectable enough that this could not have happened without external intervention and guidance, as it cannot be decided by one person in the Slovenian Interpol. Minister Mate also says it didn't hurt any further investigation. How can he be so sure of this, since, on the basis of this document, Finnish investigators have been conducting criminal proceedings for a year? Mr. Minister Mate, we find your conspiracy theory that you've explained today difficult to believe. Can we talk about the active and engaged role of Slovenian investigators and police if it is known, as stated by Minister Erjavec, that by 2 September 2008 no discussion, questioning, investigation, obtaining documents or anything from his ministry has yet been conducted. And there are all the key actors, negotiators, contracting contractors, bidders. Despite the fact that the Anti-Corruption Commission had already given the police a basic opinion and all the documentation in May 2008. This opinion states that the official persons involved in the acquisition of patries acted contrary to the equality of tenderers, allowing for an unjustified benefit for individuals and meeting the definition of corruption. How can such an official document, which has not been challenged by any legal basis, continue to be argued by the Attorney General, Mrs Brezigar and the police, that they did not have the right indicators to initiate investigations and they simply expect and wait for them to come from Finland. There are also various statements and various corrections and clarifications as to whether Mr Janez Janša was aware of the basic information on the Treaty. At the press conference on September 2nd, he claimed, quote: "I did not get involved in these proceedings because it was not a decision on my part or on the government side, and I was not aware of it either." I emphasize "I haven't been introduced." Yesterday, however, Minister Erjavec made it clear on the Defence Committee that Mr Janez Janša took note of the content of the treaty and also of the overstatement of the allowed sum of nineteen wholes and several million euros. I'm asking you who's lying. Of course, to all of us who are a little more familiar with Patrie's work, it is still unclear why an intermediary of Rotis, led by Mr Črnkovic, who was already a close associate of Janez Janša at the Ministry of Defence, was needed in this business. Why did we learn much, much later about many other intermediaries and, apparently, also the recipients of commissions such as Mr Riedl, Mr Wolf, Mr Cekuta? Maybe they're not all there yet, and there's another one coming up. Did you, Minister Erjavec, who is so very confident in the transparency and purity of business, know at the time of the signing of the treaty for these merchants, about these brokers with guns? Did Patricia tell you that she made contracts with them? Last but not least, were these businesses, in which not only commissions but also bribes, subject to anticorruption clauses? We're sure you don't. Does this contract, which I have here and which has been shown on Finnish television, where the ministry is signed as a contracting authority as a debtor of Patria and a supplier of Rotis, or does this contract also have an anti-corruption clause and what is its text? Let me be allowed, because today some names have been mentioned to be involved in this conspiracy, but perhaps some other names that we find in the case of the work of Patrie have been closely associated for many years, with the political and working companions of Mr Janez Janša and actively involved in investigations and business. Let me mention Mrs Barbaro Brezigar, High Prosecutor, Minister Matei, Chief of Police Jožet Romska, Director of Rotis Črnkovic, Supervisor in Gorenje Jožet Zagozna, Negotiator at the Ministry of Defence Dragan Bavčar, Bojan Pograjc, President of the Commission for the Conduct of Tenders. Are these the Slovenian patriots in Patrio's business? More than once in the past days, documents and evidence of bribery have been requested. There are a few things that are clear today. First time. That he went money for these purposes from Finland to the accounts of the above-mentioned persons, in Vienna Riedle, Wolf. That the transactions also continued to be accounted for in Liechtenstein, Thailand and Canada. Or even to Slovenia? We don't know that because we haven't studied this in over a year and a half, and I'm sure it's long gone. If they're not, then the job is not done by professionals. As we were told, there were no transactions in Slovenia through bank accounts, which is what the average reader of criminal novels would expect. How unusual that no one thought of perhaps cash transactions or other forms of bribery. Because they may be harder to detect. In these matters, dilettants, naive people and fools do not usually participate or work, but top-notch arms dealers and international financial knowers. The kind that only the top investigators will be able to get their hands on. In this regard, two statements are interesting. The outgoing director, Patrie Wiitacorpi, asked the explicit question whether Patria paid bribes, replied: "Our organization acted in accordance with the usual practice in the country." So he didn't deny giving bribes. The question is, what is common practice in our country? Judging by what many entrepreneurs, craftsmen and economists have told us in recent days, almost no business in Slovenia can be obtained at this time, not even the smallest public contract without bribes, without envelopes for those involved. Under the Government of Mr Janez Janša, who has come to power with the promise of fighting corruption, we are becoming one of the most corrupt countries in these letters. And this money gets a very narrow circle of people who are given it. This is our taxpayer's money, and these people are usually close to the authorities. And another unequivocal statement by the main Finnish investigator: "We know that the money went to Austria and we suspect that part of this money is committed to your official," I stress, "to official persons in Slovenia. That's why we're investigating it." Finnish prosecutor Rappe said, "If someone gives a bribe, there's someone on the other side who accepted it." Here you can see clearly how important the work of our Slovenian investigators and police would be in this regard. Unfortunately, we were able to read a statement on the Finnish investigators' website yesterday, namely the Finnish National Bureau of Investigation saying: "On Monday, Slovenian media accused Finland of non-participation because the Finnish police refused to provide more information about why they wanted to conduct information talks with the people on the list. Finnish officials hesitate to give more information because their colleagues in Slovenia cannot ensure that information does not come to the public." Next, I quote: "Final investigators have said that the lack of cooperation between countries has affected their work." This was pulled from the website last night. And still, there's some illogicality. There's a lot of them. We don't have enough time. Is it logical that Finland would explore corruption in its company, in Patria, in a company that is 70% state-owned, which is of exceptional economic importance for Finland, which has recently achieved major economic effects, since it has sold armoured and other equipment to many European countries, especially in many Eastern European countries. Is it reasonable and logical for Finnish investigators, Finnish police, Finnish television to publish this broadcast just because they would like to influence the Slovenian pre-election campaign? Is that possible? Is that logical? Is it a banana state, or is it a state that is constantly at the top of the world's fight against corruption, where, unfortunately, there are slightly different standards of democracy, different standards of government relations to the media and so on? And now for the conclusions. The National Assembly is expected to adopt the three conclusions you have proposed, namely, that in many there is great manipulation, language manipulation. The first decision was to find that the Ministry of Defence did the right thing when a call was made. Has anyone ever disputed that there was anything wrong with the invitation to tender, even though this was not an open invitation to tender, was it not public in the sense that it did not follow the rules applicable to the purchase of weapons? However, he wants to manipulate himself in some way, for this expression that he did the right thing should apply to the entire invitation to tender, and we all know that there is a great deal of dilemma, a great deal of openness, or that the invitation to tender has actually been made correctly and correctly. I have already mentioned the principled position and the opinion of the anti-corruption commission, which states another. In short, here we want to say that the invitation to tender is all right - far exceeds the dictatorship. Second, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expresses its support for the prosecution and the police to continue, in accordance with their powers and in cooperation with the international institutions, an intensive investigation into the suspicions of corruption, and so on, as they have done so far. We, in the Really Group, do not believe that we can support such a decision, because we are so far convinced that neither the police nor the State Prosecutor's Office have acted intensively in investigating these suspicions. And the third decision concerns the anti-corruption clause. In the event of the first confirmed suspicion of corruption, the National Assembly is to immediately use the anti-corruption clause and terminate the contract. In the Group of Members, we have indeed tabled an amendment requiring that the procedures for supplementing this Treaty be initiated immediately, namely Article 80, so-called anti-corruption clauses, and that this Article be amended. As it may seem, we have also written precisely enough in our amendment. We believe that the existing anti-corruption clause, which is in the contract - we do not know, we do not have a clear answer to how many contracts the Ministry of Defence has actually signed or only what we have seen, or what we are talking about, the contract between the Ministry of Defence and Rotis; we do not know what this contract is, which we could see in the Finnish television broadcast, where the other signatories, where the contracting ministry, Patria and the supplier Rotis, are, of course, not all the other contracts that Patria has concluded, are still. In short, we believe that this clause, which is now also publicly available after our intervention and the requirement that it is inaccuracies and inadequacies and that it does not cover all the problems and all the possible situations that we know so far and that we can read or hear about with regard to the Patria affair. We believe that the anti-corruption clause should cover all those involved in the business, including those who are not indisputably signatories to any official contract, where the Ministry of Defence is also a signatory. We are also spreading controversial acts in addition to corruption to any other illegal acts. We also enter into the contract clauses on actions and actions following a withdrawal from the contract. Here, Minister Erjavec, there is a great flaw in this contract, because there is nothing in your anti-corruption clause about how and what will happen at the possible withdrawal, how to deal with materials or with the patries that will already be delivered, how to deal with other damages. And, of course, the anti-corruption clause must also be introduced into the undisputed dictatorship, so that the treaty is terminated when suspicion is confirmed. The fact is, of course, that there are different legal opinions in Slovenia regarding this anti-corruption clause. But we think this is where the "more is better" principle applies. In our proposal, which we have written, we have taken into account and sought several days of solutions in the legal practice of other European countries which enter into their treaties. And we have introduced such dictions into our anti-corruption clause, you said that you are the author of this, we have collaborated with some other international experts and, of course, such an anti-corruption clause as we propose in the amendment, is also used in many European countries such as Denmark, Norway, Switzerland or Australia, for example, and so on. We believe that these are additional fuses and that this is a more precise definition, which will in fact protect the interests of the Slovenian State. We hope that you will accept this proposal. For if this clause is rejected, our serious doubts about the suspicion of non-transparent will only be confirmed once more. We see no reason not to, Minister Erjavec, make an effort in this direction. If all that is said by Patricia and what her directors have said to you, which are changing recently, is quite often, if all of this is true, then there can be no problem with such a dictatorship, which is known in the legal world of business within Europe, even to introduce. It is our opinion that by adopting this decision and by amending the anti-corruption clause, we may today make the only national action in this House, all that remains will be a debate on who will be stronger, who knows more, who knows less, who is to blame, who is not to blame, without any documents, as we have already said at the beginning. We wish that there might be at least one result of this meeting today and that this result would be a significant improvement in the anti-corruption clause and significantly more protection of the interests of the Slovenian state. We have also proposed a new 3a decision in the Group of Members, in which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dimitri Rupl to stop the abuse of the diplomacy of the Republic of Slovenia for personal and party purposes, to stop blackmailing the relations between the free media and the country in Finland and to refrain from any other acts that would exacerbate bilateral relations between the two Member States of the European Union. The National Assembly is also supposed to propose that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately withdraw the diplomatic notes with which it shames our country. In short, we believe that this decision should also be further adopted. And one more thing. Several times in the past days, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and others, particularly at the meetings of the College, have warned and demanded that the debate at today's meeting be balanced and that, however, we be given the opportunity to speak without restriction on such an important matter, if that is how you wanted representatives of the ruling coalition when you proposed this meeting. Our Group of Members is allocated only 35 minutes to the debate today, so it will be very difficult for us to participate properly and in depth in its course. The coalition and the proponents, if the bill didn't fail me, together it's 465 minutes, 7 1/2 hours. And you will see the relationship between the options that the opposition has and the options for the debate that it has taken and cut off, of course, will be said a little later that all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - coalition, government and today's motions. That is how you are in the Really - New Policy Group, we do not represent democracy. The right to speak in the previous term in Parliament has never been limited; it is now because we have another and a different president who limits this debate. Why, it is clear to us, for the business regulations are of great benefit to the ruling coalition. In the last term, the ruling coalition, if you remember when we had a series of extraordinary meetings, has always been given the opportunity to hold an open debate; such a debate has been allowed by the previous President of Parliament. That is why I would like to inform you that Members and Members of the Zares Group - We cannot and will not participate in any further debate and leave you, as my fellow Member, Mr Lahovnik, to the ring for further discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Assembly! In the DeSUS Group, we find that one of the key topics we dealt with in the entire mandate is the acquisition of 135 medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8 x 8 for the Slovenian Army. Today is already the second extraordinary meeting dedicated to this project. We support this meeting, because we believe that it is still necessary to stop such politicisation of the equipment of the Slovenian Army, the spread of non-truths and unproven illegalities and the continuous reading and talking about corruption, bribery and so on. Today’s session should also help. However, I am sure that we have devoted too much energy to this project in this mandate, which could otherwise be used more usefully in other areas. However, in order to reduce the activities in which more than obvious political objectives have been pursued, particularly at the start of the pre-election campaign, and regardless of the facts, evidence, documents and other justifications, our Group believes that the purchase of 135 medium-sized wheeled vehicles as the most important equipment and weapons for the key Slovenian Armed Forces units should be taken into account in particular: the purchase of 135 medium-sized wheeled vehicles as the most important equipment and weapons for the key Slovenian Armed Forces units, and as priorities in these years, is set out in the resolution on the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces adopted by Members in the previous mandate, and it is only a document to be implemented for us. We have also often discussed this in the Defence Committee, but it has always been the belief that this is a matter of the commitments made by the previous mandate in 2004 and of the need to be implemented. This has been taken into account in the adoption of budgets, the adoption of necessary legal solutions and other definitions. We believe, however, that no project carried out in this mandate has been considered as carefully and thoroughly in the home working body as it is for the purchase of bicycles 8x8. I must also say, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, that we have talked at more than fifteen meetings about bicycles and at several meetings only about bicycles. We have been presented with all the activities since the beginning of the project preparation and have been particularly familiar with the offers and the entire selection process of the contractor. All members of the Committee had the opportunity to review the entire offer and then the contract documentation. The fact is that no shortcomings or errors have been identified in all these proceedings. However, almost every article in any newspaper has also led to a debate on the committee, but it should be pointed out that, after an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which we discussed the entire project's course, the allegations of a selected tenderer's inadequacy, the neglect of the domestic arms industry, the failures to manage the project have been temporarily reduced and they have become even more intense and diversified over the past period. We are convinced that the purchase of 8x8 over the entire self-conservation period is transparent, open and taking into account the fundamental principles of competitiveness and the award of public contracts. We are also building such an assessment on the fact that in recent years the Special Investigation Commission has re-examined the growing procurement of arms and military equipment in the past periods following independence. It is not possible to get rid of the impression that all unproven accusations, unfounded assessments and suspicions and accusations as a red thread of events are accompanied by the fact that there was an unelected tenderer, as well as a number of interested groups, that the equipment with medium armoured vehicles 8x8 will also be carried out in the same way that the Slovenian Army was equipped with waves 6x6. How else can it be understood that the Ministry of Defence has also been sued for failing to implement the 2004 letter of intent signed by the then Director of Logistics, which is intended to prove that 8x8 armors will be produced by an unelected tenderer. With the purchase of Systemic Technics, Ravne is therefore supposed to buy all the future projects that the country will implement for the Slovenian Army. It is precisely because of the international call for tenders and the thorough conduct of the evaluation procedures for accepted tenders that such automatic award of the project has not taken place. When the charges were exhausted on the basis of errors and irregularities in the selection and conclusion of the contract, the difficulty was passed on to the criticisms of Gorenje and others which are taking place in the implementation of the entire project. In the last period, corruption, bribery, industrial espionage and the like are undeniably the central theme. There is also no evidence of these charges, nor has any criminal offence been found in any proceedings so far, or, if you wish, a corrupt act, of which I am referring, of course, to the proceedings conducted by the competent judicial and other authorities and not to mention in various articles and statements. Following coincidences that I can no longer call coincidences, the most intense charges have been brought even to foreign and pre-election campaigns. On the contrary, the charges and the names of who has been bribed, who has been imprisoned, who will be imprisoned and so on, instead of talking about programmes and key objectives not only in the Slovenian military, but also in state institutions and especially in politics in our country. In the DeSUS Group, we advocate that possible irregularities be identified by the competent authorities and that, if this is established, appropriate measures be taken. Activities from the media should be transferred to the regular institutions of that country, which should also, in cooperation with the Finnish and Austrian authorities, or if all possible suspicions need to be investigated in detail with the authorities of other countries. The Group supports the Slovenian Army, the Ministry of Defence and the Government in the project management so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u34	Thank you very much and very much for saying hello to everyone. Whoever is to blame shall pay, and whoever is to blame shall pay, but the matter which is set in motion by certain gentlemen and cast stones has turned against them. The stone was triggered by a reptile that would blow them away. Interesting are the stories they involve Slovenia and spit on it long and hard. They even used Finns who took advantage of the opportunity and, of course, because they're destroying their own government, they used Patrio as a state-owned enterprise under the government's influence to clean up their own, set up social democrats and do something like that together here! The fact is that the president or director of Finnish television was a consultant to the Social Democratic President and is still very active, including through Brussels and in other countries, as it appears. One wonders how it is possible for Finnish television to become so deeply involved in Slovenian internal affairs. That's off-limits. It's not something like that anybody would ever have been able to do, and I shouldn't have allowed myself to do anything like that. The fact is, I don't know what they would do, for example, to the Finns, if the Slovenian TV were to announce that the Finnish president, what I know, had some kind of sexual relationship, such an unusual kind. I think there'd be a scandal all over the world and the Finns would react significantly differently than we do. With us, half of the gentlemen who don't care about Slovenia simply bow to the Finns and respect them to heaven, but in Slovenia they would just spit. And the fact that the Finns think we're Slovenians for some banana republic is still understandable. But the fact that its own people here think that Slovenia is one 'banana republic' is treason. And such people, I hope that they will be revealed soon and that there is no room for such people in Parliament, in fact, there is no room for such political parties in Parliament. In my opinion, this is a very well-planned action with two objectives: one goal is money, and the other is the title of the election. They brought both together and a group of formers - not only them, but former officials of the State Security Service, but those of the poor quality, because those good ones don't deal with such structures or carry them out much better - prepared a matter on which the current government should fall, on the one hand. On the other hand, the contract with the Finnish Patria was to fall. When journalists mix everything, from left to right, 10 years ago, and today's events, it is necessary to say that there is a lot of what they publish, of course, indeed, but only in time that does not agree. They're talking about Mr Cekuta, who was carrying money for eight-wheelers. No, he was carrying money for six-wheelers, which is true. And ex-Major Austrian Army Cheper [[?]] About 2000 he declared that the painter, Cekuta, continued to seek money despite Riedel’s death. And then he was supposed to bring about 11 million marks into the pockets of gentlemen who then felt that more than six-wheelers could make money with eight-wheelers. Of course, it was immediately written a letter of intent that the same company, in which certain gentlemen from certain political parties are even stakeholders or have employees of their closest and dearest members there so that, of course, these gentlemen could earn even more in this business. In the case of waves, it would be an order under the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes. And these so-called TRPs mean that they ordered a secret, that the payment was a secret, that the height was paid off by a secret and everything else, everything is secret. Then a certain Erjavec comes, and when the government changes, the invitation is repeated and the invitation to tender. After this invitation to tender, Patria, who currently has the best eight-wheelers in the world and is even cheaper than 50 million euros, gets this deal. Of course, those gentlemen have run out of breaths, because some have already taken credit letters into account, bought this, what, third, and now that the deal should start running, no credit can be returned. Money doesn't come in - so what now? It's a hell of a panic. It's gonna be set up on the nose of a commission to find out what's wrong with it. The only plan, or only requirement, was that this commission should find out that it was an unfair business, at least an improper business, and that was to be confirmed by the National Assembly. Because thinking that this new facility will take over power, this document would be a sufficient guarantee to be able to break business with the Finnish Patrio and return business to the Viator&Vector, cover everything with the TRPs, again it would be a secret, the amount of money secret, who would get something, it would all be a secret, but the difference in money is about 50 million euros. For these 50 million euros, I think a lot of people are willing to do a lot of things. Of course, there are elections, because gentlemen have to win these elections if they want to withdraw these funds and dump them where they wanted to go in the first place. Of course, how different from through friendships in Finland and on the one hand through Koroška, on the other hand through Austria, Steyra, General Dynamics and so on. I think what this Finnish journalist didn't want to show up for is evidence. If there is evidence, I expect Mr Squeakl to show them today. And then we can get out of here together and take the guy who did it all together. But I don't think we're getting anybody out of here today. It seems to me that it will have to wait until after the elections, because then the matter must not die. If there is a change of power, be assured that the matter will no longer be investigated. Those who were to lose the matter would, of course, be powerless, driven to the place, and nothing would happen to everything. I must say that from the same nest and in a very similar way already came one such subversive thing - in 2004, but they did; it was my case when the gentlemen wanted to defile me, as if I were the one who sold, sold or what I know of everything, a national heritage that was not mine. However, ladies and gentlemen, it was specifically for Mr Bohinc and Mrs Richtarovo - they have, of course, counted because, despite all that, there are honest policemen at the Ministry of the Interior and they have told me what they are preparing. Two questions sent at the right time caused panic within the Ministry of the Interior and some gentlemen, and of course what now? The deer found out. And then that's the winged one that these gentlemen have extended -- "The deer needs to be fucked up," literally with those words -- it's begun to debase itself. The elections went by, that suit lost its position, the Slovenian national party was significantly stronger - and what now? Now of course it is waiting - the matter, for a while longer, because some still hope that there will be a change and that someone from the court or the prosecution will be able to do anything else to Jelinčič. It's like information that you won't think it's new and that it's only happening to some customers. This happens to any other customers. And make sure it's not over. Mr Schweiger, Director of System Technology, stated in front of the daily round of friends that we could expect another blow. He did not tell me, but he told his friends with such a sarcastic smile on his face. We can think about when this is supposed to come. It would not be unusual for a day before the election silence of the newspaper house, which was in the hands of the Shrotch Empire, to publish on the front page any evidence that, of course, after the elections, would prove to be fashionable or even falsified, but it would be too late. If this is published on Friday, she must no longer answer that question on Saturday. He's in charge of the election. Then it's over. Then, after all, it's not that important. Well, I've already said that these things were prepared by gentlemen from SDV who are of poorer quality, but they do. They also lend them to other customers, as well as without much success. I think there's something else to be said about these eight-wheelers. Eight-wheelers don't do what they thought they'd do with Viator&Vector or System Technology. Eight-wheelers, here I have from 6 March 2008 documentation on how these vehicles are being tested and what needs to be done to avoid anyone thinking, is not a Slovenian version, this is an English matter and these are requirements of the Next Pact. And these eight-wheelers should also be tested for temperature differences from minus 40 to plus 85 degrees Celsius. And if we still warm up the Slovenian political atmosphere, 85 degrees Celsius will certainly not be achieved. And there are no frosts like this in Slovenia that we could test. The testing of such vehicles takes approximately three years. There should be at least ten vehicles. And first you have to have a zero series - first the trial series, the zero series, the first series and only the third version is the one that can go into production. None of this happened. The rags were only on the drawing boards and the photos that came about the first rag came from Vienna, after fax sent by Mr. Pavček - there I have some documentation on this - and this is it. And this is supposed to be paid even more by Slovenia than Patricia would have charged. We've been paying bad money since the waves. Soldiers complain that a 12.7 caliber can easily penetrate a fully armored vehicle. The Finnish AK for 762 mm also beats that fence. And the old masquerade 7.9 goes through. Please! Does it really matter to us what happens to our soldiers, that they will be dropped in such armored armor on battlefields, where they will then be sent all over the world? Does it really matter to some that our people would die to get their hands on each other? I think it's a national betrayal. Unfortunately, in 1992, gentlemen threw an article on treason and similar matters out of the Penal Code. Big mistake. For now, not today, but after the elections, when matters become clear, many people could be punished under this Article. And so it would be; for justice must come to pass. We need to know what was going on, how things were going on, and not how we were talking, we have documents, but we don't show them that we wouldn't reveal the source. Please, if someone shows a document, it doesn't mean it says who gave it to him. In this case, if we did so, Slovenian journalism would be in a very strange light. Nevertheless, we still have good journalists based on their articles and all of them on some documents. And now we're sitting on a Finnish man who, in my opinion, made a fortune by triggering this case. It is said strangely, not only after Slovenia, but also around. As far as the truth is concerned, I don't know - I don't have any proof of this either, but they involve one great gentleman who, in ten years, has raised about a billion and a half euros worth of property to stand for it all together. And that he would also draw some journalists out of the Evening House and put them on his payroll and send them up to Finland. Strange things are said. I hope that this will all be clarified at a certain time and at certain times. And that there will also be people behind your back who do your dirty work, and you are not guilty, but some are cooking them for you. As soon as there was a variety of crossings and misdemeanors, some gentlemen felt that somewhere they would get shelter within another party, not within the framework of what they were in. We'll see. I am sure that the Slovenian nation is smart enough, sober enough, and that we will come to the truth. In the end, I hope that those who are guilty will sit and pay. And I hope that they will also receive the wealth they have earned in previous business, for corruption is a corrupt business. It should be known, however, that during corruption, Slovenian journalists push together, all because they do not know that there is a difference between commission and corruption. Commissions in the Western world are commonplace. And the only thing that's wrong with the commission is that the one who gets it doesn't pay the tax to his own country. And given that our journalists on TV had a good show of how 3.8 million went first to one and then 3.8 million to the other and then to the third, one would think that given that the sums were all the same, that there was no tax paid here, and that the Austrian state had therefore jumped up and down because they didn't get the money they needed. But I hope that's gonna come out and blow too. I only expect that we will also get on the table those 26 names which I believe have been brought by gentlemen from Slovenia to Finland, along with that preliminary report by Mr Cwickl, which we did not accept on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u36	Your Honors are here! How very little is fair. How little is the principle of Slovenian politics. During the course of today and in the past days, we have been able to witness all of you, all of you, and all of those who have tried to raise the matter several times in the past four years, but always and always you have always made this possibility impossible for all members of the opposition, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party. Since Minister Erjavec signed the contract, and this is fact number one, sir, who has been sitting behind me for the past 14 days with the title of President of the Pensioners and whose life goal were the armored 8 x 8, in this National Assembly was not allowed to speak qualitatively about the purchase of arms within our country. And all of you who have been filled with your mouth today about so-called speculations about electoral purposes, you're the one who made it impossible in the National Assembly. My colleague Eva Irgl looks at me strangely, probably because she doesn't remember being "squeezed against" every time there was a speech and when the opposition Members proposed this topic for discussion when there was time and space. But the fact is, you've always "punched against" and all of you who are now smiling in the hall. So, fact number one, which is not to be discussed and which I sincerely hope that no one will forget in the future that Mr Karl Erjavec, who is not in the Chamber, has signed that treaty. We probably all know what it means to be the head of the department, the head of the ministry, what it means to be a minister. The reference to this, if anything, to me is unknown, reflects his ability to run the ministry. The second fact that I would like to point out within the available time is that Slovenia has decided, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose President is Mr Janez Janša, to purchase these weapons through a mediator. Meanwhile, the country, which we all have in the form of a Balkan state, neighbouring Croatia, has decided to purchase this same material past the intermediary, with the same producer Patrio. And their ministry has made a direct deal with Patrio by intermediaries, and yet we have them for a little less than we are. They've saved money for the commission, let's say it's 10 or 20 million euros. But no, the Slovenian state has decided - I apologize, the Slovenian government has decided - to choose an intermediary and to select some people close to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia who will participate in this business to look for people involved in this business and to be richly rewarded. I would therefore point out that, at least in the context of the Lipa Group, the original sin originates from the basis of integration into NATO. Although I tried during that period, before the referendum, to maximize my conviction that entering NATO was a poor solution for our country, that NATO did not mean what was then full of the mouth of the previous government and this government, that it meant collective security, but meant membership in NATO only blindly following the economic interests of the United States. And arms trafficking is nothing more than a part of this business that takes place in the interest of those people who are miles away from our country. It is true, however, that there are individuals who, like in every business, give their "piscre", in our case an extremely large pot, including purchases or weapons. I am also one of those, and within the Lipa party we are one of those who claim that Slovenia should step out of this economic circle called NATO and which Slovenia is always blindly weighing a new one, let it be through the Vilnius Declaration, whose signatory is sitting here next to us and which has put us in one of those actors that supports Bush's politics, aggression - I apologize - in the Middle East. Finally, most of the arms trade comes under the pretext of NATO's obligation, but when a member of the National Assembly or a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia tries to ask us whether the Minister of Defence, President DeSUS, can tell us what our country's obligations to membership in NATO, the Minister answers that he can't apologize, that's state secrecy, because you'll see when taxpayers pay. And of course this moment is here today. Minister Erjavec, not once, but that I will not only do wrong to the President of DeSUS, even the President of the Government, or the President of the SDS, of course, will never answer that question. Not to satisfy the wishes of my colleague Zagorec or anyone else, but he does not want to respond because he does not want to familiarise the Slovenian countries with the business that is going on for that hard, iron curtain that is always prescribed to the new actor. Questions you'd like to raise under number three - why the Slovenian mission in Afghanistan? Why are we sending Slovenian soldiers to Afghanistan? Why was the signing of the Vilnius Declaration? Why do we even need to buy weapons or war equipment that we cannot even use in Slovenia? 8x8 in Slovenia will never be used, confirmed by both the Ministry and the Government as well as experts. We have just heard that this vehicle lasts from minus 40 to plus 85 degrees Celsius, do we ever encounter such temperature changes in our country? The answer is no. Then why does Slovenia need these vehicles in the first place and why Minister Erjavec does not cancel the contract, but has only been given the opportunity to freeze the contract a while ago, which is a substantive difference because there are too many people involved, who are close to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, in my opinion, also an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Are we really such a fucking country, so are we really citizens and citizens in Slovenia so rich that we can afford a few hundred million dollars to buy weapons that we will never need? Are we really so satisfied with the pay system in our country that there is no injustice within it? Are we really so blind to the politicians that we estimate that 400 euros a month can be spent in quality and normal life? Are we really so blind and deaf that we think that a pensioner under 400 euros can live qualityly in exchange for the credits he has given to this country in his active age? No! No! But this was also not to be discussed in the National Assembly under the influence of current policy. Before that, Slovenia's politics and the Slovenian government had closed their eyes. I'm one of them, and in Lip's client we're one of those who say no. Far from having such a very good salary. Far from being able to have such very good "retirements". Far from being so close to being beneficiaries, monthly, from any address so high that Slovenia could just play with a few hundred million euros, we would pay off intermediaries, for whom we have never found that they would not even be necessary. But since they were close to the President of the Government, it was only necessary to include them in the business mentioned above. Today, three proposals for conclusions are presented in the context of the views and in the introductory material. The first decision, which says that the National Assembly - and I believe that it will be, because in the final phase of the National Assembly, the voting machine, for which I believe that we are building far from looking at it, is only to look at the conclusions - will give the National Assembly a positive consensus, and this is the National Assembly, which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is defined as a separate branch of power; the National Assembly, in which 90 Members and Members are directly elected. But the National Assembly will today decide that the Minister of Defence or, in other words, the Ministry of Defence has done the right thing. This will be the first decision of the National Assembly. While we have in the air, "louft", however you want, a thousand and one question, a thousand and one clue, a thousand and one indica, that of course it wasn't. We also have no answers to the basic questions. The National Assembly will then decide and confirm that it expresses its full support for the State Prosecutor's Office and the Slovenian police. Why is that? Or is that the amount of transfiguration? Why is the National Assembly going to give all the support to the state's attorney? Because Mr Penk, one of those who fought corruption in our country through TV screens, was handcuffed, and even now there is no charge against the said gentleman, so that they managed to react in zero seconds. Just because it's fit for most of the government. Why is the National Assembly going to acknowledge Mrs. Brezigareva? To represent the SDS in the presidential past elections. Will the National Assembly therefore collectively say and influence all further procedures? Please! Do we really not have any more pride to say that such conclusions are indeed farce? And from the whole story, if someone had a good intention to try to defend some 100 million euros, maybe they could be diverted elsewhere, but I won't be a populism like Mr Erjavec, to say that every pensioner will have 1,000 euros in pensions. Are we really so damn rich that we just do something like this with a few hundred million euros and a few ten million rewards for individuals? I don't think so. And from this title, I am glad that it is, or that the current term ends. I sincerely hope that people in this country will not make another mistake and reward those who, in terms of governance, see their own wealth; who, in terms of governance, do not see the possibility for each of us to make life in this country better by means of quality laws, which would also touch those which the Slovenian government has minimized and made invisible until the elections - i.e. those who have nothing or less money. Slovenian policy, the Slovenian government has subjected health to the thickness of the wallet. Slovenian policy, or the current government, has subjected education to the thickness of the wallet. And what's probably the saddest, everyday eating habits of those we've covered our eyes with -- she hasn't seen them at all. But no matter what I say today, whether some other Members of Parliament, the National Assembly will, unfortunately, accept these conclusions. He will confirm that Minister Erjavec worked beautifully because he gave his insignia, even though he knew whether or not he knew what he was signing and how much he was hurting the Slovenian country. The National Assembly will also adopt and commend the Attorney General, Mrs Brezigarje. I sincerely hope that at least the Members who support this will support this from the same address as Mr Penk, the anti-corruption fighter, was imprisoned. Because if we can say that someone could have been inactive, if we can say that someone had their eyes closed, then this is the very institution that you are now going to use with the proposal of the decision, as you have referred to it for consideration, of course you supported. I'd like to make another point. The speakers in front of me said in a row that there's no evidence, no documents, all you're just messing with them, all you're hiding behind supposed documents. There's never anything serious about this country. I'm going to quote you on the document, and I'm going to read it literally, from date to label. I will hand over the document to the President of the National Assembly, and I sincerely hope that it will be in the interests of our country that the President, in cooperation with the President of the State, in cooperation with the President of the Government, the Minister of Defence and the National Assembly, will verify or verify the authenticity of the document. I quote: "Republic of Slovenia, Ministry of Defence, Ljubljana, Župančičeva 3, telephone" - old number because the document is old - "number 16/2" - i.e. "16-2/91, date 7.9.1991. Mr. Andrey Loshing. In view of the military - political situation in the friendly neighbouring Republic of Croatia, a decree on material assistance in military equipment and material to the Republic of Croatia was adopted by the senior management. By this decree, I hereby designate you as the responsible person in terms of the operational execution of the sale for us of the useless weapons of the former JLA. All operational tasks shall be carried out in the area of the Kočevska Reka. All tangible assets against payment of DEM 26 million. Pay for each convoy individually. The authorised person of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Slovenia is Mr Zdravko..." - you will be given a last name if the President or the President of the National Assembly so decides. In short, I repeat this paragraph: "The authorised person of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is Mr. Zdravko [[this and this]] . Report this task to me personally." Signed Minister Janez Janša. And if at any time, ladies and gentlemen, we can safely say that the same person was more or less always associated with the arms trade in our country. It's probably not hard to figure out who this person is. However, I sincerely hope that the President of the National Assembly, to whom I will of course also present the document, will act in this direction. On behalf of the Lipa party alone, I predict that we will not participate in this farce, the farce of the National Assembly, as I have already said, I am pleased to conclude, because this kind of political exploitation of the National Assembly in exchange for the election result, in return for the redirection of the course of events, is unacceptable in my opinion. It is also unacceptable for Members and Members not to follow their own self, but to follow that trade, the arms trade. From this city, I also predict that my two fellow Members will not participate in the debate, nor in the vote on these decisions, where you will vote in advance, that the Minister of Defence has worked wonderfully, that the Minister of Defence has worked phenomenally, and that Mrs Barbara Brezigar has done a great deal in the form and in pursuit of the aforementioned, but I will not say the affair, but the said classical messenger of the current government. Please, if you take this as obstruction, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! I'm also one of those people I have in my name and last name the letter "J," so much for the introduction. The pre-election campaign is obviously nearing its peak, with only a few days left until the crucial day, and we can see that the confrontations between the presidents of the parties and the comparison of programmes and the client candidates show us who we can seriously count on after September 21st. Plan A, with self-proclaimed mandate-holder Mr Pahor, has somehow begun to undermine himself, and gentlemen are giving out nerves and competence; women's beauty is a serious obstacle, philosopher's hospitality and omniscience are not attracted. The alternative government programme for the period 2008-2012, which was so vehemently announced by the Social Democrats, can mean that if we logically conclude, only that they have already accepted the opposition attitude or that they will not carry it out in the event of a victory in the elections, so it is an alternative, I suppose. The alternative is also what is happening in recent days with regard to the international procurement of light armoured personnel. And it's designed on such obvious false allegations and hints that the Slovenian public has shuddered. The logical conclusion of citizens is no longer tolerated by such lowliness of mind. An artificial affair with the help of Finnish television about bribing Prime Minister Janez Janša with a series of lies, accusations, hints, political discredits and nothing else she has put on the table any evidence of claims. None. The president of the anti-corruption commission in the show says he has no evidence but that he only makes a logical conclusion. Instead of the successful conclusion of his investigative commission, Mr Squeakl is very obviously referring to illegality, as others who perform in the show think similarly. The documents to back up their claims, no one wants to show, are obviously the best protected secret, although a Finnish journalist claims that he even has those documents. Of course, the Slovenian public is not aware of how many of these performances of Mr. Squeak, Kos, Potocnik and others stood on Finnish television and who sponsored it. After yesterday's echoes, we can assume that everything started after the April meeting of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission in Finland with his colleagues, at least so it was possible to understand from his strange answers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that you are part of the opposition in such an undemocratic, low, dirty and divisive way that it wants to push its way into the next term. Instead of discussing the programmes, content and anything else for the next period, everything focused on the account with John Janša, with a fictional and constructed story. This approach did not take place for the first time, nor for the first time in this mandate, since some Members, including the European Members, have done so several times - let us remember only the performances of Mojca Drčar Murko or Darje Lavtijar Bebler at the Council of Europe, when we received visits from Commissioners for Human Rights, Robles and Hammarberg, or petitions before the presidency or from the Rope affair with the listening of Sanader. Every time Janša was the target. By the way, despite the use of all possible tricks, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, led by counterpart Gantar and in which the opposition has a majority, has not been able to establish any of Rob's claims. They're all lies. Such an approach, such a pattern of behavior is known from past periods prior to independence, was the basis for all the cleansings that have occurred in our past history. After his independence, he re-traced him for his political backdrop and justified the former President of the Republic of Milan Kučan at the 1994 Borut Pahorje parliamentary evening in Novi Gorica, citing: "...that all the funds have been allowed to defeat the enemy, not only those known by democracy, but all that democracy has nothing to do with. This is first disqualification and then liquidation, if necessary physical." End of quote. This expression appears to have been written in the flesh and blood of the successors of the former party, and these principles are evidently followed faithfully. In this way they removed from visible political functions all the key policies of Demos, except one. We're supposed to finally break this in the 20th or 30th attempt with a big bang, as announced days ago in the Sunday Diary. More than half a year ago, Drago Kos, president of the anti-corruption commission, announced the following story last November. I quote: "In about six months, I think it will be very clear where this anxiety with the representatives of a political party in particular, where these pressures come from. In six months at the latest, I think that we will be able to inform the public of the results of our work, which will be such that they will arouse very much attention and, of course, will be severely affected by some who are now so vehemently shouting that the President must step down." End of quote. It is said that a forecast of what will happen last November was made and repeated a few days ago in the Sunday Diary. This time, in this last case, this dirty task was entrusted to Mr Ciccle, the new hope of the Social Democrats, who immediately after the violation received the responsible task of leading the investigative commission. The target, as I mentioned earlier, was the same this time: Janez Janša as a real politician, who remained from that period, an important factor in Slovenia and who also successfully led Slovenia on the path of success and who also wants to continue along this path. All the red alarms have been talking for a long time because of the results. A political change four years ago led to the marketing of old ties. The lobbies were underprivileged, and the acquisitions of military equipment by the previous governments were also important. All acts with, say, light armoured 8X8 were adopted by the previous coalition between 2001 and 2004, when Mr Borut Pahor chaired this house and when Dr. Janez Drnovšek and Mag was led by the government. Tone Rop. Even now the Social Democrats. This government just inherited all these acts. Well, not just that. The previous coalition also identified the supplier of the most expensive set of light armoured new generation. Systemic technique was selected, which was sold to Viator&Vector in the short term, without a call for tender. An alternative to selling without a public invitation to tender is a public tender, but that government did not do so because the majority share, this is said to be 80% of this company, was sold to Viator&Vector in May 2003 for a very low amount, at the price of slightly more than one armour. However, before the government sold the majority share of the Viator&Vector System Technology in 2003, it ordered 6X6, 36 pieces of armor and apparently was sold to Viator & Vector for a purchase representing less than 3% of the value of the contract previously executed by the Government in the same company. The part of this contract was also the sale of 29% of the share of Systemic Technics to Steyru, who settled the purchase with a license for a new armor to come into the Slovenian Army. Also an integral part of this deal was a letter of intent signed by the Government of Rob in the Systemic Technology. This letter of intent was also signed without any basis under invitation to tender. The estimated value of trade for eight-wheelers is around 300 million euros. If we take the whole set, we can find out that the Government, by order and with a potential order through a letter of intent, sold the System Technology for six thousand value purchases or potential supplies. She practically gave it to the buyer. It is only from this that we can see how the previous political suit broke through the state budget, because they had very dispersed hunters and in a very simple way access to military equipment. This related trade was inherited by this government and Minister Erjavec decided to proceed with the procurement procedure for the international public tender. When this decision was taken, no one protested, for apparently they relied on the weakness of the coalition and on the dispersed hunters at the Ministry of Defence and perhaps in some parts of the Slovenian Army. Protests and accusations began when a selection was made of suppliers who were not in line with the expectations of the Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy, namely those who set up the business of eight-wheelers. A media race has begun, an investigative commission has been set up, and its leadership has been entrusted to Mr Cwickle. Instead of leading and identifying the facts, this gentleman did everything else. As the work of this commission took place, you could also create your own judgment by looking at the media. Some members stepped out of the Commission, some announced this, and in the end three members decided to request a hearing from the chairman of the commission of inquiry, as the President turned out to be politically, businessally and otherwise connected with the Systemic Technics and the Viator&Vector. An expert from a competitive and unchosen tenderer was hired in the work of the Commission. That, if I take Mr Kos off, logically means that it may also be industrial espionage. There are also links between those who were the main importers of the investigation. Cricket's new passenger was on the Viator&Vector's payroll, Draga Kos's brother is Viator&Vector's lawyer, Mr Schweiger is the director of the tender for the failed System Technology. That is why all these persons are also so driven. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u39	Mr. Tanko, there's only one thing I'd like to ask you. In view of the calls from the hall, I would just like to say that so many names have been said in all the discussions so far that if you wanted to stop, you should have been stopped in the beginning. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u40	Thank you very much. It is true that investigations into the conduct of the persons responsible in Finland are under way, but on the basis of these investigations, the President of the Government, ministers and others who participated in the execution of this contract are being tried without concrete evidence. However, if the basis of an unproven and unproven accusation and false suspicions on the basis of which the broadcast of Finnish television was also made, it is difficult to expect investigative authorities to act; credible materials are also required for the investigation. Let me just remind you that Mr Pahor has started to talk a while ago about the need to change the pattern of political behaviour. For a few days, this has been repeated by Mr Golobič. Dearly beloved, what Finnish television has brought along with the assistance of members of the opposition, then also the former editor or arranger of material from the Vič-Holmec affair, former police officer and current president of the anti-corruption commission Kosa, is this revised political pattern of behaviour of political murder without evidence. And, gentlemen, you don't want to change anything, you want this sample brought back and reinstated in this country. The scenario by which they would politically charge Janša, Ministry officials and some members of the Slovenian Armed Forces by means of a foreign television house failed. Most domestic media have not inherited some of their colleagues who have so far been dragged into an awkward situation. The media is reporting, but they've become cautious. They want evidence, we're expecting you here, and we've been expecting you from the public for a while. And if you have them, I suggest you share them here. Even more, if you do have them, you are obliged to refer them to the investigating authorities. We expect you to do that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also expect that, with the conclusion of this meeting, the pre-election campaign will also return to the right tracks, to the content, compared to the programmes, to the new objectives of Slovenia in the next term, to comparisons of candidates, that is to say what this Slovenia needs most in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Too much time would require an explanation of all the non-truths, lies, malicious claims made today for this booth and whose main carriers were Mr Chernak, later Mr Janša and Mate and now Mr Tanko. The content of these statements clearly shows what is the purpose of today's meeting of the National Assembly. For the broadcast of Finnish television, which was as much a surprise to us Social Democrats as it is to you, it is broadcast to blame the Social Democrats and to connect us with Finnish television or Finnish Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen! However you mock it, it's a grave lie, insinuation, it's your attempt now 14 days, 10 days before the elections to accuse the Social Democrats of incriminating a TV show on Finnish television so they can show themselves and President Janša for the victim and accuse us of making this sacrifice. I'm sure the electorate and the electorate will recognize this manipulation of yours, let me say it again, however you mock such statements. And secondly, your wish at this meeting of the National Assembly is, in the same way as you objected, that without evidence you should not accuse anyone, nor Mr. Prime Minister Janša, without evidence to accuse us. What evidence, ladies and gentlemen, do you have that it was any agreement that the show on Finnish television was working with our help? What proof do you have? Read what Mr. Milan Squeakl said on Finnish television. This also applies to you, and this also applies to you democrats, who, by the way, give little to the truth. It's impossible to charge, today you've accused us of conspiracy, today you've accused us of years ago, and I don't know all the actions. I strongly object and protest against such conduct. Today's session is about exactly what you wanted all along. Because you are not sure whether you will succeed in a fair election [[...]] [[Mr President, can Mrs Irgle and Mr Jerovšek give peace to speak?]] . No, no, no. Your wish is because you are not sure whether you will achieve your election victory with a fair match, to accuse the Social Democrats of the actions you are doing alone. I am firmly convinced that this will not work and that the conspiracy you have forged against Social Democracy this time will be evident, because you have no evidence for all claims. But you think it is enough that you have a majority that is enough to be able to take decisions that are enough to make it impossible for us to have enough time to present your views, because you have assured yourself that coalition parties, the government will speak and proposers will speak the same, and you have given us too little time to enforce and tell us all their views. When and how can you claim that at any time we have ever been a party to the Social Democrats or as a parliamentary group accused anyone of accepting corruption? We didn't charge anyone with that. Neither does President Jansha. But you hope, for your own sake, to say, duplicity, to do yourself for the persecutor, to create against yourself a sense of conspiracy, and to conspire against someone else. I am confident that the truth will come sooner or later, that the principle of innocence and guilt will soon be established, that the competent authorities will decide on it, not the corrupt political majority in the National Assembly, which is few for any principles of fairness, and that the electorate and electorate will find out what is true and proper in the end, no matter what the electoral results will be. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Government said at the end of his speech that he wanted us to go back to a fair election campaign, that he wanted this Slovenia to start talking for the last 10 days before the elections about the problems that people, young people, employees, pensioners, the success or failure of the economy, the resolution of social issues - we also agree with that. He said he felt that it would be best for us to return to these issues immediately and stop accusing each other. To be honest, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, who have proposed for this extraordinary session to follow your President, to stop telling lies and half-truths and to propose the suspension of this meeting in order to return to the real issues of Slovenian and Slovenian interest, on his proposal. However, what is true about the conclusion of the contract and possible corruption in the case of Patrio should be decided by the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u44	Respectable. It may also be important for the applicants or those who requested this extraordinary meeting whether it is new. It is for me that we have the opportunity today to talk about what has been repented of in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today, the editor here made it very clear that before the National Assembly, when the Defence Committee and everyone else had the opportunity to discuss the selection of the 8x8 bidder, they had already dealt with this in client forums. For the first time in history, I have now heard - in the history of the independent state of Slovenia - that there is one party, and of course not one, dealt with the purchase of armoured men, which are a business of the century not only for Slovenia, at the highest authority of its party. I can understand why. Of course, it is an opportunity, even though you talked about everything else yesterday and today, like what you wrote in the title to say again what the National Assembly should have in such matters. First time. Another time. To make it very clear to the Slovenian public that we will break with the manners that have been the practice of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Whenever something wanted to blurt out, divert attention, you went after the press and threatened. Now it's splashing across the border. And now you're threatening even foreign journalists, editors, and so on. Of course, the point is that Mr Pukšič will have to hide even more, not only in the back of the bench and under the bench, if he wants all that is to be achieved with this meeting justifiable. Yeah, conspiracy theory. You're making up a conspiracy theory with last year's confidant to the Prime Minister in 1994 and ever. We say this, no, we're not going to discuss any TV shows, no press contributions, we have legal institutions that defend reputation and dignity, if you want, even the work of individuals, institutions and the like. And we swear to that. Look, you've demented yourself or you've wet Mr. Speaker into some sort of business. You talk all the time about just continuing the work that has been started in previous or previous mandates. Here, after mentioning the President of the National Assembly in 2001, and of course all subsequent governments, he says, in yesterday's opinion of the Government to your material, a member of the Parliament, was dismissed, he repeated three times at a meeting of the Defence Committee to support the views of the Government. But here is a document in which you have signed Members of Parliament requesting this clearance. Please, in front of the Slovenian public! The minister didn't know. He couldn't explain. But Mr. Speaker or Government writes in his position [[Date: 8.9.2008]] : "The resolution is very detailed and, among other things, it is defined as the most important weapon of the motorised battalions, which will be the core of the battle groups, wheeled armoured, equipped with appropriate weapons, which is also described in the resolution." "For the implementation of the resolution" - and from now on I believe that you will finally stop lying, deceiving - "for the successful implementation of the resolution, the Government adopted the mid-term defence programme 2005-2010 or, in accordance with the defence planning system in NATO, at the end of 2006 the medium-term defence programme for defence planning..." and so on, on the basis of this, a call was launched and so on. Only when you have been defined in the documents will you buy this when you have secured money in the Basic Development Programmes Act, when you have provided funds in the budget on this basis each year, as specified, you can go to the public tender, to the selection, purchase and supply. The evidence is here in a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, who was sent yesterday as an opinion of the Government for this extraordinary meeting. Not to say that there is not one thing in this document that relates to the title as this meeting today should be. But you tried again - well, among other things, that conclusion, which I initially said was not a lapsus - to get ahead, to tell your truth, to dump the Slovenian space and make another sacrifice. And you write down, even from another document, I went to watch when you requested another session, you proposed the same decision and you forgot to correct the competitive clause and write an anti-corruption clause. Please, is this what this National Assembly is supposed to be? I myself had to write to the Minister for half a year as Chairman of the Defence Committee on the visa of what he had said in the introduction, how it was with the Slovenian Democratic Party. And after only a few months, he wrote to the President of the National Assembly in distress to prevent members of the National Assembly from carrying out their basic mission, which is to control the use of public money. They couldn't stop it, but they collected all the legal powers on that side, and they couldn't. Mr. Cuckoo couldn't stop that sight. But we could only look seven months later, as they had already dealt with it there. But I am grateful to Mr. Chernach for saying this today, how simple this is. And Mr Erjavec never told the committee what he was supposed to say to the National Assembly. That's why I'm going to repeat the questions today. But I will explain just one detail, which he will try to blur today, what it is with these famous intermediaries or, otherwise, appointed agents. Until the election fell, they said, "no, no, we'll be direct, we don't need any agents" and so on. A letter or an interview appears in the public, the representative of Rotis says: "We have learned that Slovenia will buy these vehicles, we have connected with the Finnish Patria and received representation from them." The minister claims that he received a letter from Patrienne saying that Patria demanded that it be Rotis. No, Mr. Secretary. Several times in these months, now that it is hot, Patria has publicly stated that the Ministry of Defence has requested that she be an intermediary in this business, Rotis. But it's okay, the minister would like to, like, speak like that, and yesterday he denied on the Defence Committee what he said on Friday about the work newspaper. Why did he inform the Prime Minister of this contract or this purchase? So that I won't be long because, I quote, "because we've spent 19.5 million euros in total and we've exceeded the sum we had at our disposal." Where's the invitation? Where are the explanations? Your statement, and you denied yesterday that you were overstepping and that that's true. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You'll have to explain it to the public. [[...]] And that I won't be too long, it's about asking the Minister, unquestionably, once again, to tell us what we're going to get. We know that 150, 135 armored men finally selected, were claimed to be equipped. Now in the last three months, articles appear in the newspapers that the Ministry of Defence has selected another arms supplier who does not correspond to what is supposed to be in the tender and which is incompatible with what this vehicle is supposed to have. Why is it that the weapons are getting worse, and how much more equipment will it cost us? We want to hear incontrovertibly, not what we have received today, it is a shame that Minister Mate and Mrs Brezigar have worked so hard to prepare two reports for us. But look what happened to this police report. They're not talking about what happened since February, you're saying that something has happened to you to institute an internal investigation, but it's interesting, I'm reading the last paragraph that you and Liechtenstein have already heard about it, but this paragraph is a force important from your report: "For the determination of the reasons why the Slovenian interpol has responded so late at the request of the Austrian interpol, the Director-General of the Slovenian Police..." Not in the previous paragraph where it says: "Despite the consistent practice of exchange of information between Interpol Ljubljana from Interpol Helsinki and Interpol Bangkok after the data collected so far has not received any information for knowledge. Interpol of Slovenia responded to the emergency room only..." and so on. Look, you expect them to give you the answers, give you an explanation of what they have, and you don't do anything for a year and a half. That's what it says here. You expect them to get you, and you haven't even responded. That's what it says in here. That is why we simply expect you to explain why, but really why there has been no activity since January 2007. I believe, like you said on Saturday, you'll have a review of what was really going on there by Tuesday. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But you better tell the National Assembly like you did at a press conference if you promised to give it to the National Assembly. How that matter formally started only after the establishment of this Joint Investigation Commission, although it has long been clear and there were indications, was information that it was something else. We expect Minister Erjavac to finally submit an internal investigation report, which he allegedly introduced at the Ministry of Defence when he found out this was the case. So far, the National Assembly has not received any reports on the results of this internal investigation. And, of course, even more, now, if there is something, but it is clear that some financial flows have been leaked and that some people who are connected or mentioned in public broadcasts have been among them in 1991 as well as now, and cash transactions have been confirmed, so do not say that what you promised, that there will be no intermediaries, there will be no money and that no money will go through, is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers of the Slovenian Government, distinguished Secretary-General, honourable Members, Members, Citizens and Citizens. The entire mandate of this government, in part of the policy and in part of the public, was intended to give the impression that decisions on the purchase of armoured vehicles were taken exclusively in the current mandate of the National Assembly and that the procedures were imprecise. The purchase is being used to politically discredit the entire coalition, which was entrusted to the leadership of this country by voters in October 2004. A parliamentary investigative committee has been set up to investigate certain suspicions. However, the President of the Commission, with his own biased conduct on the principle: "The Commission, this is me," Cwickl, led the Commission to a final blockade and some of its members, including a member of the New Slovenia Group, left the Commission before. However, I am somewhat disappointed, my fellow Members and colleagues, that the position of the Group of Social Democrats was not presented by a colleague of mags. A cricket who knows more about patriots than we all do together. I was expecting the truth about Patricia, part three. The peak of the most absurd charges was achieved in the broadcast of the Finnish TV station, where Slovenian players perform as the main heroes. Now the world of Slovenia has been known to broadcast the Truth about Patria, and it has seen about 480,000 viewers in the most recent period. Director Jungner has been set up by Finnish politics, a member of the Social Democrats. The text report says that the broadcaster said that television has documents that also burden some people from Slovenia. There's over a dozen people on the list. The Slovenian Prime Minister has been mentioned several times. One person in Patri's files appears as a "J" person. The person "J" was supposed to deliver the money to Walter Wolf. "J" is Janez Janša, president of the Slovenian government, said the director of the show Magnus Berglund. We ask, Mr Berglund, where is the evidence of your claims and where your morals and morals of your Slovenian associates and the morals of your tourist guide in paradise under Triglav? Ladies and gentlemen, the New Slovenia Group is a co-signatory of the request to convene today's meeting of the National Assembly. According to the unproven, flat-rate, politically motivated accusations made by the Finnish journalist and his colleagues from Slovenia against our country, today's debate in the National Assembly should take place in terms of the mobilisation of the patriotic and democratic forces of the Republic of Slovenia. We should protect Slovenian independence as the greatest value and a thousand-year dream of the Slovenian people. Instead of dealing with brainstorming in search of the best solutions these days, for the next step, for an even better Slovenia, we are facing a dirty election campaign against the current coalition. Any reference to the National Assembly should positively mark our national, political and other social dynamics. So much more because we're still in transition. Our transition, despite exceptional work and extraordinary success in this mandate, is still, in fact, still marked by the Leninist political doctrine that conspiracy is a subterranean act, a systematic lack of confidence in all people, in ours and more, in our case of true democrats, the essence of achieving, maintaining and deepening political power in a nation. If you open the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language in the word "conspiration" you can find an explanation: the conspiracy is a covert act, especially in order to achieve a political goal. It's that hard pendant of communism that sticks to the feet of our young democracy and convinces her to walk freely. The conspiration in Slovenian political thinking is still very strong because it gives the impression that it is capable of clouding and stifling any genuine democratic event or at least producing it, laughing and publicly humiliating. This stick is dragging us like a ditch of snakes in the country. The Patria affair is a cleverly prepared conspiracy action, which this time was entrusted to a foreign journalist. The Finnish version of the conspiracy action was born. Not because she would not have been pretentious and skillfully carried out, not because she would not have had enough Pharisees ’ moral rules. The mystery of the whole thing was also well dosed. So what has happened recently that the conspiracy action failed for the first time at the most moment for the future of the Slovenian left? Let me mention just three reasons: the first objective success of the current government and coalition; the second is the successful leadership of the Presidency of the European Union at all levels, in particular at the level of fresh and creative ideas of the Slovenian government as a whole and of individual ministers who have established new relations with their district colleagues across the European Union. A third reason is the profound change in relation to such a creative policy in the vast majority of the Slovenian people. For the first time in so long, the Slovenian people have come to realize that it is nice to be Slovenian, Slovenian, that other nations are increasingly taking us into account and accepting that they expect more from us than we imagined that, with the European Union, we are a strong member of its future and that the door to cooperation with the country of Slovenia has been put on hold and finally opened. Since the Slovenian people never believed in the power of the conspiracy policy, at these moments they saw a new political spring, as well as a new future for the Slovenian thought. What is a conspiracy in politics is the perverseness of thought and thinking in philosophy. In recent times, people have begun to have the hope that the power of reason and in sound intellectual origins is the basis for free decision-making, even in political and economic terms. And on this new hope, on this new knowledge, expectations, challenges such as globalisation and the functioning of the state of Slovenia at global level, Slovenian conspiracy strategies have spilled manure and fuelled an international disgraceful heap that has been set up by real success carriers. Hope, respected colleagues and colleagues of this congregation, in humans are killed only by conquerors, not by the true leaders of their people. Today this has become clear to all Slovenian public. Today, conspiracy as a political method and strategy is finally exposed as an activity that cripples people's deepest abilities, crushes them and leads them to a flood and finally to death. This is not the essence and purpose of the policy. Interestingly, this coalition has received major criticism, constructed at home, launched abroad, or constructed at home and launched abroad. We in Novi Slovenija regret and we are convinced that, for example, a large part of the 570 signatories of last year's petition against censorship and political pressure on journalists in Slovenia have been abused. Certainly, at least retired journalists, journalists from Ciciban and members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council did not know that the petition would rumble at over 300 European and world addresses. They did not know that the content of the petition warned the European Union that the Presidency of Slovenia for the European Union was dangerous. This writing to Europe and the world reminds us of the letters of many who also wrote to Europe and the world, but out of love for their own people, they wrote 17 years ago and asked prominent institutions and individuals to support the independence of Slovenia. At that time - we have the film documentation - with a smooth articulation of foreign language words to colleagues from Avantgarde, we guarantee that we will not allow Slovenia to secede from such an ideal family as the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I quote, "The Communist Alliance of secession as its option so far has never talked about it and now does not talk about it." [[End of quote.]] A related translation: "The Union of Communists has not spoken about secession as its choice until now and does not talk about it." A simple analyst finds that in these events and affairs there are always the same political forces. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exploitation and abuse of the 500 million-million-dollar European citizens' range and the mutilation of its own country, it is now an urgent reflection on Slovenia's placement in the European Union. In the European Union, we are appreciated for our achievements - record economic growth, record low unemployment, increase in fertility and takeover of the euro, which means our last step on our long journey home to Europe. Slovenia is home to Europe. In New Slovenia we call for plebiscite unity. It is a historic opportunity for our country to join the European mental flows that have been routed by the fathers of Europe. The Patria affair, designed to discredit this government and this coalition, has therefore completely and definitively failed. In Novi Slovenija we also expect that this is the last attempt to mutilate its own country, constructed at home, launched from the outside. Slovenia is too valuable to be protected with all its means. This will also be done by the Members of New Slovenia in the future, with all the heart and love for Slovenia, which is our hard-won country. Confirmation of the proposed coalition conclusions is the least we can do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows, all present! In opening, I must say that I am pleased that today is 9 September 2008 and that we are living in a single Slovenia, a member of the European Union, a member of NATO, and that we are looking ahead, too, personally, with optimism for future times. I must therefore say that we regret and regret the need to convene this extraordinary meeting, rather than to discuss the development problems of Slovenia, the resolution of social problems, the consistent regional development, with a focus on the sustainability of this development and other problems affecting Slovenian people. I will not talk about the entire history of the procurement of eight-wheelers that are the subject of today's debate. All of these procedures, as we have already heard many times in this debate, have actually started in the previous term. However, this mandate has, of course, brought down certain procedures or procurement procedures, and this is supposed to be the most controversial part of the whole story. In the Slovenian People's Party, we can begin by saying that we did not participate in any of this project, nor do we have any allegations and accusations directly on us. Therefore, of course, I can think about this matter in a slightly different way. Again, the Slovenian People's Party is not in this story! What do we expect in the Slovenian People's Party and in the parliamentary group? We expect and defend the rule of law. At this point, we cannot claim that anyone has received a bribe or that it is not. No one can claim that right now. This can be confirmed with certainty only by the court and left to the police, the prosecution and the courts to do their job. May the judgment be delivered in the end, and not here in the National Assembly, nor the media, nor anyone else. This is the only way that we can continue to ensure that we have a legal state, and we are always and everywhere in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. There is no need for any bribe to be given to anyone in Slovenia. It is shocking enough that any money for this purpose has been sent from Finland anywhere. The taxpayers would have been injured for at least this amount and the contracting authority would have overpaid the eight-wheelers for at least this amount. In particular, this needs to be clarified as soon as possible on the legal path. With 21 million euros, as the figure appears in the public; I do not claim it is the right one, nor does it even exist; Mr Erjavec, Minister, we could pay, say, 100 euros in allowances to 210 000 pensioners with the lowest pension. In addition, there are unnecessary intermediaries here, instead of concluding a direct contract with the Finnish contractor if you have already decided to do so. Of course, there's still a lot of money left for intermediaries. If this were the most transparent business, there would certainly be no intermediaries. Your Honor! The SLS Group will support the proposal of the conclusions because they are general and logical and should be subject to all the procedures so far. But I must at least turn to the first conclusion, where some have misinterpreted this first conclusion. The first decision is as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia did the right thing when an international invitation to tender for the purchase of eight-wheeled armoured personnel was made. That's all it says and nothing else. It is not stated in this Decision that all proceedings are properly carried out to the place, but it is only noted that the tender procedure was properly carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The draft conclusions will be discussed. Before we go to the debate, I would like to inform you of the amendments tabled. All the amendments tabled so far by the Group of Ambassadors are, indeed, irrelevant to the third decision because they have not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We expect a new amendment to be tabled, although I must remind you that Mrs Orazem has previously said that they will not participate in the debate. Since I later wanted to know whether this meant obstruction, she told me that this meant obstruction of the Group of Ambassadors, indeed, to the debate and to the vote. But something's missing. This should be done by the Head of the Ambassador of the Group, or by his deputy. Mrs. Orzmova isn't. That's why I expect someone to do that at the time of the meeting. Mr Mag has a word on the list. Marco Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I'm still Branko Grimes. I remain a member of the SDS. Good-bye to all of you. Above all, at the starting point, I would like to draw attention to one thing. Today, in fact, this story is primarily about values, the fundamental values of the Slovenian state, the fundamental values of common human values, including human dignity. And when it comes to protecting human dignity, they are extremely sensitive abroad. This is a reflection of a high political culture. For instance. There are known examples of America, or Germany, France. For example, SBS, Stern magazines, nationalists, when a number of journalists and editors had to step down because they accused someone in some broadcast, they backed up, watch out, by publishing documents, but later it turned out that these documents were faked. And that, ladies and gentlemen, was the reason that they all packed and left and had to leave journalism forever. This way, of course, journalism is worth all the respect and due respect in these countries. We have too much money paid for by the tycoon capital, not all of us, not all of us, but some of us, who have said, "They're guilty." What we listened to, uncritically transmitted messages, "We knew, we were not surprised, the money went," all in hard form. And the same claims, literally the same claims, were made by all three parties, so-called Transition Lefts: SD, LDS and Indeed. We have also seen some of these verbal feats today, such as Ambassador Zares, who began: "Today we know that the money went..." and there, and there, after the debate, which many today object to, went through the door. Because, of course, when it's necessary to put evidence on the bench, then the whole thing goes wrong. And this is about this relationship, this casual attitude towards human dignity. But you know, it's a lot more. The whole story began abroad, abroad with great help, directing people from Slovenia: Blaž Zgaga, Milan M. Zvikl, Mr. Potočnik, Mr. Kos and so on, that I will not list everyone. Undoubtedly, these are people who are party-defined, recognized, some also perform responsible functions in the legislative branch of government. It was these people who went abroad without any evidence to accuse their own country, its key people, its key statesmen, and thus cast a shadow of doubt upon all of us. It's this method that's really so controversial. And to this method, I stress this at the starting point, in the SDS we will never land, we will never land in the SDS, that in the battle for power it is allowed to use all funds. This value point is clearly used by the transition left. We don't accept it, we reject it completely. Look, somewhere the limit is permissible, even in politics, even in pre-election combat. And if anywhere, then this boundary represents man's dignity, a grave intervention into man's dignity, and the profanity of his own country abroad. At first, as a starting point, I said it was values. In a way, this was beautifully illuminated by one of the key ideologists of the so-called transition left, which was already a few times, even the last only a few weeks ago, perhaps as a prediction of the current event, this broadcast, wrote that patriotism is a surviving value, that it is a value that no longer exists for modern people. And I say the opposite. The value of patriotism is one of the fundamental values that we have enshrined at the time of independence, is the fundamental value enshrined in certain international acts, including those of the NATO Union, in EU acts. And he that thinks such a value is lived is wrong, evil, evil. And that is why I believe that today there is a lot of panic on the other side, because the transition left itself has gotten into an impossible situation because it is aware that it has revealed itself, that things are transparent and that people are aware that every vote for the LDS, for the SD, will really legitimize the method of muding Slovenia abroad. And people won't do that. I trust people, the Slovenians are a politically mature nation. Especially because it didn't show up for the first time. And let me just point out the sequence of events. This first appeared in 1994 when John Janša was released. At that time, academic connections were misused, a letter with the content that the then Defense Minister was preparing a coup. When this letter was published here, however, there was a cry and a cry that someone had been reached into private mail, even though it was written in the letter itself that he should be sent on to the following addresses. What happened to the Holmac was said by the Prime Minister of the Government. I'll sign that. But the story has a sequel to this term. It began with the night of the long noses, on October 3, 2004, when some very loud journalists went on strike, exactly on a day that is a holiday of democracy, on the day of the elections. And then the time of Slovenian journalism saved some commercial stations, regional and local television and radio stations, which carried things and people could see that some were not superhumans, but that they were invincible. And they just saw those long faces. And soon they'll see them again. That's when the next thing happened. The same story was repeated in the so-called deleted ones, which are not, because in fact it was just a transfer. It was a lie abroad. I quote someone from Italy who came here to protest when he made a statement on POP TV, "Friends from Slovenia have informed me that you have taken citizenship from 18 000 people." What a lie. We offered everyone citizenship if they were only here at the time of their independence. And we were the only country in the world that did it. Then we put thousands of Roma in some concentration camps. Furthermore, in Slovenia the government censors all media. What a nonsense! This National Assembly has even adopted a decision at a so-called anti-Takkuun meeting, which is very important that Taiwanese capital, which actually controls most central media due to its lack of transparency, threatens the constitutional right to inform Slovenian citizens and citizens. And that, of course, indirectly, the National Assembly, as the legislator, has also lied to those who, on the last day before the start of our leadership of the European Union, have sent an unrealistic petition for which, by the way, some have abused as many as 500 signatures of their colleagues and colleagues, and that is, by the way, the same person who appears again in this story. And finally, when it comes to so-called bribery, which, of course, was gone. This will turn out in a few months when the elections are long overdue and no one will be interested. And who are these people: Mr. Potočnik is a candidate on the list of LDS, Mr. SD star SD, Mr. Kos pet and protector of Zares [[We can go see what the discussions were like when we discussed it.]] . That, ladies and gentlemen, is really what this is about. If it were a show for the Finns, then why isn't there a word that Mr. Swickle abused the National Industrial Intelligence Assembly for his colleague in Systemic Engineering? It's obviously something else. Let me put an end to what I started: no one has the right to malign our countries abroad by spreading untruths, no one. And these elections, ladies and gentlemen, will be about values.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Sturm, Minister of Justice, spoke on behalf of the Government. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! I would like to respond to the findings that have been put against the prosecution in the debate so far. Mr Pece, Commissioner, mentioned in his presentation, inter alia, that Mr Penk, the Attorney General of State, through TV screens, had slipped into handcuffs and that today Mrs Brezigareva could not express her support. Prosecutor Penk's case is a bad case for bringing someone up in a fight against corruption if he was arrested as a state prosecutor when he was meeting a suspect in a serious case of economic crime. The representative of the Zares Group, honourable Member Mrs Zalokar Orazem, has made several observations. Thus, she claims that Mrs Brezigar continues to argue that she did not have any Indicators to begin the procedure and that they are waiting for documents from Finland, and she wonders who is therefore lying. The Attorney-General - I answer - never claimed that the state's prosecution and the police, and not herself, had no indictances to initiate the proceedings. The forecasting process is under way, but according to the police's assurances and the findings of the prosecutor responsible for the case, there is still no data to allow any focus on the specific person's suspicion of a specific crime. Insinuation that the Slovenian authorities are simply waiting and are not implementing measures in the forecasting process does not have a basis in fact. The police and the state authorities are working and not waiting in the forecasting process. Further statement by Ambassador Orzmova that the Finns have been conducting the forecasting process for a year. We wonder how the MP knows that. According to the D.A., in Finland, the investigation into specific persons has been focused since May 2008. Next statement: "Mrs. Brezigar is a close associate of Mr. Janez Janša." The message is considered to be one of the narrower circles involved in the Patria business. The Attorney General shall have powers under the law and shall act in this context. However, in a specific case, a senior state prosecutor who has long experience and is highly professional is working independently and independently in the forecasting process. Insinuated involvement of the Attorney General in the matter is a grave lie and an intervention in its professional integrity. We expect Members to have at least a fundamental respect for the institutions of their own country. Next. Again, "Final investigators are supposed to say that due to lack of cooperation on the Slovenian side they cannot effectively carry out procedures." There are problems in cooperation because the Slovenian authorities need certain precisely defined data in accordance with Slovenian legislation, as defined by Slovenian legislation, so that they can take the necessary measures. Therefore, short contacts can only take place because of the diversity of legislation. The agreement establishing a joint investigation team explicitly states that all measures in each country will be carried out in accordance with the legislation of that country. In this regard, the Finnish authorities were also required to provide certain data in order to satisfy Slovenian legislation. And with regard to the apparent fact that the State's Attorney's Office has so far not worked intensively in the investigation of the case in question. It is clear from the reports that the claim does not have any basis, since the State Prosecutors are active in the case at all times and that there is no Member of Parliament who will dictate the intensity and content of the action in the forecasting procedure. This is not within her jurisdiction and this would mean even a grave interference with the independent and independent work of the authorities in the forecasting process. Even more so, the statements made by the representative of the Group of Members are indeed irresponsible because, in such or similar form, she received specific explanations from the Attorney-General on the Committee of the National Assembly yesterday and, as we see, repeated them today. And the answer to the evidence given to the prosecution by honourable Mr Anton Anderlich. I'll give you a brief summary. He argued that Mrs Brezigar and Mr Mate have prepared two reports: you expect to receive information from Finnish investigators, and the MNZ has not even responded. It therefore expects clarifications from the MNZ and the Prosecutor's Office as to why no activities have been carried out since January 2007. The formality of the case began in May 2008, although the information was already available. How have things started to work out and to take place only since the establishment of the investigation panel group and not before? The end of Mr Anderlich's summary. Answer. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, the D.A. reacted as soon as the case was reported. That's May 22, 2008. Repeating claims that the prosecution should act at any time before that date do not have any basis, since the State Prosecutor's Office is legally bound and cannot react without a basis and because it seems to someone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u54	Mr President, thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting. We are witnessing the farce of democracy and the abuses of parliament for pre-election purposes. If this democracy in Slovenia were mature, respected ladies and gentlemen, then this Parliament would leave Milan Swickl to lead this commission to prepare a report to address this report here and all the fog that is happening here today in Parliament at the time of the hearing of the report has been resolved. Years ago, ladies and gentlemen, we also learned from the Finnish people what a quality school system is. The Finns wrote a book about why the Finns are flying longer and are now in the middle of Europe as far as education is concerned. After the international comparison of knowledge, they have the best students any country could want. But we, ladies and gentlemen, can learn from what is happening in our country about democracy at all, about independent journalism, and learn from them about the authorities who do not know how to limit themselves, we can learn about them about the orderly judiciary, not to "strike" and about the trust of the police, which is in Finland. But we know where the police belong. Personally, I believe that the broadcast on Patria in Finland has been made in such a way that the citizens of Finland are aware of what the state-owned company is doing, with certain activities sinking into corruption. Today, after reactions in Slovenia, especially the government, to mention the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, we are under severe pressure on the media, with contempt of Finnish justice, inappropriate comments on the work of the Finnishs by a three-way chaser, and it is certainly true that the Finnish broadcast on corruption is increasingly turning into a show about Slovenia in the National Assembly and in Slovenia. The truth about Patria, who corrupts, is becoming the truth about Slovenia, which, in my opinion, has a response to what is going on here, an immature power that has vague notions of democracy and, as such, clearly sinks into corruption. Mr President Janez Janša, I'm sorry you're not here. You're in so many unexplained affairs that it's no longer normal. But you also react in a way that is not normal. Where else in the world is another prime minister of the state personally suing another prime minister of the country? Where does one prime minister start with his activities and predicts that he will sue another country, Finland? I don't know that. And at the same time, my respectable colleagues, is Mr. Janez Janša, who spoke to us here and looked us in the eye, really a credible person? Let's take a look at the Mercator case. At first, he didn't know anything about this meeting, he didn't know anything, he didn't say anything. Now his closest associates are saying that the meeting was and that they were there trying to ensure a political influence on the media. You said that people would live better if you introduced a single tax rate. Is there something wrong with her? No, no, no. He had to relax on the pressure of the public. Are we open on Sundays, ladies and gentlemen? How much money was involved in this referendum, how much we've been listening to here. Is that done? It's not like that. But most of all, ladies and gentlemen, from the Prime Minister, who must have been given all the honor of his office, it seems to me to be the bizarre place of Tony Blair's speech, for which the Prime Minister received the beans of the year and did not even justify the theft to Blair, nor did he return this unjustifiable bean. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the essence of our policy, and through this we find that there is certainly no credible figure in our political space, Mr Prime Minister. You can trust me that in my speech and performance I would certainly not touch past weapons, but I have been challenged by the distinguished Mr Janez Janša. I have a degree in mathematics, and I don't have to graduate from arms, but I could be a doctor, so many things I know. In no democratic country, ladies and gentlemen - see how Finland has now reacted - would you not have read the Prime Minister of Matthew Frangesha's book, "what can you do" -? - that I wouldn't respond to that and answer that it was a lie. I, Mr. Prime Minister, expect from you because you personally labeled me and said that I did nothing when I led this committee, you publicly admitted - look at the March 2000 Youth - it was cash! You've had press conferences, you've told people you'll tell them where this cash is. Did you do something? Nothing. The book blames you. Come now when you talk to us and look us in the eye, in front of people, journalists, call them and tell us how much this cash was, what it was used for and where this cash is now. The state and taxpayers don't have one. And there's something at the end that I won't be too long. If we are indeed a legal country and if everything is so beautiful and clean and not only guilty of some poor Squeak and poor Moja, which we have been debated by John Janša, then open these files if there is anything in your pants that is written about the arms affairs and let people see for themselves where the truth is. Hiding the truth under the rug and always accusing only colleagues of being incapable of doing nothing, you know, for a credible person and a person who is supposed to lead a democratic country is not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will begin by saying that blurred eyes and clogged ears, Mr Cernač, as you said at the outset today, are not the result of hatred, as you thought, but because of political blindness, which is characterized by the disease of arrogant authority and even more arrogant authorities. And today, there were a lot of such categories of authorities in the National Assembly. That's why I'm telling you, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, what I said yesterday: Are you insane? Fourteen days of intense 24 hours a day you spit and slap everything we've done about this affair, like you call Patricia, and with connections to Finnish television. In the end, everyone concludes by giving consensual protection in the national interest of the institution of the President of the Government. Are you really crazy? As with you who are, I will not use the word corrupt, but also rude, that then, of course, you always ask of us, and today you three have said it, headed by the Prime Minister of the Government who had his own exposition. Therefore, once again, as I did yesterday, I vigorously reject all lies, all deceptions, all insinuations that Social Democracy from Slovenia is in this "thing" which you put on, however involved and involved. None of this holds what you said. And if you're already talking about our colleague Brickle, who's supposed to be on this TV, nine citizens from Slovenia were performing, and they're from the government, too, and you don't talk about them. On the same show! When you're always talking about my colleague, you're talking about Erjavec, and there's someone else about Bavčar, and then, of course, there's going to be an equal debate. That is why you are abusing this, so today we are witnessing another abuse of the legislative branch of power by the ruling coalition, just before the elections, which will be in two weeks' time. It is the already tested and seen method of the government coalition, in particular the SDS, which, with the politicization and eternal storytelling of the conspiracy stories, seeks to clear up all the problems and all the questions that it has put on the table in particular and that we should discuss policy and policy before the elections on 21 September. Thus, one of the discerning political analysts and commentators, who, following the meeting of the National Assembly last November 17th in this Chamber when we discussed the confidence of the Government, wrote after the final tour of the Prime Minister that the theme of this year's election campaign would be the war against the tycoons. And as we can see, it is true, only that it is the postal collectors and the parking of shares of target companies that are not valid in this case, but it is the cash that slips out and bypasses these collectors and flows directly into the pockets of individuals. And these individuals are not so poor. So, in these cases, arms deals are also about fighting the tycoon political ties that have been selling out criminal acts for almost two decades to hunters throughout the national fabric, and are shamelessly rich, as noted by the Tacoons by the Prime Minister of the Government on 17 November 2007 in this Chamber. It also reinforces the assessment of the same Prime Minister of the Government four years ago that, in such frauds and thievery, except in some isolated cases, individuals from or close to government policy are usually involved and that they are seen at a distance of a hundred kilometres, that someone from the hen is stealing chickens, the police, and the prosecution are nothing. I completely agree with him. The words he uttered in this hall four years ago are still valid today and are being discussed today. Therefore, of course, there is still a legitimate question if we in the National Assembly at the end of 2006 have challenged the mediator Rotis, why he is needed in this business, then today or in the last month we have learned that there is, in addition, a whole set of individuals who are at this commission table on which the taxpayers' tax money is paid by Slovenian taxpayers. It is not true that you do not know these names that appear in public, the Prime Minister and you of the coalition species. The meeting of the National Assembly was mentioned several times in May 1998. Prime Minister and former Member Jože Zagozhen were the main speakers all day long and explained, by documenting and incriminating all these individuals, of whom we are talking today. My question is. If these thieves were incriminated for these people ten years ago, how is it possible that these same people are in this business today when it comes to the most transparent arms purchase business in Slovenia. And these people showed up in that story. Finally, in view of my limited time, I have to say no to my colleagues, which is a report prepared by the police regarding the international cooperation sector. It is necessary to highlight the reaction of the Director of Police, who has ordered extraordinary supervision of the sector's work, on the grounds that it is to be determined who is responsible for the fact that last year's dispatch was founded, because it is absolutely, I have to say with my words, totally rude work and misdirection. Why? Because the international cooperation sector is not an operational body. And the way and logic, you have to believe that I've come to know in four years what I am on this committee, is that, of course, the operational body for this is the criminal police. That is why, of course, my logical question: When was the dispatch from Vienna accepted and transmitted to the leadership of the criminal police, which is the operational body, as is the case with all other cases? What did the leadership of the criminal police do about this dispatch? However, if we took the possibility that someone had set up the dispatch, it was a notable fact that when they later found it and responded to it, which is the 19th of May of this year, according to a police report, the top of the police would have to react and find out why there was a cover-up or loss of the dispatch. No, no, no. The director of police ordered only four months later. When? After the TV show in Finland. No comment. I conclude and you can't convince me not to exercise my right to suspect that someone in this country is concerned that the police are politicized and instrumentalized. Someone gave it, and that's my suspicion that things are slowing down, slowing down so that epilogues won't get there so fast. This is the politicisation and instrumentalisation of police species.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Chernač has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Kumer, I do not know where I have been talking about the fact that the Social Democrats are at the back of this matter and that I have accused anyone of it. I went through the magnetograms of what I said again, but I can't find it. But I was talking about responsibility. That's something you've been talking about, especially in the last month. I have talked about the responsibility of the policy, in particular the responsibility of the opposition parliamentary groups in the case of unfounded accusations by the Prime Minister of the Government, which are also relevant in the international public. And I was talking about how the responsible opposition should act in such a case. I am pleased that you have met in the words of blurry eyes, clogged ears, and that you have drawn the right connotation, that these blurred eyes and clogged ears are the result of political arrogance. That's what I was talking about at the defense committee yesterday. That's right. And here I have been talking about a specific case and specific accusations that were made some year ago by a colleague of yours who is now not in the Chamber, as many times as not, the Social Democrat, the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Rope, who has been vehemently accusing Prime Minister Janez Janša of negotiating incidents in the Gulf of Piransk before the 2004 elections with Mr Sanader. In a similar way, with a similar scenario as this story is now going on, with the same connotation. The claims were not made in any way. And even after a year when it was necessary, I don't know how many sessions, some people couldn't admit the truth. That's what I'm talking about. I regret that there is no Mr. Potts in the hall, he's probably listening. After four years, I would only expect him to know my last name, Mr. Potsch. I respect you as a man. I believe I'm only one of you in the '90s. Black, not Black. It was said that it would be too much time to explain by Mr Potrč all the untruths and insults that have been said in this debate. At the beginning I spent about 15 minutes of 35, I am happy to leave you with 20 minutes, explain everything that lies on your soul and that you cannot explain at the time it is set for you. You have a problem that you have nothing to explain, as did Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, a fellow member of the Parliamentary Group, who was bent on not having enough time, and now no one from the Zares Group, despite the fact that they still have time to talk, does not sit in this parliamentary room, where they have the place, because people have chosen them to do so. I think it shows one duality and who and how things are politicized. This intervention by Mr Gantar cannot help much either, unfortunately [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, I'll give you my 20, too, Mr. Gantar, no problem. The link between the Social Democrats and the Finnish Social Democrats was a speech, you said it yourself. True, a good year ago, the situation was similar. Even a good year ago, not only did this robbery have its slanderous implications on the internal political scene, but we know that a party in Croatia was very aggressive in power and that this affair had similar political consequences not only in Slovenia but also in the neighbouring country. But at the end of the day, it's essential to us. It is essential for us that this accusation has prevented normal communication between countries on all those open issues that could already be agreed upon by the State. The decision on innocence should be made by the competent authorities, but not by the corrupt majority in the National Assembly, is a quote by Mr Potrč. The innocent should be decided by the competent authorities, yes, that's what we've been talking about. And it goes on, not a corrupt majority in the National Assembly. This is obviously a new face, and this is again some new policy of Social Democracy, please. These are accusations that are not worthy of the National Assembly. It's a grave accusation. And I'd ask nicely, let's stay on some level, talk about things that are important. Mr. Anderlich, by his old habit, threw away what was said at the beginning. Things are public and they're published, and I even showed from the STA note from two years ago, 12. 6th publication by the Ministry of Defence of the election of Patria, 12. 6th, and 17th. 6. publication at the STA that the requirements for the resignation of the Minister of Defence in this connection and the problems arising in this regard have been addressed by the SDS in the world. It is normal for a political party responsible for the situation in their country to respond to such things perfectly normally. It is abnormal, however, Mr Anderlič and Mr Školč, to say what you say and what you said yesterday that we have dealt with this matter before a public decision was made on who was chosen because yesterday you claimed that the decision on who was chosen was known only in December 2006 when the contract was signed. That's right. However, negotiations took place for six months. I don't want to remind you how you, when you were in power, signed a 36-wave contract for 8 billion. In the 40 days without invitation to tender, with an invitation sent on the one hand, only one tenderer, Systemic technique, and with an offer received on the four sides, where there was no talk of warranty deadlines, not of accurate supplies, nothing. Within 40 days from the moment the letter came from the MORS, until the moment the contract with all the seals had already been signed. These are the facts. As far as this is concerned, I think it is right that you do not abuse these things again, because I think it is wrong and I do not want to explain them anymore, because I am already a few times and we are wasting valuable time needlessly to discuss what is the purpose of today's session. Again, the matter relating to when it was decided that eight-wheelers were to be procured was adopted when it was said, "The government adopted the programme in autumn 2005 and on this basis there was an invitation to tender" and so on. That's right. Of course he does. However, Mr Anderlič, before that, another government, chaired by Mr Rop, first sold the Systemic Technique for Viator&Vector's Reliable Price, had already concluded a 36-wave deal for 8 billion, sent an express resolution to the National Assembly, which was adopted in July 2004, and in one month signed, the Systemic Technique is now privately owned, co-owned by Viator&Vector and Austria's Steyr, a "letter of interior" for 8x8. For 8x8, gentlemen, not 6x6! No invitation to tender. No public tender. Nothing! And why has this "letter of intention", which we have heard today from Minister Erjavac, that the state has been sued for €5.6 million in damages by Viator&Vektor, not come to reality? Because of the change of power and because she said, "The end is with this kind of business!" Therefore, in 2005, the Government adopted appropriate acts on the basis of which the Ministry of Defence published a public tender; the 8th was forwarded, 5 of them responded, the documentation was raised, 2 submitted an offer, and on this basis chose the most favourable. It's not like the Ministry of Defense has chosen to make an offer. 8-5-2. But it's not a matter for the Ministry of Defense to decide. And where is the logic here that you are saying that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia has chosen Rotis as its provider?Oh, my God! It had no influence in this procedure. It was the tender on which the tenders were submitted. That is also why I do not understand these points by some - "Our client has nothing in this story." No customer in this story has anything to do with it. All the parties represented in this National Assembly took part in the adoption of decisions which allowed the Ministry of Defence to implement an international call for proposals. But I know, Mr. Anderlich, that it was different in your time. It was then possible to get both unnecessary car stickers and falcons under confidential public orders, where there was no international tender. Interesting. Miraj is called that company; I don't know if it still exists; who got this deal and falcon. These were the procedures you carried out when you took responsibility for the management and management of this country. The talk was on the part of, I think, the same discusser, including the same actors in 1991, about confirmed cash transactions. I think that Mr Moge was also talking about this issue, which he had been investigating for quite some time, and I finally hear that he is relying on some literature, some books. I wonder how he hasn't written it yet, given the experience he has. But nothing. Look, gentlemen, you haven't been able to prove anything during this period. At the time I was chairman of the commission of inquiry, I got some material in my mailbox. It was very itchy for me to use it in this process when I presided over the Commission. And I have to tell you that now that I'm listening to this, my fingers are itching more and more, even though it's marked with a very strict degree of secrecy to reveal it. But I think it's a good idea to make it public after September 21st. In it, gentlemen, there are conclusions that are not in your best interests and that deny these insinuations that you keep talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich responded to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u60	Only three things. Of course I have it, I quoted yesterday's opinion of the Government, and you have it, where it is clearly written by Mr Podalič that you accepted this National Assembly in 2005. And that's just the way it is. You have a document. As far as intermediaries are concerned, Patria said, "At the request of the Ministry of Defence, we have chosen to mediate Rotis." And the third thing is, for me, Director Patrie's statement is enough. Yeah, well, I don't have anything else to do with it. Moreover, Mr Črnkovič's statements in the public media that they have connected with the Finns. Finally, Mr. Chernač, the Defence Committee can only be 27. - Don't be a clown, Minister, here! - On 27 June of the same year, when you discussed the matter with the authorities of the party a week earlier, the committee, as the supervisor of the defence system, was able to take note of this decision. It was only ten days after we had read this, that you had already come to know it, that the committee could discuss it. Do you think that's normal? I have never participated in any treaty, and Members of the past ten years have never been involved in any business in any particular way as you are doing now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! The question before asked is, "Are you normal?" I'm going back to the other side. Otherwise, I would like to talk to you about the media's relationship, the policy that has re-entered into this Patria affair. In this affair, many media and media theorists began to explain how Finnish television, public television in Finland, is a credible television. And they also drew a single conclusion that this journalist reporting on this public television was a credible person. Even for the Vič-Holmec affair, remember, the first one brought it to the ÖRF plan - and also ÖRF was once considered to be a credible television, I think it still applies, but in this case Holmca is this credibility of a serious principle. Even when watching and reading this contribution on Finnish television, there are many shortcomings, a lot of slemparacy, which is the credibility of this journalist by his own delusion. The main issue in all of this is evidence. This evidence is simply not available, the journalist has not submitted it and has pleaded as if it were protecting a journalist's source. That's not true, it's a big mess, the evidence is one thing, and protecting a journalist's source is another. I published several facsimiles myself in my press career, including some documents, including confidential material, for example in the case of money laundering in Novi KBM, but I never published my source, even when I was interrogated in Slovenia by Slovenian police administration criminals. Nor would it be necessary for the Finnish journalist to issue this source, but he could have attached a facsimile transfer, and he could have submitted all the documents available to him, unfortunately he did not do so. Of course, it is not enough for a journalist to use three, four resources in his work to use the resources of three Milans, Milan Cvikla, Milan Schweiger, perhaps Milan Kučan. This is certainly not enough, for John Janša, who finally drew such a conclusion, should at least ask him for an opinion. It's just a basic civilisational and basic journalistic maxim that they didn't stick to in this case. But this story, this alleged bribery in the case of Patrie, could have been reversed. What if we asked ourselves: Was it possible to give bribes to those who had published the story? Even in the press office, bribes are not rare. Journalists are not immune to this, nor are politicians. And in the world’s press practice, there are cases of journalists getting paid not to publish a story and then get a lot of money for it. Of course, there are also cases where journalists have received a fine reward for publishing or discrediting a story. It's a discredit. That's what we're talking about here today. Milan Kučan was mentioned, who spoke more than a decade ago in Novi Gorica about how all means were allowed to defeat the enemy, first of all discredits, which could also be followed by liquidations, including physical ones. Borut Pahor addressed a letter to his members these days and invited them, among other things, to quote: "In order for us to succeed this undertaking, we will need the general mobilisation of all available forces." I repeat, Borut Pahor is calling for the general mobilisation of all available forces. We ask why the mobilisation of all available forces and what resources will be used. Discretions or liquidations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President. Buddy Friday, not one, not the other, don't be afraid, it'll be a fair political fight [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] To continue and calm down, please, your colleagues, Mr President-respected. At the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on Friday, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I expressed my disagreement with the meeting on the purchase of eight-wheelers for the Slovenian Army and the Patria affair at the height of the pre-election campaign, ahead of the national elections. We are therefore against the call of this meeting, because it is a matter of politicisation of the matter, to protect the good name of the President of the Government. The meeting and ministers with the Prime Minister of the Government will therefore have the most time available to discuss and thus receive a free advertising term on national television, and we are also strongly protesting this today. The material for today's session is not adequately prepared and it is extremely lacking that I am not talking about the fact that the agenda item has nothing to do with the material we have received. We got some kind of news clip from 10 years ago and a magnetogram of Finnish television shows about Patria's affair. The text of the point is also meaningless and does not have anything to do with the material we received. The proposed conclusions also show that the initiators of the meeting do not distinguish what parliamentary democracy is and what the role of the various branches of government is in modern parliamentary democracy. It is absurd that in the highest representative body and legislative body of the Republic of Slovenia we will be engaged in some television broadcast of Finnish national television. I do not know the case in recent history that the ruling coalition of one of the countries of the European Union would convene an extraordinary meeting of the national Parliament, in the midst of a hot election campaign, and at the head of the government to discuss the content of a television broadcast and the foreign minister to share diplomatic notes as hot pre-election bunnies. You are no longer interested in the province, in which you even held a referendum and spent more than three million euros. You are no longer interested in the development theme, which is crucial for the way Slovenia will go after these elections. In order to maintain power, you are even able to abuse the National Assembly for your pre-election plans. We lost the right time for the debate before the parliamentary holidays, and during the regular part of the National Assembly, when we could consider the commission of inquiry report on this subject, in a coalition to support the debate in the National Assembly, you abolished the investigative commission on the purchase of eight-wheelers for the Slovenian Army, for which we have deducted almost EUR 300 million of taxpayer money, as one of the rare tools available to the opposition. The President of the Government and the coalition, as they have done in this mandate several times, have planned a free advertising campaign on national television, but this time even in the middle of a pre-election campaign, where the pharmacy weighs the same dose for all participants. Today, however, the government coalition has its 680 minutes of announced time for discussion available for 485 minutes and the opposition has barely 180 minutes of time to discuss. So today’s meeting is nothing more than a simple pre-election meeting, which was so widely measured by the ruling coalition. There has never been such a dirty campaign, said Prime Minister Janez Janša. I agree with this, especially if we look at the content of those 700,000 copies of the Express and the Slovenian Week, which are distributed every week in Slovenia and in which carefully chosen opposition policies and opposition MPs and all those who are not in the current authorities are being spat. At the same time, the President of the Government also called on us to stop the debate on Patria. Yes, come on, well, why have you called an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject and made more than two thirds of the time available for discussion. I have already proposed a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly to adjourn the debate or to convene the meeting, but I have been voted on in a smooth and very fast manner. We leave the affair to the Finnish and Slovenian investigative authorities and to the wrong policy of the wasteful purchases of weapons to the new composition of the National Assembly. EUR 287 million for eight-wheelers, for weapons, represents a multi-annual budget for culture throughout the country. We prefer to spend the rest of the pre-election time to confront development concepts so that people will know on September 21st who to trust to lead the country in the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I must say, I was surprised when they offered me the Ministry of Defence's leadership, and I was expecting another department, given that I was dealing with justice. However, I must say, on the one hand, I am happy to be Minister of Defence, because I have actually been under attack every day for three years and if I were not Minister of Defence, it would be difficult to defend myself against all these attacks, so it is good that I am Minister of Defence. Why did I start with such an introduction? Because these attacks are unfounded all the time, based on deception, and I don't know what. For example, today I read in Del: "Dr. Milan Schweiger answers Karl Erjavac: "There is no wave behind the brake." And he says, "Dr. Milan Schweiger, this one was very ill-willed yesterday, even more incisive than ever, and he said he wouldn't make a stupid statement about Erjavce. The Minister is obviously in serious trouble and has to come up with something new every day that's burdensome for Systemic Technology. I will no longer respond to his lies, because it does not matter because the Minister will only be for two more weeks," said Mr Schweiger. Look, we had a meeting with Dr. Milan Schweiger on 19 March 2008 regarding the resolution of a systemic error. And the system technique recognises a systemic error on the vehicles of wave 6x6 on the parking brake displacement element. Correction, parking brake processing shall be performed on all vehicles of wave 6x6. The signature, on the one hand, is Dr. Milan Schweiger; it is a shame that the camera will not be able to record this; and, of course, the representatives of the Ministry of Defence. And that kind of deception has been going on for three years. He used to be a fine example of Ambassador Anderlich, and I went by him to show him the document. Unfortunately, it's in English. I know he doesn't speak English. At least that's what they say. But it's right here. When we asked if he really had Rotis d.o.o. All the legal basis for Patrie's representation in Slovenia, we received a reply that Rotis is their representative or their representative for the territory of Slovenia. And all the time, I've been explaining this for the past year, I've been explaining this for two years, but it's been said that we've named or we've demanded that Rotis be an agent. That's a clean lie. And you know, if someone signs up for a public invitation or a call for a confidential nature, we can't choose who will sign up, but it's everyone's freedom. And this is where Rotis applied on the basis of the representation that Patricia gave him. And I don't know why there's always talk about some interlocutors in this business. It's the same with System Technology. I told you in the introduction. And that's how it happens all the time. It's good that the minister has good nerve, that he's quite calm, even sometimes he tells a joke, but sometimes it's a little hard to listen to all this -- so much deception, so much lies. And I ask, where is that document about these bribes now? We heard Member Really when she was talking in general - bribes there, here I am, there. I don't know where. She even named names. I'm hoping she won't be sued because I don't believe there are those documents. Especially because of such banal things as purely normal brakes on waves 6x6, we see that it is a matter of misleading the Slovenian public. And by the top representative of System Technology, Dr. Schweiger. We could hear how insulting he was.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u67	Thank you. On behalf of the proposaler, Mr Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I don't think it's a well-distorted thing to represent, because then the essence of the matter is blurred. It has been said that there is no more widespread case in the European Union for someone to convene a session of Parliament on some charges in some media. I don't know that. But it's probably not. Do you know the case in the European Union that some media would accuse the prime minister of a country of accepting bribes without evidence? [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] And there wouldn't be any response to that. [[...]] We heard about the case years ago, but the response was significantly different than it was here. About the investigative commission 8x8. The investigative committee 8x8 had this accident that the president was named as he was. Gradually, he was abandoned by members of the commission. First Mr. Rezman, then Mr. Sok. If another member had left the Commission, the Commission would no longer be able to do its work. And she does not claim to have been unable to complete it because a request was made for the President to be heard. The request for a hearing by the President shall be a legitimate requirement in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and Rules of Procedure. And he who proposed to the Commission was obliged to propose a second president without delay. And if I did so immediately, the report that you now say is already written could also be considered in this National Assembly. You can't put that responsibility on us. I also talked once about what should be found in this report. It was supposed to be impossible to confirm, not deny any suspicion. This is not intended for an investigative commission. The Commission of Inquiry is intended to complete the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for me, too! I didn't sign this meeting myself for simple reasons. [[...]] [[Mrs. Irgle, what's wrong? ..../Advertisement from the bench.]] I do not think that the proposed conclusions will actually help to resolve the problem for which today's meeting is convened. The reason for this is the broadcast of Finnish television and the content of the conclusions relates mainly to the procurement process, namely, the weapons spoken of for more than a week. I do not think that there will be any new citizens and citizens who will not be able to understand from today's debate. However, if we were to do so, I would have felt that, for example, the first decision would have to be taken by the National Assembly when it was found that something was wrong with the procedure. However, since this has not been established, I feel that this decision is unnecessary, and I have nothing against it. Since it has not been established so far that anything would have been wrong, I do not think it is necessary for the National Assembly to conclude on something that no body has so far identified any irregularities regarding the procedure. Also, the second conclusion, if we find that the State Prosecutor's Office and the Slovenian police do not act intensively on the investigation of various suspicions, then it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to adopt such a decision. However, I do not think that this decision actually harms, but at the same time it does not benefit, given that I think that such a state prosecutor's office and the Slovenian police act normally and in accordance with the powers they have, in accordance with the laws they have. The third decision, which partly relates to the content of the broadcast, raises here a question of my opinion as a Member, how to fully and in accordance with my conscience support such a decision if I am not allowed to look into the entire treaty we are talking about. As a member of the National Assembly, I have no insight into this. Things don't make sense here. However, I must say that in this case I must listen to the representatives of the Government, specifically the Minister of Defence, who is responsible for implementing the legislation, in this case also to carry out the business or to carry out the business. Now I'd like to comment on these two things, one is the procedure, the other is what the media is writing. As far as procedure as I'm concerned, I don't see any problem. However, as a Member, I would expect, and it would seem logical for the President of the Government to give his consent to the conclusion of such a great deal, which means such a large item in the budget. The President of the Government is responsible for the work of the Government, is responsible for the implementation of the budget, and here I feel that, without any need, the President of the Government is actually distanced from what ministers decide and do at such crucial moments. That's why I wouldn't think anything wrong if I gave my consent. On the part of the Minister of Defence, I would expect, in the course of this debate, always precise and consistent explanations, particularly regarding the so-called competitive or corruption clause. In my opinion, he could have been clearer from the beginning, I think he was too general, and then he looked like he was being complemented and he was being repaired. I think that in such cases, when an affair opens up, it is good to be clear, precise at the first moment, and I think that this also shortens the debate. With regard to the show that appeared on Finnish television, I think that the National Assembly today with this debate cannot undo this broadcast now, the consequences have been made. The consequences are certainly not good for the good voice of our country and the President of the Government. Of course, the question is what was the purpose of this show. We've heard a lot of explanations. I hope that this broadcast was not intended for anyone else and was in fact Slovenia or the President of the Government and some here only used as a means for some other purposes that were not originally intended for Slovenia. But Slovenia may, as an estimated weak article, have been used to, as I said, solve or display problems that someone else has, perhaps not in our country. I don't want to be more specific here, but there's a lot of explanation for this show. The simplest thing is that the media need a story and the purchase of weapons is always a good story, that on the basis of the assumptions, an interesting story is launched into the public and the journalist comes into his own account, as well as Finnish television, which I have never heard before about Slovenia, at least not just in this affair. This is where I get questions about where the boundaries of the media space are. In Slovenia, in fact, we are already used to anyone being able to write and report anything. In particular, I can say about our client, there is no matter about our President that we would not be talking about, and I must say that we have already gotten used to it somehow. However, such a situation is not normal. But when that happens abroad, the matter has a broader context, and then we become a little more sensitive. And I think that, based on this story, we can ask ourselves a little bit more at the international level, how does the media space also shape the attitude towards politics and also the attitude towards power in general. Given the situation in the European Union, this is not the best moment. We would urgently need this moment, if not because of the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is supposed to connect the European Union, including the participation of the media space and the lack of confidence among individual members at any level. From this point of view, I therefore assess that the broadcast broadcast broadcast on Finnish television was in great harm to the whole of the European Union, even because the President of the Government was mentioned in the context of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. In this respect, I would also expect Finnish television to apologize to the European public and also to the Slovenian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. After this debate, which we are listening to today mainly by the opposition Members, we can say that it is a diversion of attention from the topic that has actually returned to them as a boomerang. First of all, at the execution of Mr Potræ, when he presented the position of the Group of Social Democrats, he said that it was the Slovenian Democratic Party's structure, that we had prepared it so that it could now be spoken before the elections. On the other hand, we listen to the Social Democrats talk about the fact that they really want a criminal investigation to come to an end. And now you really have to agree in your parliamentary group, one speaking like that, and the other speaking like that, that people will continue to believe in you. From all these recent developments, I can say that the Commission of Inquiry, in which I participated and was its Vice-President, has been launched and set up for some reason. The reason for this commission to be set up is, in my opinion, the preparation of the ground for this big bang that took place a few days ago. The Commission of Inquiry has indeed gathered all the documentation we have requested. We have heard 14 witnesses, and none of the witnesses, any of the witnesses we have heard, have confirmed the allegations that Mr. Squeakl has always spoken about, mainly him, in the media. The key witness, Brigadier Bavčar, who, in the closed part of the meeting, denied all the arguments and documents of all the statements referred to by Mr Svikl, this was not taken into account in the report he prepared, nor was the case mentioned in the words. And that's bad. This report, which he prepared and also presented at the press conference, speaks of the fact that they cannot contradict the suspicion that it was a negotiation in this business. But you can't confirm it either. And from this now, after all these events that have happened, I can truly say that it seems to me that this was really a polygon that was preparing for this big bang. But at this point we must be concerned mainly about the reputation of Slovenia, the reputation of Slovenia in the world that we have created with the six-month Presidency of the European Union. In the halftime show, all this work and all that was done well was evaluated in half an hour. There you go! In my opinion, political interests. I said something to the Defence Committee yesterday, and I have sometimes been critical of Slovenian journalists when they published things from this investigative commission that I did not fully agree with, but after what happened in Finland right now, I can say that our journalists are good, but they are real elsewhere, now I will say ugly, but corrupt. Because this is actually a structure that is aimed at the President of the Government and a structure that is aimed at the Slovenian Democratic Party. Look, as Vice-President of this commission of inquiry, I also received anonymous letters threatening me to stop dealing with this matter, to have any of it. Now that this campaign was launched, last week I was struck down - I don't know who - three jumbo posters and on every billboard it was written that I was a thief, it was written on the President, and we split the bribe. But look what this means - it means that it has really been caught up among people. And that's not good. And if I now read Mr Borut Pahor's letter: "To succeed this feat, we will need a general mobilisation of all available forces." I don't want to guess who did this to me, but it just feels like we're going too far this time. Moreover, speaking in this broadcast, generally without evidence, is an expression of corruption, malice, deplorableness, and total spiritual inadequacy. If it's not me, neither will you - that's what's coming out of it. And this seems immature and particularly irresponsible to me, of course, from those who produce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u73	Thank you. I saw two hands. First, Mr. Potts, but I didn't understand that you were appointed. Did you want a replica? [[...]] [[Ad in the background, incomprehensible.]] I didn't hear you name him? [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] Well, Mr. Potch. Here you go. Let's take note that you were appointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Because I have a chance to talk. First of all, Mr. Chernach's apology for mislabelling. If you really gave me 20 minutes, I wouldn't spend all 20 minutes talking specifically about all the unfounded charges at the expense of the Social Democrats that have been made today. Now I'm only gonna say two, three things. First. If it is said that writing or publishing shows on Finnish television is a conspiracy of the Social Democrats, then it is a lie not on your part, the whole context of today's session speaks about it, then it is a lie and then such a claim is broken. Second. That you think so, Mr. Horvath. Look at this. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I'd still be wrestling. How else would the darkness come back like boomerang to us if we didn't get it out in public? [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] Does it make any sense? Does it make any sense?Oh, my God! If you're saying she came back like a boomerang, then we've put her in public, then we've launched her into Finnish television, then we're glad that Finnish television has released it. It is, ladies and gentlemen, stupidity and I only expect you to quote my words once and say that I have said it, even though the context is completely different. Nice to meet you. How can you accuse President Pahor without any evidence that he ordered Squill to act against the Defence Minister and disable you and the Prime Minister of the Government? How can you say that?Oh, my God! Do you have any evidence to prove that? How can you say that he ordered Ambassador Robb to speak against the Prime Minister of the Government? How can you claim to be mobilisation, which means engaging all available forces? [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] I know, but what's wrong with writing that?Oh, my God! [[...]] All Social Democrats want in order to defeat the Democrats [[SDS]] . God help you, don't you think?Oh, my God! Are you not eager to defeat us? And that's why they need to mobilize all forces. And you know it, you know it, and you say something dirty. What Mr Kučan's statements were during the interview; not you [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] What Mr Kučan's statements were at the Borut Pahor's parliamentary evening, regarding the then active policy, which you, the Democrats, also stated, is that this policy is based on first being discredited and then other resources are used. [[...]] He did not claim this to be his policy, and it would be appropriate for us to get used to it once so that you do not reverse the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u76	Mr. President. Members and Members of Parliament. I suggest we stay within the legal framework. In view of the particulars cited here, Mr President, I propose that you close the meeting to the public. People quote parts of the report that are marked "internal". People here quote here the parts of the report that are marked "internal". At the outset, we proposed an extension of the materials for today's session. Or let the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdraw the level of confidentiality from the contract. If you have gone so far, gentlemen, that you are prepared to violate Slovenian data confidentiality legislation, then let the Government give you an appropriate commitment. Today, a document was cited here, signed by John Janša between 1991 and 1994, bearing the designation "State Secret". It's top secret." It's gone. He was quoted by Mr. Pache. Here, gentlemen are now quoting documentation that has the right marking. Determine, or do you really want to use all the means to win the so-called win? But you can't go past the next one. That this business is problematic. Because for this business, someone, as he admitted on public television, received a poor million counterservice fees. What kind of counterservices, gentlemen? My procedural proposal, Mr President. You're the president of the National Assembly. If you want Members and Members here not to constantly violate the laws and three times the denied entitlement of the tenderer, you must do so. Otherwise, you, as President of the National Assembly, allow us to go here, not a campaign, but a grave violation of the existing Slovenian legislation and you who think you can say anything, just afford it. When I was questioned last week by Slovenian police officers in this National Assembly, there were military police officers around this National Assembly if I accidentally violated a document. Mr. Secretary, that's the way it is. Please, I suggest you, Mr. President. It's your responsibility. You're on the move. If you don't do this, then I'll start operating on documents that are also in the basement of this National Assembly and we'll talk about it. Therefore, I suggest that you do this in order not to discuss again in these Slovenian media in the Slovenian public space what Members were empowered to take over against the signing of the documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, I didn't know which documents were quoted. Otherwise, I'd turn off the microphone. Because I'm really asking, as far as this is concerned, it's a big mistake and please refrain from quoting documents that are marked "Trust." That's one. Do you also have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I simply oppose and reject Mr Squeak's claims that I have spoken of things which are confidential, which are marked "Internal". He presented the conclusions himself, at a press conference with Mr Mohet and Mrs Cveto Zalokar Orazem. The conclusions he wanted to make in the final report were presented by himself at the press conference, and I only took them and I did not speak at all about any matters of a confidential nature. But if I said that Mr. Bavcar was defiant, I didn't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u79	So, I think it's possible to ask Members to be aware of what confidential documents mean and, as long as they prove themselves later, which can turn out to be a magnetogram and, of course, I trust that you will stick to it. It's Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I must say that I strongly protest against Mr Cwickel's statement that the military police were supposed to be moving around here at the time you had a conversation with representatives from Finland. I can prove it because the Chief of Staff checked it out and found that the military police were not in the vicinity of Parliament at the time. Again, it's one of those things that I've already mentioned, something gets involved, it's misleading, and so on. But I can prove it with a document. We'll write a report for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Drofenik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. I will say that I am not one of those who, without evidence, would unconditionally believe one party or another, and at this point I really do not know whether corruption has occurred or has not occurred in the project or in the business with the Patrias. Military orders are, in my opinion, one of those orders where, when tendering and entering into contracts, it is usually very often behind the signs of "Trust", "Trustly Confidential" and various mysterious technical solutions and inventions. That is why this type of order can always raise doubts about such and other charges and, of course, corruption charges can quickly arise. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we supported the convening of an extraordinary meeting that is precisely why and in the hope that this reference can help to clear the affair more quickly and that I will therefore support the proposed conclusions myself. However, I do not believe that the National Assembly is able to identify any person involved as guilty, nor can it recognize him as innocent. I think so. But this can be done by the authorities in charge of the investigations for the indictment, and in the end the only court can say the word. Regardless of who is involved, if there is any corruption at all, I expect the law enforcement authorities to find the recipients, if they have been accused of it and will justly condemn them. I think it is the Slovenian public that Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. First of all, I'd like to thank the coalition here for calling the meeting. You certainly didn't disappoint me, and you showed your true face. Why didn't you disappoint me? You didn't disappoint me because it was somehow a conclusion that you were afraid to ask certain questions and were in a different situation than we are now, because there would be a burden of conclusions on us. You beat us to it. Just as you tried to outrun us every time, you've gone way too far to cover up certain things. You have also overtaken us in such a way that you have proposed material that is useless in all respects, with the exception of this transcript for the purpose of this meeting. Nor did you disappoint us at that point when all of you, from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the ministers, the Members, I think that there was no Member among them, ensured that there was no dispute that we could reach out to the documents for which we have requested, for the third or fourth time, to obtain them for the purposes of this meeting. You always said, "Of course, we're in," and you always voted against it. This is the kind of method that tries to show a beautiful face on the outside, but you're actually afraid that something might have turned out wrong. There is much talk about the need to guard the dignity of the people of the visa media. I fully agree with this and, of course, in this regard, these accusations are serious and difficult to define. But I would like to remind you that, in fact, free people who are in some way in agreement with your views, in agreement with democracy, who even run campaigns for you, throw up unproven, unsigned claims, lies and everything about their political opponents. A week. It cannot be defended, it cannot be published in accordance with the law of any amendment. Nothing. Even those who have left your species. That's disgusting and disgusting. Maybe you'll have to or maybe you'll have to tell him where the money's from. These freebies don't even have an honest address to look for editors and coworkers. But let's just leave it. I mean, I agree that the dignity of people needs to be respected. But I don't think you care if it's your political rivals or, if you prefer, your opponents. What do you have to say? Also that the other thing is important. That it is necessary to work together for the reputation of the State. I agree, but this meeting in some way, I'll say, it raises a question. If this show of Finnish television started as a broadcast about Patria and her controversial business, and slowly with reactions to this station, I will tell you a story about Slovenia. Certainly this was not the story of Slovenia at first. But the story about Slovenia did not become because of the journalists, because of the structures, because of the political connections you are referring to, and for which I do not see solid evidence myself, and I can say that they are absurd. This is becoming a story about Slovenia due to the reactions of the President of the Government, the ministerial assembly and others to it. Look, it's extremely unusual to go straight to the public television suit, to request an intervention by the government on this television, to require data on the ongoing investigation. We can't have that with us either. In this regard, of course, it is difficult to demand much from the prosecution and others who are investigating it. If Mrs Brezigareva defends here with this argument that, in the interest of the investigation, there is nothing more to say, you and the President of the Government expect the Finnish Prime Minister to provide you with the things they are investigating there. That's what I think, I'm going to say, extremely crazy and strange and a witness to what kind of politics you're advocating. And that is why I care about the reputation of Slovenia, that you simply do not understand certain things here. That there are limits, that there are certain things in which politics cannot be forgotten. Look, I'm going to quote a German newspaper where it hasn't been reflected so far, how it's reflected there. He says: Janša has problems with the Finnish media, the former prime minister of Poland had them with the Germans. The German daily Tagszeitung points to a comparison between the two, since the Kaczynski press compared it with potatoes last year, which he understood as an unprecedented insult and demanded an apology from the German government. The German government, of course, said no, that it had nothing to do with German media. Now Janša demands the same from the Finnish government. The Finnish government did the same thing. She said she had nothing to do with the Finnish media. So much for the similarity of political profiles. It's written like that. And to quote the closing quote on what they say: "We are now living in the EU, Slovenia! Wake up! Wake up! And that's the message that's valid here too, that you just don't go using all the guns to prove yourself right. It has been said that it is not customary, or that it has not happened yet, to accuse anyone of any crime from European countries. This is not a crime with potatoes, of course, but those who follow Italian politics will easily get countless records in our media about what criminal charges must now be defended by the current Prime Minister, Mr Berlusconi. But that's not why, because of the writings in Del, the Journal, maybe some news coverage on TV, I don't remember getting any protest notes from the Italian foreign ministry. I do not recall the Italian Parliament discussing this. And that's, I'll say, the thing that's worth thinking about. I agree that this is a pain in the ass, but it's a pain in everyone, and it's also a pain in the ass when colleague Friday's outstretched, if someone hasn't bribed a Finnish journalist. Do you realize that it is also necessary for such a public claim to have some evidence? Is that why he doesn't have to? [[...]] Let me introduce him. Let's introduce him, let's talk about it. Here you are talking about the fact that it is here, I will say, a combination of two political parties and that this has been cooked by the European Social Democrats. Do you have proof of this if you are asking Finnish television to provide you with evidence? I would ask you to deal with the same criteria yourself - do you have evidence for this, or is this just a way of diverting attention? I agree, this is an electoral fight in some way, but our demands to discuss these transactions are all from the beginning when this deal was concluded and all the time, and by this end, you have done everything that would not be possible to get documents on these things and even today we could not get them. So much for your readiness to clean up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Some inaccurate claims were made. I think it's right not to stay on the air. It is interesting, however, that despite the fact that several times the allegations that are incorrect are explained, and now I do not know whether the LDS, really, SD are in fact poorly hearing or abusing the situation in this House with these questions. Today it has already been explained here and in the preceding days and the media have already written about this, what you have just said, Mr Školč, is not true. Don't hold it. I'm sorry. You said the government's intervention in public television was required. That our government demanded an intervention by the Finnish government on public television. This has never been done by our government, and this has been publicly denied, and I believe that you, who are consistent and read it all, have also read it. No one has asked the Finnish government to interfere with the work of the media. Nobody. In the first note, Slovenia called on the Finnish Government, given that it is a state-owned company, Patria owns 70% of the Finnish state to submit the evidence mentioned in this broadcast because these evidence is in the Finnish company, in this company owned by the Slovenian State. I don't know what request you're talking about. It's not working. I don't know what the freebies are doing here, and I think you've connected them with the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think you're very unfair to abuse the position in the National Assembly for some political agitation that this National Assembly is not intended to do. I can't find your amendments during the proposed amendments to the conclusions. You had a chance to put them in because you complained that you wanted to call this meeting first, and we said we'd beat you to it. Maybe you wanted to call her after September 21st. All these options you have had, and I must say, if it really is you that the story, which was thrown into the public at exactly the moment of position, is not misused at this time for pre-election purposes, then I think we should limit ourselves in such discussions and speak in truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Skolch has reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u88	Thank you very much. First. I've already thanked you for calling the meeting and doing a useful job, and that's why we don't bother. Another time. We have tabled an amendment that you have before you, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that there is an indication that, in concluding and implementing the contract for the purchase of infantry combat vehicles 8 x 8 Patria there has been an irregularity and unjustified payment of commissions and thus damage to public funds, it therefore proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the provisions of the Bond Code with the other party, reach an agreement, not an action, on the finding of nullity of the contract or that the contract be dissolved in agreement. At the same time, we propose, in the light of President Janša's accusations to Mr Mohet, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia propose to the competent authorities that all materials relating to so-called arms transactions withdraw the marks of all levels of confidentiality and make them publicly available to the media and the public." I hope you'll support this now that we've made you happy. And the third time. As far as the requirements for Finnish television are concerned. I understood that the government demanded a correction, that the government demanded even the Patri dish 2 and that the government gave the ultimatum if all of this didn't happen, that you wouldn't know who you were suing. In short, I didn't make anything up. You're forgetting what you should know.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, there's no replica to the replica. Mr Pojbich has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u90	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I am very surprised and also sad that in our own country we have people who want to come to power at all costs and exploit the Slovenian state and, of course, to discredit it in this way before the world public. You've done this, gentlemen, one that you care little about Slovenians and Slovenians, who we've been staring at for centuries at our own country. 17 years ago, we managed to get to our own country. And now those who have constructed this greatest lie in the history of Slovenia and who, in the international public, are profaning the Slovenian state and attacking the Prime Minister of the Government, Janez Janša, without any evidence, I believe, break the foundations of the Slovenian state and, of course, the foundations of all those Slovenians and Slovenians who voted in the plebiscite for their own country. Your Honor, I am absolutely certain that these gentlemen have crossed a threshold this time, which can never be tolerated. Those who love Slovenia must be defended and protected by the foundations of their own country, and I therefore call upon those who have drawn up this structure before the entire Slovenian public and have no evidence of these accusations to withdraw immediately, irrespective of the function or position you are taking in this country. And one more thing seems important to me. I am fully convinced that a few days before the elections of a particular party you do not have the appropriate programmes and are unable to respond to the challenges of the future in terms of running the country and the clear objectives that our country must pursue in the future if it is to achieve prosperity for everyone and everyone. You are therefore trying to instigate the Slovenian political space and the pre-election time when citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia need to answer the questions that affect their future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are able to do this and are working on those points that are important for the future of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, and we are not betting on affairs and incitement. And I must also make it clear that we have clear objectives in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have a clear programme and we love Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. True, this amendment came five minutes ago, which is why in this crowd, which I haven't been able to look at yet, but I have now, and I'm going to talk about its contents later on in the amendments. The main point of the amendment is that, on the basis of the indicators, the contract should be null and void. I don't know if you've studied this amendment very well. I suggest you read again what you wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u93	Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I would like to say right in the introduction that, over the course of the four years of this mandate, we are facing how the ruling coalition will take over national television, how it will take over police control policy, how it will take over control of the functioning of the prosecution, and how, finally, the policy will break down the functioning of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. This is the red nothing of this entire term. There's something else I'd like to remind you of. You are all talking about how Finnish national television has presented these corruptions in connection with the acquisition of Patrij in Slovenia. You forget, however, that this case is also investigated by Finnish police officers or by Finnish criminals. So it's clearly a suspicion of a crime being investigated by Finnish police officers and criminals. Also in Slovenia, it has been reported that we should try to do the same and organise ourselves in Slovenian police and detect these irregularities. For a year and a half, nothing happened in the Slovenian police to be able to talk today about the fact that we have competent data for the debate in the National Assembly. And I'm sorry, it is sad that the Slovenian Government does not have any information on this business, which means that it has or has prevented the operation of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, which is responsible for obtaining information on what is also happening in other countries, and not least what the Intelligence and Security Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia is doing. Was there a government order here that they should not deal with this case? If these agencies and intelligence services were to operate normally, in the rule of law, the President of the Government could have had information before Finnish television published anything about these transactions in Slovenia. Apparently, the government has also banned these services from collecting information on these irregularities. The problem is this: Why is the Slovenian police not investigating this case, why the Slovenian prosecution and the criminal police do not deal with this case so that the National Assembly today has competent data? We do not have any information in Slovenia about this business. I'm sorry, I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Mr. Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's amazing how someone says something, has a report in front of them and makes up what's in this report. Mr. Weber, I'm going to appoint you on purpose so there won't be any misunderstandings about who I'm talking to. You said that the Finnish police are investigating these cases for a year and a half and that the Slovenian police have done nothing. Read the exact report when the Finnish police began operational work. 9. 5th this year and a few days later, she carried out the arrest or detention of two suspects who have already been released and are doing further work. Don't mix the dispatches that the Finnish police didn't send. On the dispatch of the Austrian Interpol, the Finnish police did not respond at all, at least the Slovenian police responded, although with a very large delay, which is not right. Finland hasn't responded in over a year and a half. We're talking about investigations, you know very well that even by the Finnish police you didn't get any operational data on what they were doing, and even by our police you didn't get it and you won't get it. Just like I can't get it until the investigations are completed, the criminal charges filed or the reports filed. The Slovenian police, however, did a number of activities during this time. Read, write everything they did, how many informative interviews there were, how much information was gathering, how much data they had received from foreign police, how much information they had from Finland from Austria, and how they were working with it. Clearly, the details of the operational work do not tell you, but that is logical. The Finnish police don't even tell you what they're doing or what they're doing or what they're not telling you or me. Well, thank God you don't have access to it, not you and not me, at least I hope so. I don't, but I'm not quite sure what's going on. Otherwise, will you allow me to speak, or will you take my word for it? [[...]] [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I don't provoke, I answer the facts when someone was quoting the facts from the report. [[...]] Let him get it right. And then I'll be charged with defending the police again. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I must have said, very likely. [[...]] I know I don't have any. Otherwise, when you say it, you can say it, if you want to, you just have to stand up and say it out loud for the record, not speak in such a way that the public does not hear what you can gladly do. On the other hand, I would like to say, of course, that I strongly oppose the insinuations that have been made by you, honourable Member Weber, and I do not know on the basis of what the Slovenian Government and the ministries or parts of the Government have been preventing investigations in Slovenia. It is clear from the communication that the police have been carrying out activities since this year, this year and this day forward, and it is also clear when the Finnish police started operational activities in Finland. And the Slovenian police have also started operating at about the same time. This is based on this report, but only for a few days there is a difference between the operational beginning of the work of one police and the other. And there's no way [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, there's no anniversary. [[...]] You too could speak out loud, not just whisper so that you can't be heard by citizens and citizens Otherwise, it's absolute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u97	I would ask the Members of the Social Democrats to respect the rules that Mr Mate now has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u98	And, of course, I strongly reject that at any time at the Ministry of the Interior, anyone would have a political impact on what the police should do. I strongly reject this, and in this case at all. And I'm not known as a member of the government to ever order Owls or any other agency not to do anything. These are pure insinuations and, of course, if you think this is different, that there is some evidence for this, then please present them to everyone so that all Members and Members of Parliament can be informed that they will know and that the public will know about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Weber, did you report to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, look, Finnish investigators are very clear about the fact that when you were provided with confidential information, like the Slovenian police, you provided this confidential information to the public and thereby damaged the research in Patria's bribery affair. It is very clear in a notice that the Finnish crime police made public. This is the document I referred to. As for your operational activities in the interrogation. Yes, you were questioning those who warned of irregularities in the purchase of Patri. You started questioning these, not those who were supposed to be involved in the bribery business. So, the reverse system of the Slovenian police and, of course, of all the other institutions that I have already counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u101	Thank you. Exceptionally, I'll give the replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u102	[[...]] [[Not included.]] It operates in the Slovenian public all the time with two concepts, which are very skillfully used and are presented differently every time. There's a hearing, there's an information interview. The Slovenian police have not conducted any hearings with these people. She conducted informative interviews and collected data on the basis of which she would have sufficient legal basis to be able to conduct the hearing. And all those who are legally educated in this House know exactly what I'm talking about. The second thing is, of course, that I made it very clear in the opening presentation today that the Slovenian daily Dnevnik published a text which I will quote once again: "that the Finnish investigator did not wish to comment on the facts, stating that Finnish investigators had forwarded to Slovenian colleagues a list of persons who were suspected of receiving bribes in the Patrio business days ago." This was published by the Slovenian journalist 16 days before the Slovenian police received any document relating to the list from Finnish colleagues. He was very well-educated. I do not wish to comment on the works of Finnish investigators like they did, but two days ago I publicly stated that they did not send evidence so that these persons could be questioned. And of course they have to react in some way, but the facts, when someone knew about the lists, show very clearly, in the media are presented and the exact dates are when the Slovenian police were informed of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Finally. Your Honor! We all agree that the accusations are difficult for individuals as well as for the country. And today, if you want to clear this matter up, it's best not to have a variety of supplements on the table, but to put the evidence on the table. This will also end any chance Janša will win the elections. His minister will probably have to lock him up because I believe in the incompetence of the Ministry, because if the Ministry of the Interior were to do something, then we would have this evidence already. [[...]] Today, I also believe there are few people in this hall who care about the reputation of the state. But we are also watched by citizens and citizens, and these are voters and voters. And you're building your own opinion. Many viewers are forced to live with a steady working relationship of 500 euros a month. Some young people, however, have only a temporary employment relationship and pay European taxes, but they also pay the highest tax rate or burden on personal income. And here's the problem, which is why I'm saying it. At the same time, you have allowed an individual to take just one billion euros in white day. Some people already have a bank account, and we don't do anything about it. While some, the leader of the party is essentially talking about social sustainability, and she needs a plane to buy, she has a private chef and she has a bed when she's doing cosmetic services, she also talks about the legal sustainability of the country, again other leaders, I'm gonna stay on the level, these are facts, they're calling on posters, they're willing to take responsibility for future development, and they're forgetting the responsibility of past actions, we also have ministers who have already sold everything, I think we actually have nothing more. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We can't even speak in the shipbuilding anymore, but the posters say that the real results are just coming. [[...]] In short, there are a lot of these anomalies in the pre-election period. I'll tell you again, as I've done many times, it's been stolen too much in this country. You were stealing black and red. We weren't anywhere near it. And you've carried this money quite a bit to banks outside Slovenia. And when the nation wakes up when they've had enough of it, because you don't listen to the unions, it'll be too late. We'll be with the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Kumer also reported to the replica earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, I wanted to, so I only intervened with one, because you weren't in there when I was discussing it. And I also discussed the fact that there is an interesting time discrepant in this dispatch. That is, if it's found out and dispatch 19 was found. 5. 2008 and responded to, but the Director of Police is due to the loss of this dispatch, which is up to 19. 5. she didn't find control orders 7. 9. 2008, four months later. And my question is: why did the leadership of the criminal police not react immediately with internal control, but only four months later, even after September 1st, when this thing began to spin in this Slovenian space? No one can convince me, so far no one has convinced me that there is no doubt that something is wrong here and that someone from politics has had no influence to slow things down, hinders me that, of course, we would not get an epilogue, let's say before the 21st of September when the elections are held. Unfortunately, these four months are too much time and it's a joke to just be seven. The 9th Director's assigning surveillance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, did you answer? You raised your hand. Mr. Mate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u108	I'd like to answer that. Of course, I listened to this performance of yours and I would very clearly like to respond. I couldn't before because I wasn't familiar with the entire report that the Director introduced. Now I can answer that. Crime police examined why this occurred and 30 immediately after this anomaly occurred. A review was carried out on 6 this year to discuss how communication between interlocutors of different countries took place. I have this right here in front of me, and of course I can tell you, so there was no four-month delay and, as far as I know, the Director-General of Police was aware that the answer was not an answer, such a long delay was a mistake, but it did not harm the further course of the investigation because the original dispatch asked whether there were any suspicious transactions between these citizens in Slovenia, or between those persons listed in the dispatch. It was asked for a specific person with a name and surname, Canadian citizens, and whether this person is in any proceedings, criminal proceedings, pre-trial proceedings, in our country. After all this, of course, this matter remained the way it remained. The Director has now ordered re-monitoring, and this document has also been found in this supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u109	Thank you very much. It's a replica of the replica. Mr. Rudolf Petan, you have the floor. If you don't mind, I'll be in charge of the meeting. Mr. Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u110	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Respectable. After everything that's happened to this design on Finnish television, you could say calm souls, nothing new on the left. Similar story to Patria we experienced exactly ten years ago at the Vič-Holmec affair. At that time, Austrian television broadcasts a similar design, a total lie, about how our soldiers and police officers were to carry out war crimes at these crossings in 1991, namely Vič and Holmec. And that's when they fought the occupying army at those crossings. It turned out that they were preparing the matter at the Ministry of the Interior, under the auspices of then Minister Bandl, who had to later, thank God, with interpretation go away, for the lies and for the lies that have been told. So, foreign television, in this case Austrian, is not yet a measure of credibility. Whether any of Austria's televisions apologized to Slovenia because someone wanted to portray them as war criminals and because of such crimes goes to The Hague. They succeeded in Croatia. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The actors were the same or at least some of them. So there was no fundraising with political opponents. Their independence wasn't enough of the world either. Today, Finnish television was on the table because Slovenian representatives who perform spitting on Slovenia are spitting on our country and representing it as a 'banana republic' as a state of disrespect. My colleague would say, "That's the bottom of the floor." Gentlemen, where do you have any respect for your country? And all this just to deal with "J," with Prime Minister Janez Janša. This coalition government, which he runs, has succeeded. There are results, there are higher pensions, there are free textbooks in primary schools, there are cheaper kindergartens, students have food, social security is given to more people, economic growth is high. However, because you do not have a decent, fair program in the opposition, but a staff, so of course the success of this government disturbs you and you want to divert attention somewhere else so that you do not talk about what is interesting to people who are interested in - the development of Slovenia, the development challenges. In the SDS, we want to face concrete programmes for the future, not fake mud in Slovenia. It's foreign to us. We also have patriotism in our programme in the SDS. Otherwise, gentlemen, there's evidence on the table! Put the papers on the table, and all this debate will be completely out of order. Put it on the table if you're so sure. Of course, you have another proposal, which was explained earlier by the President and by the Minister of Defence. If you're so sure, set up everything you have and, of course, cancel the contract. This is an alternative that will quickly silence all of this and there will be no need for discussion. Put the evidence on the table! What are you waiting for?? What are you hiding?Oh, my God! And there's something else about the police. Today you're demanding that the police do something forward and do something for supplies. But you've been saying that Slovenia is a police state because you were hoping Pluto was locked up or someone like that. Talk again and determine what matters to you now, whether the police have to work in stock or work by law. Gentlemen, it's all a total dissatisfaction of the state and nothing is sacred to you, even if it's at the expense of the state. However, the question is, if it is your country, you still dream of some "Yugo", you have some south, some south-nostalgia, and for you still another country is more important than Slovenia. Gather round! Slovenia is here, we live in Slovenia, we have no other Slovenia, we have this country and this must be respected and we must also take care of its reputation. Gather around, come on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marolt, Secretary of State, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! It is my duty to respond to the testimony of the honourable Member, Mr Jank Weber, who claimed that the red thread of this mandate was that politics took control of the police and the prosecution's work. That's not true. The Public Prosecutor's Office is both formal and in fact completely independent and independent of the Government. It shall carry out its duties in accordance with the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and other legislation. Neither the Government nor the Ministry of Justice have attempted to influence the work of the prosecution in this mandate. The Ministry of Justice has indeed done everything in its power to provide the prosecutions of Slovenia with spatial and other conditions for work, which is the only influence of the Ministry or the Government on the work of the Prosecutor's Office. Another false claim or question raised by the honourable Member was why the prosecution is not dealing with this case. That's not true. The State's Attorney's Office reacted as soon as the case was reported, which is May 22nd this year. Repeating claims that the prosecution should take any action in this regard have no basis, since the State Prosecutor's Office is bound to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to the applicable laws and cannot react without a basis and because it seems to someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u114	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Proposals for decision-making. It's supposed to be a debate. I must say that the first decision could even be held on condition, but it is totally unnecessary. As to whether the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia did the right thing when it launched an international public tender, there was actually no specific speech. However, there was, of course, more talk about how the matter went forward. How did it decide how it brought together the so-called intermediaries, for example, the company that was created, even because it was able to take over the offer from the firm that received the tender and so on - we talked about it for two years, two years at a time, and, of course, we can still say that neither the prosecution nor the police acted in time. They did respond very soon, but very soon after the Finnish police did. This is an initiative from the outside, but not from the inside, although we had a series of meetings here, investigative committees, sent questions in which there were always such questions, there was a leak in the drops, and then it was seen that those drops were different from the ones before. That's another thing. In order for the National Assembly to express its support to the State Prosecutor's Office and to the Slovenian police, it is superfluous if it is not even controversial, as the Minister of Justice has previously said. So that it could already mean getting involved or something. Of course, we cannot agree to continue an intensive investigation into the suspicion of corruption, because an intensive investigation has not yet begun. He can't go on with what hasn't started yet. And the third decision, which speaks of the use of a competitive clause and the termination of a contract on the supply of armoured vehicles, cannot be adopted because all the words "k" are not the same. Just count a few and you'll see. If this is already wrongly written, then back up. It is clear that the coalition or that the signatories of the coalition have requested this meeting in order to carry out one part of the pre-election propaganda free of charge. Most clearly and very freely, I must say, he showed it, said in his address to colleague Marijan Pojbič. There was no mistaking. He's "produced" SDS. Much better than the Black Bell or Branko Grimes. Much better. It was very transparent and clear what this meeting was intended for, and therefore it is entirely pointless for us to adopt such conclusions as are proposed. The question remains open: Why did Slovenia have to overpay and pay these eight-wheelers grossly? The second question: Whether or not there were ransoms and where they were going, of course, remains open primarily because of this meeting call, gentlemen from the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u115	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u116	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Much has already been said in this debate, and I cannot help but feel that the purpose or position expressed by well-known Italian politicians and philosopher Machiavelli hundreds of years ago that the objective justifies the means to justify the objective is still valid today. If this was acceptable at the time, since there was no democracy at the time, such views are, of course, unacceptable and unsustainable today. And the call by the President of the Social Democrats for the general mobilisation of all available forces to achieve this goal is therefore unacceptable in democratic time. Apparently, this call by the President of the Social Democrats came across fertile ground with some who, together with fellow thinkers, prepared a conspiracy plan, which then resulted in a Finnish television broadcast, which he overturned and accused himself without any evidence, the President of the Government and, of course, indirectly, Slovenia and, as has been said, the European Union, in view of the fact that Slovenia chaired the European Union for six months. Mr Potrč said that they had not accused anyone, nor Janša no, but now I do not know whether Mr Ptrč had renounced or forgotten that Mr Squeakl was also a member of the Group of Social Democrats, who was one of those protagonists of this Finnish show, who insinuated and accused others, so that the Finnish journalist finally came to some conclusions, although of course he did not substantiate these conclusions with any evidence. However, if there is any evidence of why there is no such evidence, why don't you even put this evidence on the table today so that you can judge whether the charges are being held or not. Well, not just that! If such evidence existed, and if Mr Cwickl, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, had any evidence, not only would he have placed them on the table at any time and even today, but he would also be obliged to announce these matters to the Slovenian authorities of prosecution, because this requires him and all others you accuse, the Criminal Procedure Act in its 145th Article, that all public authorities and public officials are obliged to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, if they have been informed or otherwise carried out. So not only would they be obliged to submit these things to the table, they would even be obliged to announce it to the law enforcement authorities! Of course, because it is not obvious, they did not do so; but if it were not for the authorities of persecution, they would be the perpetrators of the crime themselves. I think it is indeed a serious construct to select all the means to achieve political objectives, as well as the President of the party whose protagonists were actors in these structures has called for the overall mobilisation of all available forces. I hope that such an undemocratic call will not achieve the desired goal and that the Slovenian public will overlook those intentions that are not proud of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, would you like it? Yes, he did mention you, but you didn't discuss it. The only replica is for your performance as a presentation of the parliamentary position. I'll give you a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Kovačič said that on the basis of Mr Pahor's letter, quoted so many times today, the co-thinkers have drawn up a conspiracy plan that appeared on Finnish television. Mr Kovačič, where is common sense - because this time does not go together, except that it is pure fiction. And I support you terribly when you - don't show me the paper because it doesn't have a connection! This is a letter that was sent in a membership and does not speak of any conspiracy plan that appeared on Finnish television that you invented. Mr Kovačič, and when you invite us, who have made no plan and have given nothing to Finnish television, to present the evidence. Give it to you for your design, submit the evidence. Once you are so correct and present the evidence - not for a letter of membership, but provide evidence that we have chosen a conspiracy plan and that our plan has been published on Finnish television to discredit Mr Janša. It's nonsense, it's fictional lies, it's constructed claims that you don't have any evidence for. Please give them to those of you who would like to have evidence, and I'm here for evidence, just to be presented by a journalist on Finnish television, not by us who haven't done anything. And if you're talking all the time, or not you, but Mrs. Irgle's kind to my colleague. Look at what is said in this television show - Milan Cvikl, and this is his only statement: "If at first it was the offer of 150 completely undeclared armourers, and you can simply calculate the price per piece on the basis of the contract, it is clear that Patria was at least 50 million euros better at the end, because we got less than we were originally promised. We therefore think that this is unacceptable because the difference will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers and we wonder why this has occurred." Mr. Kovacič, find me in these words once a bribe, find me in this sentence once a "J" or "Janša", find me anything in this paragraph that would burden us, that we insulted the Slovenian state and caused the whole show that was broadcast by Finnish television!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u120	What Mr Kovacic is insinuating and has just been said is true. What needs to be said, however, is that this quote from Finnish state television is exactly the same quote that I made in early April 2008, which is why Patria prepared, as instructed by the Ministry of Defence or in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, an action against the National Assembly. And six months later, what happens? The Slovenian state, the Slovenian Prime Minister, who has wailed when he stepped on his tail, will sue Finnish state television. That's what this is about, Mr. Kovacich! And the problem is that out of these unfortunate 50 million euros, according to Finnish state television, 21 million euros went back to some intermediaries. And these intermediaries have already said that, at least some, they already have a quarter of a million euros in Slovenia. That's what we're talking about. And if it is problematic for you that Finnish state television is concerned with why Patria is engaged in corruption outside Finland, then you must ask yourself why your government ministers are not acting in the same way as the Finnish minister did when Mr Wiitacorpi was suspended. And the suspension of Wiitacorpi and the information coming from Finland indicate that it was a corrupt act and that the law enforcement authorities should detect it, not that they kept their heads in the sand for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u121	Thank you very much. He asked for the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. I have to categorically deny the statements made by Commissioner Squill that the MORS is to sue the National Assembly. That's not true. That's not true. Nor is it true that Director Wiitacorpi has been dismissed. He himself resigned for personal reasons and also explained at the press conference. And the practice that I mentioned earlier continues against us. We have an article, an untruth, I show evidence, we go on another new subject, and we lie or deceive ourselves. Nor is it true that there would be 50 million euros in damage. Give me this calculation once and show it to the public! First of all, we haven't paid another euro for this deal. Unless you think it's 278 million euros, we're going to pay 20% of the VAT that there's damage, because that's about 50 million euros. But I must say, the contract we concluded did not change the price of the bids in any way. And you're just making up 50 million euros. Just like Schweiger invented today, there's no systemic malfunction on the brakes. And this is the method you keep using. And here man cannot fight as if he were always responding to you, day after day, because a lie becomes the truth in the end. And please show me how 50 million euros of damage occurred, and we haven't paid a single euro yet! In doing so, we will pay EUR 50 million back to the VAT budget. We haven't changed any prices. [[The ad in the hall.]] No, it's not a debate, it's a replica. But you keep repeating, and now in my performance, I keep saying that it is not true that we have damaged the budget for 50 million euros. That's not true! That's not true! No, look, I have my time, too, and if he can convince the Slovenian public that the budget has been damaged by EUR 50 million, and we haven't paid another euro, it's pure deception, but really misleading. Well, please come over and tell the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. [[The ad in the hall.]] I haven't told you the whole story before you're taking the meeting forward. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, the government's representative, the minister, has called. I don't think it was a replica, even though he said so himself. You'll have plenty of time to explain. Mr. Secretary of State Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Again, I must respond to the false claims made this time by Mr Gulic. He claimed that the prosecution did not react in time. Again, that's not true! The prosecution reacted as soon as it was informed, which is 22 May this year. In this regard, I would also like to add that I recommend to the honourable Member and also to the previously appointed Member, Mr Webr, that you read the report of the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, which was forwarded yesterday to the National Assembly, where the chronology of the activities of the State Prosecutor in the pre-trial proceedings is accurately described. This is the document you have here in the National Assembly. And the second statement made by Mr Aleš Gulič that the Slovenian prosecution and police should have reacted only after the investigation was initiated by the Finnish investigators, while the work of the commission of inquiry was already under way, which, according to the Member's opinion, is sufficient to begin the investigation of the Slovenian authorities, I regret to note that the honourable Member does not know the Slovenian legislation you are adopting here in the National Assembly. For the Commission of Inquiry has different tasks or powers under the applicable law as justice. The Commission of Inquiry notes political responsibility, but it has absolutely nothing to do with criminal liability, as the State Prosecutor's Office is acting on the basis of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and on the basis of criminal law. It is true, however, that if the commission of inquiry finds out in its work that there is a suspicion of a criminal service, it is, on the basis of the provisions of the applicable law on criminal proceedings, to inform the State Prosecutor without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač, did you raise your hand on behalf of the proposer? You're giving up. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. Today's meeting of the National Assembly is indeed a rather sad image of the Slovenian state. You have requested the Government Members to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in order to clear up all doubts and to cast aside any suspicion of corruption regarding the purchase of Patrio armoured personnel. At the same time, you, the government Members, have already suspended the President of the relevant commission of inquiry, colleague of Ciccle, and thereby prevented the parliamentary investigation of this arms trade. Moreover, today you have also prevented members of the coalition from all Members and Members from receiving relevant materials without which you know that it is not possible to deal with these issues in a significant and serious way. Clearly, you did not want to seriously address the indicators of corruption in this business, of course you wanted only a free pre-election EPP. I say that the sad image of the Slovenian state is displayed here today. What can we think of the authorities of detection and prosecution of crimes in Slovenia that do not respond to the dispatches and calls of the Austrian Interpol for a year and a half and do nothing about them? At least out of curiosity, one would expect them to try to determine whether there was nothing contentious or criminal in the arms business with Patrio. No! No! Both the Police Minister and the Attorney General allege that they have received no evidence or reasonable suspicion of possible crimes and have therefore failed to act, and should take appropriate action after the official duty. At least that's how the Criminal Procedure Act commands. Which would seem to apply in the rule of law, which our country obviously does not. Minister Mate says a one-and-a-half-year delay didn't cause any damage to the investigation. He obviously knows where the dirty money went. If I didn't know that, I couldn't have known that there was no negative effect on the investigation itself. Apparently, however, he knew that investigators would not find the connection between the money that came to Riedle and, for example, the printing and crucifixing of hundreds of thousands of free people, through whom a particular political party muds its political opponents. As a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, however, I was ashamed of how the Government and the relevant ministries responded to the broadcast of Finnish public television and with diplomatic notes and otherwise exerted pressure on the Finnish government, disregarding, of course, that Finnish public television does not operate under the Slovenian law on public RTV. Is it really possible that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far forgotten? And, by the way, what he was talking about earlier, my colleague, I'm going to say a little bit more precisely. About a year and a half ago, about when the Austrian Interpol addressed its first contemptible dispatch to the Slovenian Interpol, German officer Berliner Zeitung published a cartoon in which both Polish presidents, Brother Kaczynski, were portrayed as two potatoes. Both presidents considered this a personal insult and an attack on the Polish state. At their request, the Polish Foreign Ministry sent a diplomatic note to the German Foreign Ministry requiring the German Government to act against the authors of the insult and to ensure that the officer apologizes. The officer apologized to the potato. This is so in countries where the media are truly autonomous and independent. I do not know whether the statements on Finnish public television are credible or not, but I do know that they respect the public word and responsibility for it in Finland. So I'm very concerned that what they published is not true. However, that the rule of law does not work for us is much clearer today than it was yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Shinkovec, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable. I would like to respond to this latest and perhaps also to some other comments from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to point out, for the first time, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in both notes has explicitly stressed the importance of the principles of freedom of expression and independence of the media. It is clear, however, that the charges in foreign media arising from foreign state institutions are a problem for Slovenian state institutions, especially for the foreign ministry. And as you well know, our embassies around the world regularly and consistently react to similar things. Diplomacy is simply called upon to protest against disinformation and phenomena that are detrimental to national interests. Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also spoke with the Finnish Ambassador. This conversation was not private, it was official, it was held at the premises of the foreign ministry and an official note was made about it. And talking to a foreign ambassador, of course, is not a sign of a diplomatic dispute, but it is a sign of normal, normal diplomatic dialogue and normal diplomatic relations. I believe that such a discussion was the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it would be wrong if there were no such discussion. We are convinced that the reputation of Slovenian diplomacy is not a nuisance, but a firm one. So I don't see that I'd be justified by any doubt. And the ministry acted as it did to protect the Slovenian institutions, the government and its president. It is also normal for the Minister to have talks with his Finnish colleague, especially since he is going to Patria, which we all know is a state-owned company, and representatives of the Finnish authorities said in a statement on the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Beblereva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u130	Mr Secretary of State, it is not normal for a country to ask a diplomatic note from another state's government to "relent", if I say so, under quotations, or to reprimand public television. And, of course, it is not normal for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to then speak publicly about what he was talking to the Finnish ambassador. That's not normal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, on behalf of the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u132	Look, it was one or the other, I think it's already been explained twice today, so allow me again. I really don't know why some people are deliberately twisting things. It was very clear that what you were saying was not done with a note, but that the Finnish government as owner, the majority owner of the state company, was invited to provide the evidence on which it was discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers! I was going to start this part of my introductory talk with the second part, and I'm going to continue where my fellow Member ended up. Mrs Darje Beblereva said that the rule of law was not working and that today it was even clearer than it was yesterday. And here's a respectable colleague of Darje Bebler's. Peter Zupan, former head of the Basic Development Programmes Service, member of the College of the Chief of Staff for Basic Development Programmes and the President of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the approval of the Treaties of Fundamental Development Programmes - wrote a letter to Systemic Technology. And it reads as follows: "In the liabilities of the contract" - in the contract for delivery of 36 vehicles of the wave - "is a provision that at the time of raising the value of the euro at each delivery also accounted for a difference in price to 2%, an increase in the value of the euro since the conclusion of the contract. According to my people, this possibility already exists, so the Systemic Technicians need to start this process and also insist on the adoption of an annex or each increase in prices." Very pleasant situation for the manufacturer. Can you imagine finding such a document in this government or in this minister? Oh, we'd hang him. There's something else. Let's move on. Lobby. All activities can be implemented when appropriate lobbying and expediting procedures in the MORS. A proposal from who? Proposal by the President of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the approval of programmes. Who does it say? The one who supplies the weapons. Listen to what it says: "The Ministry or Kremlin to convince the necessity of supply of the prototype 8x8 because of the possibility of intervention of Mowag or Finnish producers and to speed up procedures for concluding the contract for sanitary waves. The Ministry convinces us of the importance of concluding an additional contract for the following 36 vehicles, but version 8x8 until the start of the election campaign. Don't forget about JJ. It's both J's, so it's probably Janez Janša. Do you know when this was written? 21.11.2003. So what did this gentleman have to do with it, Peter Zupan, is really asking that those who supply suggest that they must increase by 2%, that they must raise the price and that they must immediately conclude the contract by 36 8x8 vehicles. Who was in the government at the time? That's when the rule of law worked! LDS and the United List, you've been in the government and you're saying that the rule of law doesn't work! But here are the documents, the evidence, obviously, of some other kind of business, as is now being done. Do you know what the mistake of this government and this minister is? Because there was an international public order, and of course you didn't know it. You know what you didn't know? With your Minister Jelk Kacin in Israel, you've acquired the hoodies. You know, the ones who killed our people after Poček, and no one was responsible! And of course all of this and such stories you've led in this way. This is your responsibility for the past. Well, if I keep going there, why are we actually having this meeting today? Apparently, the godfather sent his Burmese to Finland and ordered them to do what they were to do and after the Burmese had done their job up there, he promised them that they would probably get a gold watch and a prayer book here at home in the form of an election victory. Apparently, the godfather made a mistake and went to the francs, and that's what's happening to you today. And, colleagues and colleagues, if you have anything, ministers, everyone from the Prime Minister, I don't know who invited you all, so put the evidence on the table! Come on, stop slandering, there's been too much! At the time, Mr Squeakl, Prime Minister, they were together in the government; yes, Squeakle, you were the Minister when this was written by your government to those who supplied weapons from Systemic Technology and so on. There in the last report of the Marinic investigative commission, we read that you sold about a thousand companies like this, without price and without a name to anyone - so, under the table. Do you remember this commission of inquiry? You left the hall instead of answering them with arguments! Well, you know what, say what you think or prove today, put the evidence on the table, then leave this Slovenia, these people to hear some kind of program, political program, development programme, regionalisation and so on. You know what, if you don't have anything else to do, colleagues and colleagues, come to Desterne, come cover the roof! We're doing this, and I'm sorry for the time I'm spending here today because it would be wiser if we covered one roof. But, of course, one of these pigs has to get to the bottom of it. You took them and I hope the Slovenians and Slovenians have cleaned you up or re-examined you to the end. Unfortunately, on the program you lost your story, you lost your story on the staff, now with the machinations, I hope that it will not go the way your client colleague Mrs Meta Kožuh Novak took advantage of it last Sunday in the Union of Retired Associations in Moskanjci. You can't manipulate people, you just can't!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u135	Thank you very much. As President, I have no idea what the documents you are referring to are, so please be careful if they do not have any markings on them, confidentiality marks or secrecy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u136	No, they don't have any signs of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u137	Thank you very much. All I did was warn you about these documents. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u138	The only thing I can say to Lord Pukšić is, "Truly, I am poor in soul." With regard to your statements, Mr Pukšič - do you know what the difference is between your statements and what is happening in the business of Patria? Your statements did not result in any activities of the law enforcement authorities or law enforcement agencies and are insinuations, but the work of Patria and commissions resulted in the prosecution of a number of Finnish citizens who are closed today and in the replacement of the director who went with us, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] with the Slovenian state of the Balkan region. [[...]] And just because nothing happens in Slovenia for a year and a half, we have a situation where you think everything is okay if the money only reached the Austrian-Slovenian border. But no, it is clear from Friday evening that at least half a million euro has already arrived in Slovenia, at a time immediately after the signing of the Treaty. Wouldn't we buy a little out of this for the minister and the others? Half a million euros of money came to Slovenia. Something over some so-called "offside business," something over cash withdrawal. And if that's acceptable to all, gentlemen, then let the Slovenian taxpayers unduly overpay the pre-priced Patrie.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Potch, first of all you. You've already mentioned me at this session twice today, and I haven't even spoken to you yet, and I have to tell you that I'm in politics for the least time, and you obviously want to make me the most guilty. You've been here for about 40 years, and you're still convincing the public that you're obviously the most innocent. I say it's the wrong world, sorry, but that's the way it is. What is happening in Slovenia today is in fact unacceptable and shows only what those who are able to come to power and, of course, anchor themselves forever in this power are able to do. And it is amazing how we have heard incredible things through these discussions and even today, as we look at the National Assembly, and especially the incredible nervousness. I have never seen you so nervous before, Mr Potč, and this also shows how clearly you are running, you to the Social Democrats, water to your throat, and that there will be something on this. It is sad that today the whole of Slovenia deals with the design of Mr Drag Kos and others - by the way, this structure was announced by Mr Drago Kos about six months ago when he threatened the Slovenian Democratic Party - but the whole structure was, unfortunately, so poorly directed, had a Slovenian director, had Slovenian main players, Mr. Cwickl and similar; but it was interesting that the film was Finnish. It's amazing! And this story was obviously created only because none of the parties to the left can overcome such a leader who, in a reasoned, credible and credible manner, can paralyze the current Prime Minister. Unfortunately, if it doesn't go with an argument, it goes with an affair like that. It is already so that Slovenian voters are not stupid and you can no longer convince them only with blue eyes, which are so often sown in Slovenia, especially if they have contact lenses, that they are even wiser. This affair has also shown that obviously none of the parties have any programming solutions for the future. If we had them, we'd be talking about these things today, not some structure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u141	Mrs Irgov, can I ask you something - to move on to the topic we are talking about. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u142	I'm talking about this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u143	Not so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u144	How? I don't understand. I don't understand. Okay, I'm gonna focus on the subject that's got the session convened. Since Mr. Squeakl is still saying everything he thinks, I'll stick to the darkness. Let us take a closer look at who are the main players in the film who make such absurd accusations that the film concludes with the fact that Mr Janez Janša, the Prime Minister of this government, and also the recent President-in-Office of the European Union, who, by the way, said that we were extremely well-chaired by the European Union - but, of course, we need to keep the pollen underfoot. So, who are these actors who have performed this story that Mr Janez Janša has been bribed, and, of course, they are also profaning their own country abroad. First of all, we have Mr. Cwickl, our fellow Member, who has many extraordinary imaginations, and apparently also sometimes says something, which unfortunately he cannot prove. And here it would be good if you put the evidence on the table. I think it's been about ten days, or I don't know how long this affair has been, five days now, but please show evidence, and probably then we won't have to discuss it anymore. Until then, however, it is extremely unacceptable and shameful for this policy to do so. Shameful! The second main actor, who is also the director, apparently, of this film, is Drago Kos, head of the anti-corruption commission. That leader who did this years ago was listening to a reporter named Ranz. Well, not just that. This same Drago Kos is obviously dealing with what local officials are doing in his time of work - I don't know if they're driving in a car or in person, but when they should be chasing real corruption and real corruption, for example, I won't say about the road lobby, Orion and so on, but hides and turns into silence. Probably because the connections here are too strong, too friendly. I'm sorry. Today we are talking again about this structure with the same people. Today, after only four years in politics, I can say that this anti-corruption commission is obviously just a cover so that some affairs can be made through it to discredit people without any evidence. That's outrageous. Excuse me! That's just because a client who said he was going to get an election six months ago seems bad. This is amazing what can happen right before the elections. I walk in the field, and I can say that people don't forgive, and I'll say again, not even to the blue eyes, not that someone is muddling the country, his own country abroad. Here's the main problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u145	Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u146	Madam colleague, I don't know if they have blue eyes, but there are nine Slovenian citizens in this film and two are key. One is a Finnish citizen, Mr Wiitacorpi, who has already left, and the other is those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who paid Wiitacorp too dearly for these patriots.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. As you can see, the Christian Democratic Party is a parliamentary party because it has an MP in the National Assembly, although it has been defined by the President of the National Assembly and also by the Minister of Public Administration that we are not. Well, you heard us out loud, but I've been allowed to speak for five minutes. I think I'll be shorter, too. The state of the spirit in Slovenia is such that for party accounting is insufficient Slovenia and insufficient public media in Slovenia. An international scandal had to be added. In addition to the compensation paid, we have a debate here, we are wasting taxpayer money and this is just an opportunity for electoral propaganda. The citizens are tired of these affairs. When they've been repeating themselves for almost 18 years, exactly the same thing. Always some kind of weapon, always some kind of fight, back-up affairs and the like. When I asked myself what might be behind - these are unresolved factional fighting that occurred after 1985 within the same party. And it's still happening. This is still taking place and therefore a new policy needs to be crossed and made. Patricia is a result of the commanding procedure. Anyone who resists this commanding method of work is gravely removed, and as long as we insist on doing so, the patriots will again and again emerge. This is a system that nurtures democracy and also good measures that are adopted under such conditions are barren. Both sides, left and virtually right, are involved in this mess. There is not enough Slovenian playground, it was necessary to choose internationally, while citizens really need other messages, not debates about newspaper articles. This is a pure waste and a waste of time - this debate in the National Assembly. After all, all these conclusions. Fine, let’s face it — is it any difference if we adopt these decisions or if we reject them? Is there a difference? Will anything else happen in Slovenia? Nothing. And that's what the citizens know, that's what they've noticed. They're shivering for jobs how they'll survive. Of course, it would be much smarter to ask whether Slovenia could become an investment destination where creative freedom will be a place where young people can return the hope of employment so that they can start a family where there will be joy in life and other values instead of selfishness, egoism and money. Relaxation died. It's not a citizen's story, it's not our story. This is not my story, this is your story, your error. It's time for a new policy. And what do you think will happen after the 21st September elections?Oh, my God! This problem of the Party is not going to solve anything. However, it may reappear cyclically, that is, after four years. Once again, it will be an opportunity to settle in the same way, only with this difference if a change is made. That change that those who are protagonists of this fight to withdraw from this field. And that's what people expect. It's time for a new policy. Stop the train. Some people want to get out of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u149	Mr. Geza Juban has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, this train is hard to stop. Too much wood and too much money is loaded on him, and whoever has as much money as he does here can buy power with that money. We're doing it all over again. But now Minister Erjavac is not, for which I have said at least twice in this Chamber that he did not do business for Patricia. He signed the contract, and maybe he doesn't even know the background. But to this day, until this moment, if I know correctly, he did not answer why the Croats bought a patio for a million and a half euros? Equipped, a million and a half euros. The new contract, which is being drawn up, will be EUR 1.3 million, and our unfurnished floors will be on average EUR 2 million. And here's the one, as some of you want to prove, is a confused Squeak account, where there's a difference of 50 and maybe even more euros, 50 million or even more. If you don't believe this, we're making total fools in this house, in the National Assembly. My friend Bajc, you know very well, but you vote differently that we have documentation in the basement that proves it. It also proves that the people who were brokers were related to the business, which at the time weighed a few hundred million dollars. And we, some of us who have seen these papers, and even because of this problem, know one thing, some have changed their minds, and that what they have seen no longer knows that they have seen and why we do not withdraw the degree of confidentiality or any degree is that the public sees what is in these documents and what has been happening in this country in these eighteen years. The numbers are that people don't understand these numbers. They're so big and scary. To tell someone who took ten bridge bridges, highway bridges. The scary numbers are in the back, and it's no wonder the Finns moved when they see that it doesn't lead anywhere. If anyone from Slovenia helped the Finns to reveal this matter - yes, let us kneel before him! Why not if we ourselves are unable to clear up? And who blocked the arms trade investigation? Did it dump you? Wasn't it always the decisive one who blocked it, mentioned here several times today. But there is no opposition organ, a person who is in this game among the most important - because we all know who it is. And unconsciousness! The books are written, not one, there are more of them, all of them are collected in the documentation, the Squeaks Commission, while we were in the refrigerator below in the National Assembly are experts, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[Joseph, can you please listen to me for a minute?]] experts who have arranged all the documentation of the arms trade and the president has asked the members of the commission: "Any comment?" [[...]] One word was not said that anything was wrong behind closed doors, there were no journalists there. It means that all the documentation is arranged and available, accessible, much destroyed in various ways, including in Owl. And we move around and hunt, I don't know, some fog, like we don't know anything that can't be proved - of course we can! Let's open up a level of confidentiality and have someone go watch this paperwork! Members already carry individual copies here. 25 million dollars, one deal in one night. That's not a joke! Many in this country are concerned because threats and similar things that are happening - one of them we 'tried' - again I am among those we 'tried', it is not a joke. Minister, I'm going to conclude by trying with one funny way to joke about €270 million, or in contrast to what is supposed to be achieved, whether it's €10, or €50, or €70 million, that he's laughing and that, as the TV commentator said, "the work of clowns" - this house and this business is not just a circus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u151	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I must express the concern of those who speak in this House today about this business and call it the Balkan business, that this is a grave insult to all those experts who have participated in the international public tender. Too much effort and self - knowledge may have had to be put in, and much effort has been made to achieve the kind of business that some today, unfortunately, call the Balkan business. But I would like to focus in my debate mainly on two parts, the first part of how we, parliamentarians, Members and Members of Parliament today experience this time, which is definitely a pre-election time, and how those who will or will not vote on us experience it. There is no doubt that today's debate is for us parliamentarians, especially in this sense, as we understand today this parliamentary democracy, how we communicate with a potential electoral body, what we are trying to tell them, what we are trying to tell them and what conclusions we want to take at the end of today's debate. Now, whether we were Members and Members of Parliament for today's 41st extraordinary meeting or not, it is not so important; it is important that today's extraordinary meeting is convened in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we have and which we must respect. These standards have been fulfilled, and most importantly, we have decided on the subject at this extraordinary meeting today. The coalition could not pass on the fact that it was an urgent need for the State assembly to discuss this. Whether the coalition has rushed the opposition or not, people are not interested in it today, but it is more or less clear to us who is more right and who is less when we decide on this extraordinary meeting and on this topic that we are discussing today. Whatever the way we look at it, the coalition had to react and it has also reacted and today it wants and wants to have evidence of everything you helped to direct in the opposition and through Finnish public television to present Slovenia as a Balkan state. This is not good, it puts us in some strange light when we are judged by many others both within the European Union and outside. Well, in the second part, I want to stress and ask myself who is actually the victim of this 41st extraordinary meeting today. That these aren't our constituents and voters? Today would probably be the time to present to them our programmes, what we want in the future mandate period in which we want to improve things. Many of these important topics are ahead of us at a pre-election time when we need to tell the electoral body what we want in the coming term. That is why we may have cut them short with this extraordinary session today. But no matter what, we were obliged to respond and we are obliged to respond when it comes to such grave violations and to mutilate Slovenia somewhere outside the borders, to react and talk about it, whether it pleases us or not. And what exactly do we want? We want to achieve and want evidence of what is being said and written on the front pages of the central Slovenian media, which are in the well-known ownership structure of some people who have become rich in the short term. That is all we want to know and thus justify this special session today in front of Slovenians and Slovenians to understand what we are talking about. If there is no such evidence, if they have not already drawn up their opinion and concluded that it is only the political manner of those who, at all costs, no matter what is said and written about Slovenia, want to change. Slovenia does not need major changes, Slovenia needs to continue on this right path. Let me finish with this slogan because we're in electoral time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief because unfortunately the opposition doesn't have much time today, but I'll be clear enough. First, an answer to everyone. Gentlemen of the coalition, you have convened this extraordinary session and believe me that we, the opposition Members, would rather be on the ground explaining programmes and better lives to voters and voters than sitting here with you and persuading you when we know we have no choice. I can't believe that some of you are capable of so much deception, of making accusations just to protect your big boss and protect your policy, which is definitely not real. The conclusions we have before us and this meeting is a pre-election session, and this was evidence of a few performances today when gentlemen of counsel wrote them some speeches and then those political pamphlets were read and cheered by some of the Members. The conclusions we have before us are tedious and unnecessary without any content, so personally, I will not support them either. But we're talking about a lot of money, a lot of taxpayers' money, gentlemen. It's almost 300 million euros, and it's not a small amount of money. Speaking of evidence, respectable. If there is no evidence that the dispatches have been unaccounted for for a year, unless there is evidence that you have terminated the Squire's investigative commission, if there is no evidence that Director Patrie has resigned, if there is no evidence that criminalists from Finland have visited Slovenia, if there is no evidence of certain transfers, financial transfers that have come to Austria, Austria to Slovenia, and so on and then some Canadian citizen is citing to make such transfers 300 a day and that he does not know why he got this money. Gentlemen, the prosecution will give evidence! And when you talk about dirty campaigning. Three months, four months, or a year, you have your newspapers in Slovenia, your toilet papers in which you, the positional MPs, appear in a positive light, and we are ugly ducks. Members of the SDS write various content in these newspapers and discredit us, opposition MPs. If that's not evidence, gentlemen, disaster! And I have proof that some of your members, the presidents of the parties, the candidates for MPs don't know how to pack their papers and fall down the road and write to Progression a variety of political pamphlets before these pamphlets are published. And that's a shame, gentlemen. Where's that money? Who financed this Slovenian newspaper or Slovenian weekly? Express, there's an Express company in Radech. He's never seen that pitcher of a printing press in his life! I mean, gentlemen! The elections, thank God, are close, and I hope that people, Slovenes and Slovenians, will overlook them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u155	Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. All day long, we have been discussing purely other things, such as the content of conclusions that are ready and that you will vote; but whoever carefully reads the content sees that this has nothing to do with what we are discussing and with what is the problem that we are going around all the time. The fact is, of course, that Janez Janša is not guilty of television broadcasting on Finnish television. He's not guilty until proven guilty, like everyone else, until proven guilty. However, Janez Janša is not an ordinary man, he is a prime minister and, of course, this is not only a criminal responsibility but also a political responsibility. Politically responsible and politically guilty, however, it is certainly because he allowed the law enforcement authorities, the prosecution, including Interpol, not to do what they would do in a normal country. Not only did he not ensure that they would do so in time, but many, of course, believe that he even saw to it that they did not stop them from doing so, he kept them from doing so. The next fact is that we paid too much. That Slovenia has paid too much for these patriots, 2 million each, and this to an unequipped vehicle, when we hear that neighbours are paying half a million less, and 135 armoured, unequipped, is a good 70 million. €70 million means €35 per head of Slovenian, from baby to pensioner. Everyone is harmed for 35 euros because of this deal. On the other hand, this month the teachers received their salary later than usual, and they show me the payment sheets that 100 or more euros is lower than usual, just one case, probably more. And Minister Erjavac's statement that Patria wanted an intermediary, because I believe that this mediator was so good that the price was higher, rather than the habit of intermediaries to bring the price down. This is, of course, completely out of the vine for at least two reasons. One is because Director Patrie repeatedly assured that MORS was the one who wanted these intermediaries. But the other thing is, to everyone in Slovenia that we've ever bought anything, it's clear that the vine is twisted, because when you buy, then you make the rules, not the one that sells. You can imagine going to the market to buy vegetables, and he says it'll go through the middleman. Yeah, I'm going through the middleman, if he lowers the price for it to cost me less, not to cost me half a million euros for one patriot anymore. And in the end. It is not just economic damage, which, as we see, is great, and it doesn't matter now who got that difference. It is important, but political damage is also important. It is fortunate that Finland is not our neighbouring country, because then we would probably have similar problems as we have in exercising our rights in the Piran Bay or, more recently, with the border on Mura, when they are building bridges over Mura on our side. And that is certainly one of the reasons why it does not show this government to give a new mandate and to re-emphasize temptations and difficulties when they have to communicate with neighbours and now possibly with Finns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u157	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I also associate myself with the opinion of a large number of people both in this Chamber, when many of them said this, as well as outside it, that this extraordinary meeting is unnecessary, pointless and called only because of the interest of the largest coalition party to present its President in front of Slovenian voters and electorates as a person of the Slovenian state and anyone who hopes to doubt Slovenia's trinity, the Slovenian Democratic Party and its President, as a non-national and national enemy number one. The entire discussion of the coalition at yesterday's meeting of the Defence Committee and today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, with one honourable exception, revolves around the claim, while I agree that inappropriate and unfounded but said on foreign public television. It's as if, as it happened at the head of the commission of inquiry, we want to divert attention from the essence of this thing that we're talking about today. Therefore, in order to stop asking about the enormous difference between the offer of the selected supplier for eight-wheelers and the contract concluded by the Ministry of Defence with Mediator Rotis, the difference reached as much as EUR 50 million or almost 18% of the total value of the contract due to the smaller number of vehicles and the weaker equipment. In order not to wonder whether the defence ministry has indeed allowed itself, contrary to the law on public procurement after the final selection of the supplier, to alter the terms and conditions offered by the supplier Rotis in the tender, and of course for the benefit of the supplier. In order to stop wondering how it is possible that the Criminal Police Office of February last year reportedly founded a dispatch of the Austrian interpolation, which asked our criminal police to assist in investigating the unusual cash flows between Finland, Austria, Australia, Liechtenstein, Indonesia and another exotic country, that it did not notice the registrar of the Austrian interpolation of June last year and woke up only May this year when they began to imprison the people directly involved in the conclusion of the agreement between Rotis, Patrio and our Ministry of Internal Affairs in Finland. And interestingly enough, the Ministry of the Interior didn't start investigating this case until four months after it found that something was wrong with the matter. In order not to ask whether our Secret Service, Owl and the Security and Intelligence Service should monitor such important work aimed at ensuring the defence capabilities of our country. Are there any who hope to claim that these two services have no mandate to investigate suspected weapons purchases? Even without warnings from Austria and Finland, the two Secret Service could at least try to verify that everything is indeed in line with the contract concluded, with operators of arms transactions from the beginning of the 1990s and with doubts arising from the illegal adaptation of contractual terms to the interests of the supplier. In order not to raise questions about a number of cases where, later in the open cases, even individual senior police officers have been suspended in open cases against important persons associated with today's government, either at home, where, for example, the dangerous approximation of the criminal investigation has resulted in the dismissal of individual senior police officers, or when complaints against perpetrators of economic crime abroad have simply been thrown under the carpet to avoid asking where a political party is getting money for the purchase of a client's luxury seat or for client's free weeks. I'm going to repeat what you've heard so many times today. If you were to comply with the law on public procurement, if you were so blinded by the fear of finding an investigative commission for eight-wheelers that the abuse of the rules of procedure and the law on parliamentary investigation "damaged" and stopped its work if you allowed the police and secret services to do their job, this meeting would be unnecessary, you would sleep peacefully, and voters would trust you significantly more than you do from now on.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also gladly and much prefer to dedicate myself to my constituents today, go from village to village, but you have made us an affair, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. And one would think that these days, Stalinistic methods and insinuation will no longer be used. And it seems that these Stalinistic methods are more alive, that these students who have learned from the direct participants of the University of Žerzhinski in Moscow have perfected their methods. The method or intrigue went through Finland, the actors, and, as was said, are domestic. And in fact, one wonders how this closeness of these is to these Stalinist intrigues appearing again and again. I remember the interview with Slavoj Žižka 3. Seven. 2004 when he said about Gregor Golobic: "He is the future Slovenian Stalin, he is the man of power." It was before one of the elections at the time. Now it seems that again someone felt that he could come to power so that someone could become a new Slovenian Stalin. And in such circumstances, such things are obviously produced. Look, then I'm at today's session, when your proposal to postpone, postpone, interrupt this point, and then I've seen Mr. Potsch so undisturbed in the 12 years I've never seen. He just got ripped off, "punched off," clean. And I started to study and I wondered if any very fresh public opinion poll was made, where you're even worse off, because you have to admit that this intrigue didn't work out for you. And that's why it's such a panic, it's such a nervous state. And Mr. Kumer was out of his mind, and I know he can handle a lot of things. And then I thought it would be logical to ask you to postpone the election because you're in a bad position now. It will be necessary to accept what people think about this, what you have been preparing, ladies and gentlemen. You wanted it yourself, you did it yourself, you sponsored it yourself, and of course it's perfectly clear that all people, the same people, have been in the background for years. The finger impressions are actually the same. Because I was investigating the Vič - Holmec affair, as has already been said today, there was the same scenario. It also started there with Austrian television, and there we know clearly how it got there. At that time, they wanted to discredit the state and send Slovenia to the Hague tribunal for war criminals. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] There was a suicide years ago, and then it turned out, Major Troh. [[...]] In those six months, pretty serious people asked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u161	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u162	It's all the same. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u163	Eight-wheelers!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u164	No, no, it's the same background. At that time, quite serious people sometimes asked me if Mr Janša had taken down Major Troho, as reported by journalist Zgaga. And there's a reporter called "Sgaga" again. And here you see, here's a good comparison of what can be done with such intrigues. It is right that you are so far behind in your political technology that you do not realize that these methods are no longer "increasing" in Slovenia. That's how they don't start an affair. It is transparent, very clear, Mr Vice-President, Mr Anderlič is bothering me all the time, I ask you to intercede. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u165	I understand, but I'm just telling you that this session is very difficult to conduct and I'm asking you again, we're talking about what the title of today's session is. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u166	This is the affair that was produced in this way. And it's a good thing we're talking about this. Even when I saw those nervous faces earlier, I told my friend Skull, you'd be crucified because you were the first to propose a special session, a special session. Then he shook his head and hid, but the fact is that he proposed a meeting and I laughed the other day when I read Mr Potsch's reaction, saying how we should talk about the future now. I agree. But you launched the case because you launched the case and talked through and through. And now Pilate's hand washing, Pilate's hand washing, and now they'd tell me about the future. We would, we would have suggested this, only until these matters are cleared up until you give the evidence you're talking about, we know what Mr. Squeakle was doing there. Let him show you things. As we proved at the time, the minister had to step down, it was proven that there was a wiretap or surveillance of Rance's journalist and so on. There's been a lot of evidence. But now you have nothing because there is nothing. Because they're just lies. And so by lying, launch in that way! And it is true that the elections are near, indeed the people have overlooked - before colleague Han wondered that he hoped, had already overlooked the people, had already overlooked it, had not bought it and would never purchase it again. These methods are Stalinistic, survive, thus induce and thus try to get in power. If there is anyone, you can actually see for Slovenian Stalin, I do not know which species, then I hope that the people of such methods that they survive will not and will not have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u167	Mr. Potch, you have a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u168	Thank you very much. First thing you're worried about, colleagues and colleagues from the Democratic Party, do we have a program? We've got him on 100 pages. Those who are literate can read it, who will represent any of it, will see that there are many concrete directions in it, which mean a change in the current policy at some key points, especially the way in which someone imagines power. We don't think of her the way you do. Secondly, I thank everyone, I would say, the medical diagnosis, Mrs Irgle, Mr Jerovsk, which was given today. That's all I'm gonna say. I was hurt. And I am still affected by this session today because such lies, such instigations, I did not even expect from the Democrats. You lied and inspired us to blame for the accusations made on Finnish television. It's such a fat lie. And don't tell me nobody said anything about it, 'cause then I'm gonna need a little more time to explain it. Shame on you! I understand that the election game is cruel, but that you're using it this way is not right. And the third time you're talking about evidence. See why you have not taken the decision that the draft report or the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry, together with the three expert opinions, may be submitted. But perhaps there is something in those expert opinions that would also respond to the Minister of Defence's warnings, why the price is so different and whether we have done such a very good deal or not. And we'd have evidence. But you don't want that evidence. You prefer to insinuate, you prefer to accuse without any evidence and demand that others present evidence, but you can claim whatever suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I have to respond again, this time to the false allegations made by Mr Mit Slavinc, who claimed or gave some sort of insinuation that the President of the Government, Prime Minister Janez Janša, should prevent the prosecution from reacting or doing what should be done. He's supposed to keep all the D.A.'s activities. This insinuation is entirely a very ugly lie, a pure lie. For this claim, Mr President had no basis, no evidence, because in no way has there been any impact on the prosecution's work on either side, not in this case, nor in any other case. Nor did the Prime Minister have any influence on the work of state prosecutors in specific matters. Public prosecutors are completely independent and independent in their work under the applicable law. The claim made by Mr Slavinec is also an insult to the work of some 200 Slovenian state prosecutors and state prosecutors. Members of the National Assembly would expect you to respect the institutions of your own country, to respect the judicial authorities as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Perhaps the distinguished Mr Secretary did not understand me very well. For I believe that the prosecution is more capable than it has proved in this case. And because of this, not just me, many think that there was certainly something that someone said, or maybe even the prosecution only knows what one of them expects, what kind of case it takes to do if the government has not intervened. That's how I basically said it as a compliment to the prosecution, which I believe is very capable, that it's good, but maybe it didn't work out here, as we expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u173	Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Vice President. Under the influence of impressions, and I don't know which one is dominant, but one is definitely an amazing "salto mortale" that was made by so-called Janša thunderbolts, the SDS. Together with the Prime Minister, they suddenly became martyrs. They used to beat, attack, win, and so on and so forth, and now they're barking and groaning. The amazing "salta mortale" when formerly Slovenian journalists were poor, today they suddenly became good. That's what we heard from their mouths. If this is not hypocrisy, hypocrisy for the purposes of what will happen in a few days, ten days, that is, elections. It's hypocrisy, gentlemen. Mr Minister, who has just arrived, is also involved in this story. He's hurt. So it's all about him. He, a self-proclaimed pensioner who promises 1,000 euros, by the way, his Moroccan solicitors for MPs denied it themselves, said he had little chance of finding it unrealistic. And this minister and this occasional comedian forgot that we are talking about very, very important and serious things today. About money that went needlessly where I shouldn't or shouldn't go. If you ask him about trilogy, you find out or eventually find out that he's actually got us all thirsty over the water. We don't have an answer today where 120,000 euros are. He promised to submit an internal report or audit report. He promised to secure a refund of 120,000 euros. So what's that compared to 50 million or 21 million or 3 million? With 120,000 euros, it doesn't even make sense to do business. This is my feeling of the seriousness of our Secretary of Defense. Why did this happen? Because it's electoral time. We had in 2006, 2007, when the book was written by Matevž Frangeža. What can you do for us, but a book was written for us, written by Mr Brane Praznik, Death Dealers. Facts, facts, names, dates. It's all in these books. There is no need for the coalition or the prime minister or its faithful castors to react, to complain, to sue, and so on. No, no, no. It was a bad time, that wasn't necessary. We've got electoral time, one show on Finnish television, storm. The storm is because they want this storm because they want to and they want to be martyrs. These are and they expect the Slovenian public to believe them today. I don't believe the opposition MPs. I expect the opposition Member to discuss today why the contractual clauses were such as, why was he an intermediary to discuss why the Minister himself, without looking at the government in the documents, was, therefore, without accurate information to the Government, the President of the Government, what agreed on how it was agreed what comparative analyses had shown, signed and believed that we were all naive together in this Slovenia. I'm not that naive. I do not believe this, and therefore I think that this event is more a disgrace to the coalition today, to the shame of those who are leading it, than to those who must participate in this stupid debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u175	Mrs. Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. The content of today's session, which has a very long title, and therefore refers to the consideration of the decision to equip the Slovenian Armed Forces with infantry combat vehicles 8x8 and to the examination of the implementation of the international public tender and the examination of the evidence of suspected corruption, has already been a lot of talk and will continue. I want to stick to the agenda. I don't want to press charges because I think passions are overheated. We all know that the decision to equip the Slovenian Armed Forces with infantry vehicles has already been taken in the previous mandate. Just before the 2004 elections, there was also a signed letter of intent with Systemic Technology. Then the political suit in power changed, and the practice of arms acquisition changed. With an international call for proposals, the new Defence Minister has completely changed the practice so far and has actually put the matter on the table. The performer was chosen, not the one in the letter of intent. The treaty was signed, including with an anti-corruption clause to protect us taxpayers. Businesses have run out, and the Minister of Defence has promised the first armoured men in September, even though two years before or before them have been smoking. And it is on this subject that he buys weapons, because there is always a lot of money going on, and because it's big business, but of course there is still time before the elections, that was the appropriate scene for the alleged suspicions of corruption. He was accused of being a Slovenian official in the highest position, which is a serious charge that necessarily requires evidence. In the first place, however, we must be aware that the fundamental legal rule of innocence applies: as long as the guilt is not legally proven, so long as the person is innocent. The charges must be proven or denied only by the competent authorities and not by the politicians. We cannot pass judgment, but as politicians we can assess. And we evaluate the reports that the police have given us and the prosecutions concerning this case. The police have been carrying out their activities. However, they found that they did not respond in time to Interpol’s dispatch. Whether it was negligence or slander, it will respond to an internal safeguard measure to be implemented. We have also received a chronological report from the prosecution, and we have been made clear that the prosecution does not make statements and data in the forecasting procedure. We are interested in two dates, 22 / 22 5. 2008 when the prosecution received a phone call from the Finnish Attorney General's Office, this was the beginning. The prosecution reacted immediately, there were various activities and arrangements and 18. 6th this year, this is the second date, and they received a criminal complaint against the perpetrator. They demanded concrete evidence. And since our law requires a clear definition of what specific act a person is suspected of, it is only then possible to hear it because there was no evidence, there was no hearing. These reports have shown that the work of the police and the prosecution has been carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the law. However, because I listened very closely, I felt that there was some way that the procedures might have run faster or perhaps better if the legislation were slightly different. It would therefore be modest to suggest that our legislation should also be reviewed and that it can be adequately complemented by solutions so that the procedures can run faster and there may be no mistakes. The accusations of the President of the Government, particularly in the context of the Slovenian National Elections, constitute a certain discredit, and the same can be discredited by the State, which must not be denied. I would like and appeal to Slovenia to bring together all the power and to show that the rule of law is in force, that the rule of law is in force and that all these accusations will come to an end. This is what citizens and citizens expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u177	Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Those of us who have survived most of our lives at a time when we have been constantly threatened by an internal or external enemy, if necessary, and both of us are well aware that the defence strategy has changed since we were members of NATO. Our security borders have moved to crisis areas, fortunately far from our country. We send out the most precious items we have, these are our soldiers and our soldiers, so it doesn't matter whether we send them there naked and bare or equipped with the most modern equipment to ensure they return home safe and sound. Allow me to remind you that we have already had a very happy experience, since the price-paid Hammer has saved them from the worst. I think it is right that we have joined the procurement of transport vehicles in this mandate 8x8 with an international call for tender with only two tenderers. I'm sure the commission has responsibly chosen the best bidder. So far, everything is nice and right, and from here on out hyenas appear who, with lies, insinuations, without conscience and national pride, first issue secret information and then malign our country abroad. If I only recall the broadcast of Finnish television, where the main evidence is known faces from Slovenia, and nowhere is there any material evidence, although all the average of individuals is condemned for corruption. The saddest and most worrying thing is that he put Slovenia aside in the press on the show to corrupt countries, where we are not judging at all. More. Blaten was also the President of the Government and the man who has chaired the European Union for the last six months. I'm sure our journalists wouldn't make such a trendy, uncreditable show. Of course, if it's to believe the Hand of the Praprotenik and his assessment of the show. It's no big deal if we fight at home. But it is a big problem for me, even more, to betray the country if our citizens and our country are profaned abroad unproven. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not allow this to anyone, not to our citizens, but even less to our foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u179	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that our viewers or voters and voters would deserve to be debated today in the National Assembly by all Members and we are trying to present to the public what the public deserves. If that was not the case, it was now possible to recognize this at the very beginning of the meeting when a proposal was made by the opposition, SD, to obtain additional materials. This material would certainly be confidential in order for this meeting to be closed to the public, which means that it could be discussed again, that the public would not be informed about this and that voters and voters would again have a lack of information, as usual in such matters. Today, it has been heard repeatedly that this meeting is unnecessary, that the debate is too long, that it is an election campaign primarily of the SDS or coalition. I say that today's session could be five minutes long and nothing more, only the evidence should be presented by those who have been in public for two years now, but also abroad, spreading misinformation, lies, muddling the country, muddling the government, which I find unacceptable. I am sure that if only one piece of evidence were presented here today, voters and voters on September 21st could be very able to decide. But it's not like that. All that has been discussed, what is being discussed, has no basis, and these are truly pure insinuations and deceptions. It is true that the opposition and those actors in the background have probably gone awry because people have not bought this story. They couldn't believe that something like this could happen, and it really didn't. And to abuse a foreign journalist, probably not for free, has certainly been richly rewarded for this by actors, as well as by Finnish television, is the worst thing that can be done, especially because our country is muddy. Who will benefit from the meeting today, or who will benefit from it? I am sure that the greatest benefit will be from today's audience and viewers or voters, all those who accompany the meeting, and I hope that the media will also take stock of today's debates, especially the arguments cited here. It is fair to find out that the affair that was produced is a completely pre-eminent tumor, a deception and that this purpose has not been achieved. Even more likely, our family will be comforted. I have relatives in Sweden who have turned to me with resentment and, of course, also with the question of whether it is possible that from a story that in fact does not have any attention abroad, whether in the media or in the public, such a rumpum, such a circus, such a media pump can take place in Slovenia. They were actually in the dilemma of whether their homeland was really so corrupt, or whether such unreasonable things could really be happening here. Even abroad, our natives are also monitoring today's meeting, and I am sure that many of these can be comforted when they see the purpose for which this affair was produced, and will also see that there was nothing out of it, that they could be proud of their country, as of course I am. I'm going to support those conclusions that we'll be happy to have. I hope that voters and voters will also be able to work on 21 September on the basis of today's debate, and that they may also recognize that certain so-called parliamentary parties to Parliament are never to be represented again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to ask myself who in Slovenia is performing the rampom on the basis of a TV show in Finland and which one of these sessions has something. I am sure that nothing and that no one will be comforted after this meeting, because the National Assembly is not the body to discuss this and who should act at this time, but someone else must act. And if I use the words used by the honourable Members of the Coalition, I could say that there are people in the government coalition who are willing to maintain power to do exactly what they want to do. The call for you to provide evidence of our connection to Finnish television would make no sense, as this is simply not the case for the Social Democrats. And so you can't have proof either, so I'm not asking you to submit it, because you just don't have it. But I understand you're thinking this way, because this thinking is very close to you and it's written on your skin. So politics entered this story at the wrong time after my assessment. Now is the time for the competent authorities, and political sanctions will follow when these authorities finish their work. And speaking of sanctions, let me ask you a question. We've had a lot of affairs in the past, at least some of them have served for your 2004 election victory. Now, I'm asking, which of these affairs has had an epilogue? Who's behind the covers? Who is going to be punished on the basis of all these massive and big affairs in the past in Slovenia? Today, as well as ever before, the National Assembly is eager to turn into a courtroom where the relationship is clear and there is no telling who is bringing a shorter end. Exactly how many Members are considered by the coalition and what its power is in this Chamber. However, this vote in the National Assembly is usually followed by an assessment of the people accompanying the meetings of the National Assembly. Here I think the ratings can then be much more fair. Finally, my assessment of everything that is going on in Slovenia these days is difficult even in the cartoon to make the story so that in the end it becomes the only victim among all the performing lions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u183	Mr. Bojan Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u184	Thank you. When I first saw the movie "The Truth About Patricia" I thought I was looking at some criminal. After a few minutes, when I started to watch it all together in a forum on who these actors are, these players, it's clear to each of us quickly that it's being launched. And all those who used to watch the mounted processes, one even reanimated, it's only right that we get into this and see ourselves in that history somehow repeats itself. That these mounted processes are simply mounted in elections, in an election story, it's clear to everyone. Anyone who sees actors like Squeakle, Mr Potočnik and others in these films is quite clear that they are experts who get to know everyone. And if all these distinguished economists, lawyers, or people who know everything, just read those 10 commandments of God, you'd see inside that all that's going on is "lari-fari." He's in there, I'll just count three: Don't lie, don't steal, and lately the very current command of God: Don't bear false witness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u185	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Mr. Sušnik. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mag. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I think there's a lot of gibberish in here. What they were doing when they were negotiating with Systemic Technology, in secret, without calls, was corruption. And this now, what they have done in secret, is seen by those who have worked with a call for proposals and transparency in the competition of international tenderers. 8 were invited, 2 offers came. And this resentment of those who failed in their own way, unfortunately there was a change of government in Slovenia, an honest government that worked transparently so the big deal fell into their water. They sold System Technology to a private company that paid off the purchase by selling 30% of this Austrian company to Steyr and going together in some way to play with the offer of serious vehicles, which in serious peace operations must primarily protect the lives and health of our soldiers operating in conflict situations in order to create conditions for a normal, peaceful life in these environments. In fact, I am very glad, thank God that there has not been a realization in this way, because these vehicles, in my opinion, would not be able to operate in such a situation. Military standards, then standards require such devices to operate in [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] extreme cold and heat conditions, minus 50 to plus 135 degrees Celsius. [[...]] I don't know about these vehicles, but for some conditions, these are robust standards. And then in the end, through the accusations of foreign, on the political line related [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] groups in the state of Finland, abuse or use this way of accusing corruption without any evidence, is something human beings do at all. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u188	I don't have any choice but to keep asking, and I'm trying to explain to the public what this is really about. It is more than obvious that the applicants have moved away from the address they have written themselves. I explained to them this morning what the Secretary of the Government sent to the National Assembly yesterday - that the Government had indisputably proposed to the National Assembly in 2005 and the National Assembly had adopted the acts on the basis of which the call was made. And here you keep saying that the previous government has done it and so on. Far from the truth. The truth is that this government, this minister, has drifted away from the four principles of public finances management, and this is a grave one. The first is the principle of economy. He bought expensive, unfurnished equipment, bought it with a broker, at his own request, so they say in Finnish Patria. He bought something that's a question if it's useful, it's an Elbit weapon he chose, not a Patria. It is certain that he did not follow the principle of transparency when it comes to public finances, to the public principle and, most importantly, to prevent controls. We therefore expect that we will finally truly get what is coordinated, not coordinated in an ideal way, or whatever has happened within the police and police authorities, that the actions will be investigated, and that we will get reports, that we will also get an internal surveillance report, even though I do not know what we can expect, given that it is to be carried out by the ODS, as the Minister has said. Members of the same OPCW were also members of the negotiating committee, so they will investigate and report themselves. But let's be surprised. However, I am almost certain, given that the Minister has already promised internal control three months ago, that he will introduce it and that we will receive a report. We didn't get it. And why do you tolerate this, why don't you need a transparent purchase? I have absolutely nothing to do with these accusations, with the TV, with the show, I don't care. For three years now, I've been asking questions about the cost of this equipment, what we're going to get, when we're going to get it, and how we're going to use it. By the way, several times in this mandate, I asked the Government, President of the Government, I wrote him a letter once, twice, Minister, gentlemen, the goals of NATO have changed, the real minister, we don't have and we won't have 8,500 soldiers, we currently have 7,000, why we're getting equipment like we've ever had 8,500. We won't have them, so says the Chief of Staff, so says someone else, and we're buying equipment like we're gonna have it. If the objectives have been changed, this is a debate in the National Assembly, and it is a matter of discussing what and how. All I care about is controlling the use of public money. The brokers weren't needed. It turned out, and the police know that the cash flow has leaked and that someone in this address was picking up some money. And once they've looked into something, maybe [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u189	Only Mr Potrč is present on the list. Then I'd give Mr. Potts a word and then I'd give it to the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We regret that Finnish state television has accused senior Slovenian government officials of accepting bribes. None of the defendants are to blame for us until proven guilty by proper legal procedure. You haven't heard from anyone in Social Democracy that he'd charge anyone for bribes. For this reason, we find it extremely unacceptable that you are asking us for such a claim. We haven't done anything, we're just demanding that we find out by legal procedure. And today you've been yelling at us all along about how guilty we are of this situation. Therefore, we firmly and severely reject the lies that you gentlemen from the Democratic Party of Slovenia have been spreading all the time at this session and have accused us of designing this broadcast on Finnish television. Perhaps the main believers of Prime Minister Janša believe that. Because you are happy that you can follow your leader and that you do not need to think with your own head. Still, we should think that for such harsh claims you must offer some evidence. Gentlemen, what's a worse offense than accusing one party of constructing a TV show on Finnish television and accusing Prime Minister Jansa and many others of accepting corruption? What's a bigger lie and a bigger insult? And that is what you have done today, Ambassadors and Members of the Janša Democrats, throughout the session. We understand that you haven't offered any evidence, because it can't be. Because we have nothing to do with it. But we are trying to understand why the Democratic Party decided to spread such lies. This is what he wants to distract the public from the underlying problem. This is from the problems and issues related to the conclusion of the contract and from the questions whether the conclusion of the contract has gone to the benefit of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, or whether there are issues that would suggest that they should be clarified. You simply wanted to blur the essence of the issue on which we tried to focus the opposition's Members and Members not only on this meeting, but also on the Commission of Inquiry. I do not hope to say that all the possible findings of the commission of inquiry can be accurate, but indeed we have not received an answer to why we received less at the same price, less after the equipment. Why the difference between the invitation to tender and the difference between this and the contract, we did not get an exact answer. And we should get these answers because here is the key and the heart of the problem. And let us doubt that you did not want an answer to this question and that it was therefore easier to prevent the work of the Commission of Inquiry in the most inappropriate way that could be selected. For you know well that President Squirrel could be resolved in a thousand different ways. The simplest would be to come before the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the National Assembly and request its resolution with one or the other arguments. There was also no meeting this time, and this time, after the procedure you introduced, the argument was squandered and empty because you requested a hearing on things which were not the subject of any inquiry committee at all. And if we had a new investigative committee, we could figure out what the real truth is. And just as you have done so in other cases of investigative commissions, where you have adopted most of the conclusions as you wish, you would also in this case have decided that the whole process of purchasing the eight-wheeled Patria was legal and the best. And we could be in a bad mood, we could talk further, but we would officially have an answer, as you claim that you now have it in connection with Mr Rope's statement. And you don't have it because you're only quoting half of the findings, the rest of the findings, which says that the interviews were, and it's not sure whether the commission of inquiry or the commission that controls the Owl has got all the information you need to have a final evaluation. You have simply decided not to identify the underlying issue, but to convene an extraordinary meeting and to accuse the opposition, the Special Social Democrats, of staged the debate in Finland and that we had an interest in accusing the Government of, in your opinion, winning the elections. These are such harsh lies that only someone in the thinking structure is instilling and untruth, no one else can afford it without one element of evidence. So I say that we firmly believe that this was an attempt at manoeuvre. And I'm sure this experiment of maneuvering for everyone who's been accompanying today's session is not going to work. Let me conclude, unfortunately, instead of smart discussions, we have listened to each other's accusations. On behalf of the Group of Members, I say that we will not support any of the conclusions because they are either misleading or unnecessary or semi-real. And half the truth is as bad as a lie. And it would be good if at least 10 more days, as far as we have them, we really focused on the essential issues for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Chernač has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u192	Thank you very much. It was nice to hear those first words of Mr. Potsch or the first sentence. Unfortunately, I must say, given that we then listened to the continuation, I doubt the sincerity expressed at the outset. Mr Borut Pahor was not charged in this matter. In this case, the President of the Slovenian Government was gravely accused in this way; I do not think it necessary to quote once again the statement made by this journalist that the Slovenian state was also accused. That's the problem. And the reversal of this fact today in this session also points to some kind of perversion. I liked that you apologized, Mr Potch, that you called me wrong, but then I didn't answer for that. You didn't apologize for the following statement you made today. You said, "I am confident that the principle of innocence and guilt will then be established, not a corrupt political majority in the National Assembly, which cares little about any principle of honesty." With this you probably did not only offend me, but all those, including your colleagues and colleagues, who are voting for solutions in this National Assembly. For when your colleagues and colleagues vote for them, they are also the majority. I'm afraid you didn't apologize for that. It's behind these stories. It was said why there are indications that such and different backgrounds exist in Slovenia. The very strong indications are that individual trips of individuals to Finland in the last period, the use of a dictionary in this broadcast, the whole scenario of this story, taking into account what your Member has also heard, speaks of a unilateral presentation of this matter made by this journalist. Why, then, did he come to the conclusion that this is his problem, and he and the house where he is employed or working will have to deal with it. But the fact is that your Member of Parliament, Mr Squeakl, said in this broadcast: "...it is clear that, in the end, Patria was at least 50 million euros for the better. We therefore find this unacceptable because the difference will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers." These statements about these EUR 50 million - not today, not in the past three years - have never been made; not in public, not in closed sessions. And of course, the journalist concludes that when bribes are used in transactions, then the product should be sold at the most expensive price only so that the bribe money can be reimbursed. Apparently, no one told this second part of the story, which exists in these documents, which are also in the National Assembly, in this so-called quiet room, and of which today the minister was speaking, where it was said that the offer of Patrie vis a higher patch or Systemic Technics, the Viator & Vector, was more favourable for all elements, including the price element. And according to individual supply segments, this difference ranged from 12 to 18%. We do not deny that there has been an investigation in Finland and that something has obviously happened in this company, and we also want to, and we have repeatedly stressed that this investigation has been concluded. It's wrong, it's bad that she didn't finish before the elections. I think it would be right for everyone, but unfortunately we can't influence that. But it's interesting to get some media in this country 16 days earlier a list of people for whom the Finnish police sent our police a list to question. Very interesting! And if we connect that the journalist of this medium is in very strong contact with another journalist and with Drago Kos, then I think things are much clearer. Then we can ask ourselves whether they operate in this country in the police parallel structure; whether we have another illegal base under this official police governance structure in it, which is being directed from somewhere else; for all this information speaks about it, and also this story with the dispatch, that something is wrong. The minister's responsibility is, of course, that he has not clarified this in this mandate. Apparently, these things were so hidden that they couldn't be detected. But no matter what, all of this can be speculation, and until things are cleared, it's not right for me to speculate. The indisputable fact is that it is undeniable - and therefore I think it is nice that you said at the outset that you are not pleased, that the Prime Minister of the Government is accused of something he did not do. On the other hand, half an hour ago, I listened to the contribution from the press conference of your President, the President of the LDS, President Zares, that this extraordinary meeting today is only a political manoeuvre of four parliamentary groups, SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS, and that it serves only for the propaganda purposes of the electoral campaign. This statement also points to some duality, including the duality of the LDS, because, after all, it was Mr Školč who first announced the convening of this extraordinary meeting, and now this meeting, because of us calling on it, would serve our political purposes. Or, if I'm going this far, the last time he broadcast on TV was that this story was cooked by Mr. Janez Janš himself. Of course, he cooked it himself, and now he's driving this extraordinary situation away to wash the guilt away! Please! Or compare Beblarov's colleague with Polish Prime Minister Kaczynski and potatoes - completely different things! With a joke to name a prime minister, or a prime minister to publicly accuse corruption, I think these are completely different matters! This is something similar, as if some medium had announced to Mrs Beblarev that she looked like a nice Russian grandmother, or if she had announced that she had received a bribe during a certain period of time when she was sitting in the National Assembly for having adopted a law. It's a relationship like this, and it's a relationship like this. I'm sorry. And how would you react if it were one of you? I think in such a case, you need to put yourself in such a position in the first place and then ask yourself if what you're saying is true. We didn't talk, sorry that this business for the Slovenian state was bad. You keep saying this and justifying it, despite the fact that it has been clearly demonstrated in this process that an international tender has been carried out, which we have not seen in previous years, and that on the basis of this international tender, 8 of these documents have been raised or sent, five have been raised, two have submitted offers. The Minister or the Ministry didn't choose them. They responded to this invitation themselves. It does not claim that our intention was to bring this matter to an end, especially in the part where the investigation into alleged irregularities in Patria is taking place, with today's session. Far from it! At first, we made it clear that the National Assembly is not the one to judge. We made it clear. We also said that it is impossible to expect these matters to be cleared up until the elections. We have made it clear that we expect these things to be clarified through the competent authorities to the end and that, given the extent to which this matter has been brought to light, the National Assembly and the general public will also be informed. And it's also in these conclusions. Even in this first decision, which had been denied so many times, and when it was said that no one opposed it. However, it is clear that it is okay that this international invitation to tender has been issued. I don't know if that's clear to everyone and if it's okay for everyone. This is certainly not the case for Viator&Vektor or Systematic Technology, since, on 17 July 2007, they would not have filed an action against the State or the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia for EUR 5 million, in which they claim the payment of this sum because the letter of intent, "Letter of Intent", was not realized, as was written in August 2004 by the former Minister of Defence and then President of the Viator&Vektor administration, Mr Zdenko Pavček. In this letter of intent, this business is described very precisely. And today, some of you have practiced with this story about the anti-corruption clause, whether it's formalized or not. It's a completely irrelevant exercise. We know if there were corruption in the background, this contract will fall, everything else will be finesse. In this letter of intent, ladies and gentlemen, on August 20, 2004, things about Viator&Vektor supplying the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia with eight-wheelers, named cop 2 or rag, are very clearly defined. And neither the price nor the other conditions were established, but it was clearly stated that this would be done through this company. And only the 2004 elections and the change of power allowed the Government to take the decision that Mr Anderlich was talking about and to publish this international tender. However, the substantive decisions to purchase such vehicles were taken in the previous mandate. And that's an indisputable fact, it can't be denied. First decision 2001 and next decision - 13 July 2004. At that time this decision was also taken for the number. What will happen if the court approves this suit, which is a high probability that it will. Who's going to pay this 5 million 600,000 euros? The taxpayers, or will they be paid by Mr. Squeakl? Will they be paid by someone else in this hall? Will the former minister, former Prime Minister, pay them, Mr. Rope? None of these. They'll be paid by taxpayers. And those who exercise so vehemently with this competitive clause, at the same time you are not prepared to take any part of the responsibility for what you write when you say - I think that from LDS this amendment - if there is an indication that the contract has to be terminated; you can, take responsibility for it! So far, Slovenian taxpayers have not been harmed for a single cent. But they would have been damaged, not for one cent, but for millions of euros if this letter of intent had been implemented and those vehicles were supplied by Viator&Vektor or Systemic Technology. You have probably already forgotten the pressures that were being exerted by the local environment, employees of this company who came before the government palace in Ljubljana and threatened what would happen because the Ministry of Defence acted economically, rationally, responsibly and chose a cheaper bidder. You must have forgotten that already. And I haven't forgotten that. And I remember well that at the time it was said that it would lose a job I don't know how many workers, in a Slovenian company, which was a lie when it was said - Systemic technique is no longer a Slovenian company, but it is controlled by Austria's Steyr and the Americans. Today or in these days, I think it's this Friday 12. 9. When we received an invitation to open new premises worth about €6 million, the Systemic Technology Company in Ravna, Koroška. Those are the facts, too. These are irrefutable facts. But they talk about the fact that the whole story, in the way it was deceived, was so ensnared solely by the fact that those who, because they were poorer, had lost their way, were so deeply connected with politics in this building that this story was a success all the time. How else could it have been that the Commission of Inquiry, which investigated 8X8, on the same day as Mr Ivan Prebil was appointed a member of the Viator & Vector Board on 18 January this year, appointed this gentleman as an expert? What Finnish investigators report to an Austrian citizen - espionage, industrial espionage, which is supposed to have gone secretly and underground, is what this gentleman has done legally in this country, and no one is asking questions about it. Nor is it true, as was said in Mr Pečet's debate, that the National Assembly was not allowed to talk about the purchase of 8X8. On 31 January 2007, a request was made for an extraordinary meeting to be held on 15 February 2007. There's a magnetogram of that session. Mr Peče also led part of this meeting and answers were given to similar questions as they appeared in the debate today. Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem says: "If we judge what many entrepreneurs, craftsmen and economists in Slovenia have told us in recent days, it is not possible to get almost any business at this time, nor the smallest public contract without bribes, without envelopes for the involved." End of quote. I don't know if the Member is aware of what she's saying. Says her mayor also gives bribes or bribes to get the craftsmen in Domžal. That 210 mayors in this country are doing it. At the very least, it has burdened both the Government and the President with this statement, because the Government and the President are not making public procurement. I think it's irresponsible to create some general image that you've always wanted to create, the corruption of everyone and everyone, which is not good. If we really want to set these standards and make things even better and more transparent, then this is not the right way. It was the right path, which we also used in this mandate. As you know, the Public Procurement Act has been amended. As you know, these things have changed significantly. A method of public procurement has been introduced to make it accessible to all. They are all equivalent in these procedures and there is a way in which they are transparent and where they go through the public media. I believe that many claims have been made that have already been denied several times. That would probably make it wrong for me to repeat myself. But at the end of the day, I'd like to say one more thing. The real purpose of those who proposed this extraordinary meeting was as I mentioned at the outset. The purpose was to reverse this story - and given how it was placed in public and how it was echoed and how it began in these last days and when the essence of this harsh accusation became untrue and already secondary and all the details were more important than ever that it was wrong for this story to continue until the elections. It wouldn't be right. I think it would be wrong for a third millennium to decide who to trust in the next term to take place on the basis of a relation to such a story. I don't think that would be right. Even if anything were true in this story and it turned out to be true, the one involved after September 21st is also politically dead. That's a fact. However, it would be wrong if there was nothing to be involved and that he was still politically dead on September 21st. That's what I think is fucked up, and this is the dirtiest election campaign we can imagine. I am not entirely sure, irrespective of some of the last statements that are going in this direction, that it would be right to face the programmes in the coming days and what we believe must be done to make this story truly disappear from the media space in the coming years. Someone has already said today that nowhere does it say that on September 19th, Friday will not be in some medium that is considered credible because there is no freebie, there will be a note with some forged document that will accuse someone again. There is no record of this and I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that, given your actions, I am increasingly convinced that something like this is going to happen. I hope not. Nevertheless, we strongly believe that this meeting has been necessary today, that all those decisions that are proposed, which also attach to and need to be adopted by the debates of the opposition Members, are necessary. And that the suspicions that have arisen in this business must be cleared up through the competent authorities and made known to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]] [[Excuse me? How's that for a while?]] Look, there are certain things I have to say, because I think there's a lot of deception here, especially by the opposition, especially with the LDS party, they've been doing this for three years. I understand that they want to get this treaty out of the world in every way, especially because we know that a letter of intent has been signed under the previous Minister and that they are even suing because we have not fulfilled the letters of intent. Therefore, I do not understand when Mr Anderlič is talking about his interest in transparency, control, and I do not know what else, but in the past, when he was in power, when he was acting as the king of Parliament, or when it came to voting on laws, he was not disturbed when there was no invitation to tender for the waves. Finally, these waves were 30% more expensive, and twenty-four annexes were signed; each time some extra money was needed, an annex was signed. This is interesting what standards were at a time when you were managing state resources and what standards you want now that we are managing resources - that is to say, the Minister of Defence, where it is clear that we have managed transparently and in accordance with the rules. He's not yet an authority to determine that anything would be wrong with this treaty. You keep repeating: surveillance, surveillance, surveillance. I don't think any Minister of Defense has been on the Defence Committee that many times in the 17th year. We've only had more than ten meetings on the defense committee on Patria, clearing out every detail. So the public attention was an exception, the media kept on -- let's say, for the Dnevnik newspaper, it was interesting how the journalist Praprotnik, who happens to be now in this story in Finland, how he's been monitoring, predicting what's going to happen, even coming with unfounded facts, with untruths. I ask you where that transparency was back then, at a time when you had all this responsibility. And I'm really surprised after three years of signing the contract, you're the president of the Defence Committee, you're still wondering how much armor is going to cost: 278 million euros along with an information communication package. I think everyone in Slovenia already knows, except you, who is the chairman of the Defence Committee. But I don't believe that you don't know, I know that you know very well, and you also know very well how much profits have been lost by a bidder who hasn't been chosen, and this grieves you. Therefore, I say that the LDS party has always been interested in cancelling this contract because also during the LDS rule, the LDS minister with the LDS official on the other hand signed this letter of intent. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, I've never been a member, and you know it! [[...]] But it is also typical of a LDS client when they lack arguments when they run out of evidence that personal discredits are being pursued. This is very good in addition to Mr Anderlich, Mr Petek of Maribor, who is very concerned about the pensioners, but during your term the pensioners lost two and a half pensions. That's what you did. In this mandate, at least we have retained real value and I do not know if this bothers you because I am committed to improving the situation of pensioners. You don't have to laugh at anything. These are serious questions. You guys can have fun. We'll see how you laugh on September 21st. I was wondering when we'd meet at Cankar's house if you'd have a smile like that. As far as the contract is concerned. The delegation, unfortunately, is no longer here, although they still have a few minutes from the party Zares, Mrs Orzmova, constantly asks how many contracts there were. One contract was concluded. Between the Ministry of Defense and Rotis. Rotis was chosen because he was the best bidder. He had representation on Patrie's side. Not on our request, but Patricia told us, because they're agents. As is possible the Autocommerce representative for the Mercedes and some other company for another company. I am surprised that the LDS, as such an economic party, a party to capital, does not know how to do business in Slovenia. That they have these multinationals, these big companies always have their own representatives in Slovenia. There's a lot of your colleagues running these companies. I'm so surprised you want to make a problem out of this. I told you about the contract. There's one. Second, where there are three signatures, the signature of the Minister of Defence, the signature of Črnkovic, the director of Rotis, and the signature of Wiitacorpi, is said to be former director of Patrie, who has not been suspended by the minister, as he wants to deceive the Slovenian public, because he was here in Slovenia and said that for personal reasons he resigned - I think we have to respect his personal decision and this is an agreement that is annexed to the contract and that talks about the counter-winning and involvement of the Slovenian industry in the production of these armors and also that it will be set up in Slovenia. You, Mr Anderlich, remember very well the discussions on the Defence Committee when you claimed that these factories would never happen in this factory, and you know that the factory is standing in Scotland. We could've seen that there wasn't! [[...]] That's what you said, look at the magnetograms! I'm sorry your memory's leaving you, but you actually said that this factory wasn't made there. Ask your colleagues from the Defence Committee. I am glad that in Šostanje, this factory is that Slovenian workers are employed, that Slovenia has received one new factory, a quality factory; that Gorenje is one of the best companies in Slovenia, the most pervasive, which really struggles with global competition, because in the area of white technology, competition is very hard. And at that time, it was very insulting of some people to talk about Gorenje - what are you and the refrigerators going to be making armors, where have we seen it? I must say that production is running well and I am counting on them to meet all contractual obligations successfully. Then what you're telling me is that I've been writing to the president of the National Assembly to prevent you from looking into the files. I mean, it's the funniest thing I've ever heard. No, that's not why I wrote it. No, no. I wrote because it was the first time it happened when it was necessary to decide what "business secret" means. Do Members have the right to look into a business secret that is protected under the Company Act? This was the first such case in Slovenia and therefore I wrote to the President of the National Assembly to give an interpretation of how it was done. Because we didn't have the right from Patrie to reveal these business secrets. Mr. Anderlich, I'm asking you to calm down. Don't wave all the time, but! No, but because you're waving, I don't know what. I hope you're not threatening me. I hope you're not threatening me because I'm already used to it by some of your members. Yeah, well, I've given you a perfectly legitimate indictment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u195	I'd like to ask Mr. Anderlich, because you'll have a chance of replicating if you want. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u196	Do you have any idea why I've been imprisoning Ambassador Anderlich? Because he discovered an internal secret. Don't you? You discovered, you asked me if we had a wiretap, I told you we had one, and it was a degree of confidentiality. And you have made a press conference and said that the Slovenian Army has it and God knows if it is not doing the same thing in Owl to listen to it in Slovenia. And you knew exactly that this device was used exclusively on missions to listen to any visuals of the operation of our soldiers. And that was a very bad thing when you discovered this data because in Kosovo, where this listening device was, we were no longer able to provide security for soldiers when they leave the camp. But you're very irresponsible, look, you're very irresponsible, so you did it because you were sorry later. I think you're sorry too today. But let's get back to business secrets. I just wanted an interpretation by the President of the National Assembly as to how it is. He said we could expose it, and you know you came to the Ministry of Defence, the entire Defence Committee, reviewing all the documents, from offer to contract, whatever you wanted. There were, I don't know, ten of our experts because it's technically very complicated, which have been very detailed. And when we finished this review, there was also a press conference at Peri's Hall and you said there was nothing wrong. But when you stepped out of the Ministry of Defense, you changed your statement. And this video, I hope that TV Slovenia has it, that it will again see how you always reverse the facts, how you deceive and so on. That means we've shown all the documents and we're not hiding anything. Of course, we cannot disclose all this to the Slovenian public. You probably do not expect the Minister of Defence to reveal to the Slovenian public and the world public what anti-mine protection we have on these vehicles, which we have further reinforced. You probably don't expect us to put it online, that every terrorist that works, for example, in Afghanistan or anywhere else, just look at the website, you calculated how many kilograms of explosives it takes - and of course, life will go away. Yeah, that's what you're asking me to do when you're saying that all the data has to be disclosed because taxpayers have the right to be aware of everything. You keep saying that as a thesis. But look, I stopped by to say it again, and this deal has been the most transparent business ever. We've been talking about him for three years. The judicial authorities have also established, for example, a temporary order to suspend the proceedings was rejected at the first stage and also at the second stage. The audit at the Administrative Court was dismissed and so on. Those authorities that can make any decision in this matter have decided, and that is always in the interests of the Ministry of Defence. You continue to claim that there is no control, that it was not transparent, that everything is wrong with this business. I say this has been the most transparent business ever. I don't believe there's any more corruption. I know it's a bold statement, but since this journalist who refers to Patrie's documents claims to be protecting the source, what does he have to do to protect Patrio! The document should show, and today I would end in five minutes and probably LDS would have twice as much support as DeSUS does if it were true what Slovenian public wants to see. Thus I must say that I am sorry that I have had to put so much effort into this empty matter for three years because we see that the treaty is in accordance with the laws, transparent, never under such a watchful eye was any treaty in the defence field. And you heard how the tanks were modernized. I don't know why they got pillatus. The Secretary-General of NATO always tells me that we have the most expensive aviation school among NATO liaison members. But that was at a time when you had authority and even your ministers were in that position. Because I understand a little bit about these persistent attacks on me, including the discredits that are happening, but you know how it is, in the end, honesty and truth always win.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u197	Thank you. I would only point out that now that we have concluded the general debate, there is still a debate on the conclusions and amendments to these decisions. Even Mr. Marolt made a statement on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Since the State Prosecutor's Office has already been mentioned several times today, I would like to explain something further. It is very clear from the report on the work of the State Prosecutor, which is based on indisputable facts, that the State Prosecutor, who is responsible for handling this case - is a senior state prosecutor and not a state prosecutor - he has been actively, intensively, professionally and responsibly involved with all investigators in the case, both with the Slovenian police and with Finnish investigators. We're sure she'll do it in the future. However, it is necessary to know that no one in the rule of law can expect the state's attorney to act on the wishes of anyone. The Public Prosecutor's Office may act only on the basis of the law and in accordance with the facts provided. Since, despite the very clear reports you have, honourable Members, honourable Members, the Attorney-General of the State has presented to you yesterday in the National Assembly, there are continuing reports at the expense of the work of the state prosecutors in this case, it should be reiterated that the Prosecutors in all cases, in all cases, not only in a specific case, are acting in accordance with the established factual situation and in accordance with the legal powers. Inadequate comparisons allowed by some opposition Members in relation to the work of state prosecutors, expecting state prosecutors to act in accordance with their wishes, require a very serious protest and clarification that Members or politicians do not have the authority and the necessary knowledge to assess their professional and responsible work. The work of state prosecutors is fully subject to scrutiny, which the law provides very clearly and very precisely for their independence. But in this control, honourable Members, you have no role to play. Given the fact that the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission has repeatedly been told in the National Assembly and in the public that neither Slovenian State Prosecutors nor Slovenian Police have been informed of any suspected crimes, it should be made very clear that it was his legal duty to do so. In doing so, I would refer once again to Article 145 of the current Criminal Procedure Act, which provides very clearly in paragraph 1, that all State authorities, including the anti-corruption commission and organisations with public powers, are obliged to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, if they are informed or otherwise aware of them. The second paragraph also provides that, at the same time as the complaint, the authorities and organisations referred to in the preceding paragraph must state the evidence they know about and ensure that traces of the crime and the cases on which the offence was committed and other evidence are maintained. This is the applicable law on criminal proceedings adopted in the National Assembly. We are therefore uncomfortablely surprised that the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission does not respect the institutions of his own country and, instead, does not hand over the data to the competent authorities in Slovenia, but goes to Finland and provides the data exclusively in Finland. This is what the police report you received, honourable Members. Even after his visit to Finland, he does not inform the competent authorities there. Therefore, do not ensure the enforcement of the applicable law on criminal proceedings. Accusation of not doing their job by state prosecutors just because they follow professional criteria and do not inform the public about the pre-trial proceedings is misleading and malicious. We therefore strongly protest the labelling of the Attorney General and other state prosecutors by means of a political omen, as they carry out their work professionally and would expect at least those who act or act in the State Prosecutor's Office to measure their work with the same vat. We know that it is publicly known that the former Attorney General was politically active, but no one claimed that the state's attorneys acted politically. One of the state's prosecutors, the current state's prosecutors, is represented in one of the opposition's political options as a candidate for the Minister of the Interior, and no one gives her any political labels. In view of the above, we can say that this is unfair and intellectually unfair and discriminatory, as you have taken the opposition MPs into your hands today, and you are reading and criticising the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. Once again, the country is made up of institutions and each institution has its own real and local authority. The institutions of the rule of law are created to exempt matters from the sphere of irrationality and to be resolved in a rational manner under a prescribed protocol. Unwarranted claims, confabulations, neurotic and psychotic expectations, instigations and others from the area of irrational by the prosecution cannot be commented on without risking being lowered to the same level. This is where the detention of the prosecution and the criminals in this case comes from. Prosecutors are aware that the public is interested in prosecutorial work, but the prosecution cannot go into media stories. Prosecutors are only interested in facts, so the prosecution acted in a specific case, as it is, in accordance with the law and jurisdiction, and will continue to do so. One of the opposition MPs had previously pointed out or asked what had happened to some past affairs. Clearly, the opposition Members forget that in 1994, 1995, when you were in power, in those years when you were in power, in Slovenia you caused a reckless judicial reform of the judicial backlog. These are facts; facts, evidentiary, generally known. That's what you caused. Then you made some attempts to eliminate the judicial backlogs, and of course the consequences of the judicial backlogs were also that many reverberating, important cases were also obsolete. You have caused this, this has been irrefutablely proven, even in specific court proceedings. And only this government, just now, has the Ministry of Justice and the Government embarked on programmes for the abolition of judicial backlogs. And this programme is being implemented actively and intensively. And we have also formatted the records in the courts, including so that the proceedings in the courts are transparent, transparent, in cooperation with the Supreme Court. You are also obviously forgetting that in this mandate we have prepared a number of amendments to both the State Prosecutor's Office Act and the Criminal Procedure Act, which have strengthened the powers of the State Prosecutor's Group on Special Matters, and this law has ensured the effective professional functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office in the field of prosecution of organised crime and corruption crimes. You obviously forget that you have opposed the amendment of this legislation to improve the effectiveness of justice, to improve the efficiency of the prosecutions. For we must stress that this amendment of the law makes the group responsible for the effective detection of crimes in the field of organised classical and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other crimes, whose detection and prosecution require particular organisation and competence. You are forgetting that we have also established a specialized department within the U.S. Attorney's Office, which began operating in November of last year, all in order to effectively detect crimes. And the opposition opposed it in the vote! And it is only now that this change provides for effective and independent or impartial detection and prosecution of perpetrators of crimes that are members or officials of the police, the military police, intelligence and security services or are on mission. Similarly, the Criminal Procedure Act has been amended, all with a view to effective detection and prosecution of criminal offences. And apparently, honourable Members and honourable Members of the opposition, you forget that you have opposed the adoption of a new modern criminal code. It's undeniably proven. These are the facts, in this national council! And with the new criminal code, we have also established new crimes, more than seven new crimes in the area of corruption, economic crime, organised crime - and the opposition has opposed them. So the opposition has no interest, it has no purpose to prosecute: the prosecution, the police and the court can effectively and responsibly and professionally detect and prosecute the most serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u199	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Mate has also come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In the last two, three hours, there have been quite a few observations made to the police, to the incompetence, to the irresponsibility, and to the fact that everything is going elsewhere in the most beautiful order and as it should be. In the introductory presentation, I did not read the whole report on purpose because I assumed that all Members were so conscientious as to read it. However, one more point needs to be stressed in this report. It is necessary to say what the Slovenian police have done and what the reaction of the Slovenian police has been from the moment the first activities began in Finland. The police, on their own, as soon as they detected this information regarding Patrie's staff, made contact with Interpol Finland, which is the usual way of communicating, and then acquired data and windows all activities for cooperation and the establishment of a joint investigation team that is now in operation. Obviously, someone doesn't want this team to do what needs to be done. Today, we can witness some events that revolve at incredible speeds. First, the director of pPlicia ordered internal supervision of the work of the Crime Police Administration. Of course, when we found out with the control that I had ordered that there had been a mistake, we made it public. We told the public right away. We didn't hide anything, we didn't hide anything. We said that there had been a mistake and the director ordered detailed supervision on this basis, his control to determine exactly what was going on. Today, the director received this report in the afternoon and, of course, also presented it at the press conference and also answered some other questions to the media. However, of course, this report needs to be made very clear about how things have been going on with regard to this dispatch, which is now the biggest problem and which, in the opinion of some Members, poses a serious threat to the criminal investigation. But they won't tell us where. In Finland? In Austria? Which state sent the first Interpol dispatch? Austria. It was sent to obtain information so that it could conduct an investigation in the territory of Austria. I don't know why some MEPs keep saying how some other police will be perfect, gold, uncorrupted, in short, the only one in the world who knows how to deal with corruption, that it will detect all the crime of corruption in Austria, Slovenia, and I don't know where yet. He won't be here. Dear Members, there won't be any! This can only be done in this country by the police and the prosecution and no other police and no other prosecution from any Member State can reveal this here. There is no legal basis and there is no basis for doing so. So I'm surprised that in this pre-election period, you attack with such ease that our police are unprofessional, unprofessional, they know nothing, they're all worthless; and yet, in this term, this police has increased the investigation, dramatically increased compared to the years before 2004 - and that counts nothing! Because then someone says it's just statistics that don't mean anything. But if we go back to internal control that was determined by the Director-General and that I'm familiar with. First, explain how Interpol dispatches are taking place. When a country sends a technical dispatch to several countries, all these countries receive this dispatch and each reply sent by that country goes to all the addresses listed in the original dispatch. So it's a data exchange between all these countries. Here came three depots by the Austrian Interpol and two responses by Liechtenstein and by Canada. And the last answer came from Slovenia with a year and a few months late. That's right. That's a mistake. They were finding out why, and so far they found out that the dispatcher had arrived 21. 2. 2007 that it was 22. 2. entered into Lotus Notes, it is said in a tool, an environment where all matters are recorded, and it has been assigned to one official. I'm not gonna use names to protect personal data. And so the department manager on that day or the next day, I don't have a date here, reassigned this matter to another official. Why the other officer? The explanation given to supervisors is that this gentleman had previously worked in and before 2007 in the economic crime sector and was, of course, better acquainted with these matters than this official, who is said to have not worked in these areas before. And of course, with this, the head of this department evidently calculated that the work would be more transparent. Next came these dispatches, these answers - practically every month something came up. And this gentleman put it properly in a folder, opened a file, but he did not do what was most important: he did not send these depots to the operational part of the criminal service, which must start with activities and data acquisition. Then, of course, what happened, by taking the liberty of two Finnish citizens in Finland, who, by the way, never responded to this Austrian dispatch and, of course, did not give the Austrians any data to conduct an investigation in Austria - there was the first suspicion of these acts. And then, suddenly, someone magically jumped and responded to the Austrian Interpol. That's two clear questions. It is a matter of extreme negligence, a serious negligence at work, or a deliberate act; there is no other answer. There's no other answer. And the Director has already ordered an internal protective measure to determine in detail what this is all about. And, of course, if it is a crime, if it is a plot pursued under official responsibility, this case will be transferred from the police to the State Prosecutor's Office, to a special group of police officers acting within the State Prosecutor's Office for the prosecution of criminal offences committed by official authorised cases. It's gonna get to the bottom of this. However, if we are talking about the professionalism of both police, it would be very interesting and instructive, including you who are unfortunately sitting here today and listening to these discussions, all of you and of course us, to follow the statements made today by the media both in Slovenia and in Finland. From these statements, it can be very clear that the Director of the Slovenian Police, when performing in Radiotelevision Studio 1 of the programme, on the Dnevnik, has very correct and professionally protected all the information which he cannot tell and has not spoken about any operational matter. For the same performance, which was played a few seconds before by the main investigator in Finland, it would be very difficult to say that it was such a difficult thing. He directly accused and talked about operational data and said things where he now wants to overcome some of the inactions arising from the control that I ordered Finland not to do; and responding to the words I said to the Slovenian media, that the Finnish police did not respond to multiple calls - not a single call, to some of the letters that were sent - and where concrete evidence was required that the investigation could be conducted here. And if, of course, they have this evidence, then, of course, in this cooperation, we should hand them over to the Slovenian police if they want this investigation to end in Slovenia as well, and if they want any evidence that exists in Slovenia to be transferred to Finland and that they could be completed. However, there were no such answers. Moreover, it seems that Slovenian journalists had a dispatch or a letter sent by Interpol Austria to Slovenia and to other countries. Finally, Slovenian media also published this on websites and also in newspapers. However, this document was apparently available long before, and they were waiting for it to be an appropriate time. And then the Members accuse us that the government has staged Patrio's show in Finland to make us martyrs. This is exactly what one of the MPs said half an hour ago that they were nothing, they know nothing; I don't know, maybe one of their MPs dropped out at that time, who led the previous investigative commission and never made a statement and accused anyone. It is clear that this Slovenian journalist has clearly shown this document to Finnish investigators, and it follows that it is now claimed that the Slovenian police are fully acting unprofessionally and discloses data that they should not have. In the system internal control clearly showed that the case was assigned to one person, all the files were in it, the superior did not exercise control over it. Other people in the system have not been informed of this dispatch; and thank God we have computers. If someone threw this file in a drawer 30 years ago, they would never know we got this dispatch until someone from abroad brought us this document. Only because everything is in electronic form could it be found otherwise that something is wrong. It is one individual’s gross negligence and, of course, it can be slander. And given that apparently some other persons in Slovenia had certain information that they should not have - so, by the way, the anti-corruption commission led by Mr Kos is not the address of Interpol's dispatch and does not have the right to information from Interpol's depots. So it was repeatedly mixed here that they were an organ that could. No, they're not an organ that can see that! Just like it's not a justice department, an authority that can see it! Exactly who he is, who can get these dispatches into his hands and what he has to do about them. And, of course, it is very difficult now to be in a situation where the media is trying to create a situation where the police are not cooperating and that they are trying to create a situation that will make it difficult for the police to participate in the future. I will do everything and instruct the Director of Police not to do so and that our affairs will proceed properly. At this time, from May until now, it has been exchanged with Finnish criminals - that no one will claim that there is no cooperation - 35 different operational information, with Austrians more than ten forms of operational information, has also been exchanged by some electronic media providers on which data is provided. The materials that the investigative commission and its president were obliged by law to hand over to the police were affected, but they were not. Apparently, he introduced them to some other police outside the country and he was there as chairman of the Commission and president of GRECA. That's what it says in control. I don't know what it says in there, because I don't have access to this operational data. All I know is what the surveillance report says. And in the report on the surveillance of the criminal police, which was carried out and where there is no operational data, as it is not in the paper you received, it is very clear. And one of the Members read only the last part of the paragraph in a very interesting way and interpreted it as he thought it was necessary to interpret it. However, it is necessary to look at the whole paragraph and then find out what it is. Then we see that the month of April 2008 - this is not really what I am telling you, but the viewers who may be monitoring what we are talking about here, and they do not have this document before them, which is why I can talk about it, where it says that in April 2008 the President of the anti-corruption commission Drago Kos was in Finland because of the hearing and handed over a particular dossier that he did not wish to submit to Slovenian investigators. He wouldn't turn her in! I've already told you twice, and audiences and viewers have a right to know. For the first time, I received a question in June, where, miraculously, everyone knew about a dispatch that I didn't even know existed. The director couldn't explain anything to me about her either, because he didn't know it existed. Police Director! Nobody knew. But the Members of one parliamentary group knew miraculously that there was something that we did not respond to, that we were not doing anything, that the police in Slovenia were sleeping, and that they were saying how this President of the anti-corruption commission is the only fighter in this country that is fighting corruption and also working with foreigners. After we requested it in writing, we asked the Anti-Corruption Commission in writing to obtain information on which we found that some documentation existed by means of informational interviews and information that they had apparently received from abroad. And what happened? The answer was that they had some amount of material that police officers could come to look at, so, affectionately, and that the Commission had never dealt with the Patrio issue. And the police didn't get this material like they were supposed to, but they had to come to the commission and take these documents. Sad enough. If anyone imagines that in this way he will successfully fight corruption in this country and at the same time lead the GRECO organisation at European level, he is in a big, big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u201	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u202	I would ask Mr Mate to correct the minutes because he must have made a mistake. You said the president of the investigative commission didn't give you any information and they had to be seized. In the first statement a few minutes ago. You meant the president of the anti-corruption commission, I suppose. Okay. It would be very good to explain, at the same time, Mr Plaussteiner's statements, which say that your allegations that the anti-corruption commission has illegally checked certain financial transactions, are unrealistic, malicious and without a basis. It's 3:30, so please consider, MNZ, the Ministry of Finance, who is now deceiving someone. I think there have been a lot of insinuations by Mr Mate today, I understand that Mr Kos is in his stomach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Janša also made a statement within the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr President, once again for your word. Today's debate was very interesting and in essence the continuation of what Slovenia has been monitoring since Monday onwards or since last Monday, from 1 September, when this absurd accusation was published without evidence. This indictment, as I said before, changed the situation in Slovenia, which is in a specific time before the elections. There must have been some sort of accident that happened. Some here have talked a lot about conspiracy theories. I do not believe that everything was organized, but I believe that some liked it very much when instead of taking over, which was one of the main themes of this election campaign, they started talking about Patria. And I'm sure a lot of subjects have taken an interest here. Instead of a debate that was also pre-eminent, but it's up-to-date, when there were some acquisitions, when someone got some millions or billions of assets, everything suddenly focused on another topic. It is very interesting how some in this excitement were active, what they were trying to do at that time. I spoke to the President of the Finnish Government one morning after this publication when they brought me the newspaper Dnevnik, which said, "The Finnish government does not see the political background of a resounding show." I asked the President of the Finnish Government whether the Finnish Government had really discussed this show and the political background and had fallen out of the chair. Someone made it all up and made it out of this conscience of the day. On Saturday, the newspaper, which was once the central Slovenian newspaper, published an exclusive news: "Karl Erjavec claims that the contract was shown to Janez Janša before the signature". I read Mr. Erjavac's statement. Everything he said was right. It doesn't say anywhere that Mr. Secretary says he showed me the contract before he signed it. Then I find out that the Ministry of Defence denied this, but I've been listening on the national radio all day: "Janez Janša saw the contract before the signature and it's not true what he said he didn't see the contract." It took three days for the repair to be published somewhere where it was very difficult to find. No excuses. The minister says the reporter told him he gave a different address, and then the editor changed it. Most Slovenian printed media are owned by two oligarchs. They had come to this property in a special way, apparently, and it was very appropriate for them to be moved to Patrio from the acquisitions. And much of what was in these newspapers in these last days or in the last week is certain or probably not motivated by motives, is not conditional, or these motives are not the same as those of those who spoke about this Finnish show, but have their own interest - to change the subject that was in some way unpleasant and where some things began to be cleared. Therefore, such addresses were created, so many quotations were made about what Finnish officials were supposed to say, and it turned out that this was not the case or that this was taken from the context. There are some small media in Slovenia that write differently and are the subject of strong accusations. Suddenly, those who have always accused this government of, I don't know, controlling the media and having problems with it, and that it's unworthy to discuss the media, at one point they're talking about the media the same way. Not about some, for example, less important ones, but apparently writing slightly differently. It's hard for me to follow, but there's a lot of excitement where there's competition. I think that this debate should continue, despite the fact that some do not. Here it was said how this coalition, part of which is also the Slovenian Democratic Party, prevented the work of the commission of inquiry in this case. What happened to the commission of inquiry, you know why people stepped out and so on. I have to say, I didn't follow the details, and I don't even know them, because I didn't have a minute to deal with it at the time. But I have read earlier what the former President of this commission of inquiry presented at a press conference, what this commission is supposed to propose. And now, let's say that this Commission would actually propose this report to the National Assembly. In these proposals, it is said that the National Assembly is unable to disprove the suspicion that there has been an irregularity in this purchase and so forth. I doubt that the National Assembly would have taken such decisions, and I would probably have rejected them. What an accusation that would have been! So there would be no difference even if this Commission had completed this report and proposed it to the National Assembly. So that this debate today would not have been without this broadcast, but that there would not have been all these accusations and diversions of these attentions if someone had left this commission to work to the end; whoever claims it is on very torn feet, surely. The key accusation made by the Member of the Social Democrats, although this party is said to have nothing to do with these accusations, in this broadcast on Finnish television, reads: "If at first it was the offer of 150 fully equipped armoured men, with the contract simply allowing you to calculate the price per piece, it is clear that Patria was at least EUR 50 million better at the end. We therefore find this unacceptable because the difference will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers." The Minister of Defence, the Government, indirectly or directly, accused Slovenian taxpayers of stealing EUR 50 million in the broadcast of Finnish television. And to tell you today that no one accused anything of just talking about the good weather there, but it's just a little bit of a bad idea, really. As I said before, I did not have time to follow up on what was going on in this area during the European Union's leadership, and before I listened to this debate in the office, I did not read any of these statements by the former President of the Commission of Inquiry, his client colleagues, and some of the others from the opposition, especially from Zares, one of the Members, and I was appalled. They have made horrendous accusations in hard form about how Slovenian taxpayers were robbed, and they are operated by a specific number of 50 million. The offer of the Systemic Technician, whose lawyer was the brother of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission or was, as the minister said, 20% more expensive. If that offer had been accepted, would we have damaged taxpayers for 60 million, or what? It's not about questions, it's not about suspicion, it's about explicit claims. These claims were also made directly on this Finnish show. And it is no coincidence that this Finnish television was used to say that they were recording and playing what people from Slovenia were saying. The next absurd accusation of someone who's even at the head of the state authority says, "Who's the one who's protecting him after they've threatened me so much?" This is a serious accusation. Excuse me if on our national television, the president of the German Anti-Corruption Office said that he was threatened in Germany, what would they think of this country? And he went on, "It wasn't a serious threat, because I'm used to them, and I know who those behind them are, but it was enough to find out that all my fears were when I asked this question, who they wanted to protect, who they wanted to hide..." And then the reporter said, "And who was it?" And the answer is, "You really don't think I'm going to talk about names, these are people who are very close to the top, because that's the point of the problem." And the sign on the screen: "J" capital. And then the journalist says, "J is Prime Minister Janez Janša." To say that no one in Slovenia on this show accused anything of having such a small conversation, which happened by accident, is just a little too severe. And when I read some other statements or a magnetogram of some of the shows that was published on this same television months ago, where the Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission also performed, and some of the Slovenian journalists who actually do this broadcast are the same charges. One of them even says, "This will be a very clever matter, especially because there will be elections in Slovenia soon." Actually, it's a prediction. So to say now that this broadcast, which was released on September 1st, had nothing to do with the Slovenian elections and that no one in Finland knew that the elections were going to be with us, is even more strange if we know what was in the previous broadcast. I'm sorry I didn't say this before, and I haven't even read all this stuff before. Some people from Finland told me that people from Slovenia come with various documents, which they also show to Finnish investigators, Finnish journalists. Mr Pece had previously given a document to the President of the National Assembly, and he also pointed out that I had listened to it in the office where my signature was copied, the printer, and it was supposed to be 7.9.1991. "In view of the military-political situation in the friendly neighbouring Republic of Croatia, a decree on material assistance in military equipment and material to the Republic of Croatia was adopted by the senior management. By this decree, I hereby designate you as the responsible person in terms of the operational execution of the sale for us of the useless weapons of the former JLA. All operational tasks shall be carried out in the Kočevska Reka area, all material funds intended against payment of DEM 26 million. Pay for each convoy individually. Authorized person - Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Zdravko Beschen" [[Never heard of]] "Please report to me personally on the performance of this task. Janez Janša, Minister." This is one of the documents or one of the forgeries from the Depala Village forgeries. Mr Pece brought an additional fingerprint of the people who were already at the Depala village. And that was then found by the procedure that had just taken place. If someone takes this to Finland, where they don't know about Depalo you, they don't know that it's been found to be a forgery, they'll have an opinion there. If something like this has been given to a Finnish journalist, then he can claim that he has some evidence. These are the same fingerprints as the structures of the past. I've heard at least 10 times before from the opposition members, how to believe the credibility of this programme on Finnish television. These are different standards and so on. This same programme, which published this broadcast, was already in breach of the journalistic code on the Finnish Press Court’s website in 2004, when they also accused someone without evidence and found that they had acted in the wrong way and had given a warning. So much for the credibility to believe in because it's some Finland. I was directly appalled when I listened earlier to the performance by Ambassador Zares, elected on the list of LDS while she was talking about how the Slovenian State Prosecutor's Office was politicised. In fact, I almost didn't believe what I heard. This same Member hosted his parliamentary evenings, Mr Kos, and the big posters were hanging around the Domžals, but it doesn't matter. I have only learned today that this case is not led by the Attorney General, but by the Attorney General, I think it is written by Mrs Zobbe Hrastar. If I were to judge on the same insinuations as they were pronounced here, I would be directly appalled at that last name. The lady is the wife of a man who arrested me by hand 20 years ago. And that's not why I don't believe in her professional work. It is in a picture published a hundred thousand times in various publications, taking me from Cankarjev to the hearing. Do not question the work of organs without any basis. Just because it suits someone. Yesterday and today we also reviewed all the notes on the talks between me, ministers or talks between me and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Finnish colleagues at similar levels. There have been many bilateral contacts in this mandate, Finland chaired the European Union in 2006, and we presided this year. There's been a lot of exchanges. I've been to Finland five times this time. Here was the Finnish President, who was the President of the Finnish Parliament, and I do not know how many bilaterals were with the Prime Minister of Finland. In any of these conversations, no one mentioned Patrie and this business. With one exception. 26. 2. 2007 was visited in Slovenia by the President of the Finnish Parliament, Mr Lipponen, former Prime Minister and holder of various functions. The director of Finnish television was, as it was written, his advisor sometimes. But it doesn't matter. It is important that this is the only case, the only conversation where this purchase was mentioned, namely, I will read the note directly: "The President of the Parliament Lipponen expressed satisfaction at the conclusion of the supply deal for the Finnish Patria armouredmen and stressed its European dimension. Patria is partly owned by the European EADS Group. He also mentioned the U.S. dirty campaign in this regard." My reply was that the procedure was carried out in accordance with the procedure and concluded at the Ministry of Defence and that the Slovenian military also needed these funds for peacekeeping missions. This is the only case where I have talked directly or directly to any representative of Finland about this matter and it is verifiable. In this debate, I listened to all or read the magnetograms, there were many statements that are in line with that formula: first the discreditation and then the liquidation. And I'm not gonna answer that, because it's been happening all along. However, I was very disturbed by the fact that some Members were pleased to read what was said in foreign newspapers. I've also seen one of the TV logs before, where they report what foreign newspapers say about this matter. And I really don't understand how someone can enjoy it. That someone can read with pleasure how someone abroad writes ugly about Slovenia. This must indeed be a perverse logic, which certainly does not belong to this Parliament. Most of all, I found today interesting after some of the conclusions made here by representatives or the leaders of some parliamentary groups, in this sense, as if the government or the government coalition would start this debate. That was amazing. I think it was even said, like they were making me the whole story. First, according to a public opinion on 1 September 2008, even if someone attributed bad intentions to us, there was no need for any affair. Perhaps someone else had such needs because people began to realistically compare programs, promises, made human resources offerings, confrontations, and perhaps someone else became panicked. We certainly did not have any need to move the debate from the real themes and problems on Patria. Remember what happened after September 1st, the one you say we cooked this thing: coalition, Slovenian Democratic Party, Government. Look back what you were saying. You asked me to step down. No one said to put the evidence on the table and, if there is any evidence, let the Prime Minister resign. She was a party who wrote a request for a withdrawal two hours after that broadcast. Minister Erjavac has been summoned before. Mr Kos, President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, threatened the government and also the Slovenian Democratic Party in the face of Mr Zammernik on TV last November: "Just wait, you will see in six months at the latest that you can be rightly nervous." This can be seen because it's in the archives of national television, on the website, this threat. It's not that simple. And this person certainly did not do so according to our commission, as almost some have tried to show here. I have received a letter from a youth of Social Democrats the next day when this broadcast was released, with some disgust at how I feel as Prime Minister of the Government regarding these accusations, what I will do to protect the state's reputation. That note also said I had to step down. Social Democrats today say they have nothing to do with this. They didn't say anything about it. On commercial television, I stood behind the counter for two hours fighting for my word. Now four or five, including one of the coalition, have accused me there and tried to substantiate these accusations, which were published on September 1st. Today they say there was nothing like me accusing myself there. Today I have seen that he had a opposition troika that says he will form a government, even if he loses the elections, a press conference where they say, and why we are even discussing this, Slovenia does not deserve a political situation where there will be extraordinary meetings. Who caused this situation, then, to respect their opposition colleagues? It is not only what has been stated in this broadcast, but also what has been said in the last six months. According to my sources from Finland, two people from this country, one of these people sitting here, kept calling there. All the time. Now there's a rumor that this came from Finland. First, it was imported there, exactly the same as in the Vič-Holmec affair, where Austrian television published the indictment, and then things were discussed here. This is also to be said, although the Minister has partly explained and now the proposaler has spoken about it, but some Members have said that the first decision proposed here by the motioners is absurd. Who, though, can object to a public invitation to tender for this purchase?Oh, my God! There are those who oppose. The unelected tenderer filed an action against the State and demanded that Slovenian taxpayers pay EUR 5 million 600 000 for the tender. As early as last year, an action was brought against the State and taxpayers were asked to pay them EUR 5 million 600 000 because there was no realisation of a letter of intent signed by the previous Government with the Systemic technique before the new government was formed and they were promised this deal without a call for tender. And now they're suing the Ministry of Defence for issuing a public tender. So this first point or first decision is very justified in this regard in my opinion. Unless we agree to publish invitations to tender for such purchases. It wasn't a practice before. A letter of intent was signed and it went away. And without this part of the story you can't understand the sequel, you can't understand the lawsuits, the anger, all the circus we had with it. Why did the Council of the Slovenian Democratic Party talk about this? Because we were in a specific situation in 2006 because protests took place in Koroška, when the government ignored domestic companies, there were local elections in 2006. Our colleagues from Koroška were just asking what this is. These things had to be explained. This was a political story from the very beginning, but no Slovenian Democratic Party authority has made any decision in these matters. This is also true in the reports that have summarized the President of our Council. But it was a lot of fun today. Things were just ridiculous. I even heard a few days ago from the Director of Systemic Technology that there is no evidence that I would have been directly involved in any way, but that he believed that this was the case, because my married witness was involved in the selection process. I don't have a wedding witness yet, I haven't been married yet, so Mr Schweiger will have to wait a little longer. That's what I'm saying to cartoon this absurdity. And that came out quietly and spread all over the place. It all worked out for these people just to discredit someone. But no matter what has now been said during the day in these debates, I remain at this offer, which was made in the beginning. Let's stop this debate. Until the elections, there is enough time to discuss those topics that will decide on people's lives over the next four years. As I said earlier, in six months no one will discuss Patria, but they will be very important taxes, salaries, pensions, decentralisation of the country, infrastructure, investment in state roads and all that we still have to do for the future. And it is a shame if a productive time of debate in a pre-election campaign is not meant to do so. If today's three-way press conference from the opposition has been taken seriously, at least as far as my party is concerned, we will no longer go and answer these debates, but if the opposition will do the same. But not to expect us not to defend ourselves against such absurd accusations. I had a feeling when I listened to some of the debates that some of them had resented us, even to me personally, because we were defending ourselves. I felt deeply offended in the voice of some Members when we found that we were defending ourselves against these accusations, as if we should accept all that happened, set up another face, ask our opposition colleagues to hit us hard, and then thank them. I'm sorry, we didn't do this and we won't do it in the future because she went a little over the edge. We are in the midst of the most dirty campaign of pre-election since Slovenia existed, even if we count the first elections. We have a few more days to fix this impression. Our offer remains, there are many things that still need to be rethought in these performances, but unfortunately we are not the ones who can influence what bearable themes will be in the future. Perhaps, however, hope dies last, but it may still be possible to combine some constructive approach and to change this debate. So much for me. In this week or since 1 September, the government has been drawn into a specific situation. I've talked to a lot of my colleagues across Europe, and they don't remember anyone ever doing anything like this. They do not recall any similar situation in their country just before the elections. This has, of course, also brought about the fact that we have less time to deal with things that must also run normally throughout this time. We don't just have this task of going to the hearings, but we answer absurd accusations, and we're calling for resignations. There's still a lot to do every week. Even that week, when the elections are held, it is necessary to regulate matters that allow life in this country to run normally. And that is why we limit things that are political to politics. What is under the authority of the authorities who are called to clear things up is left to them. And let us not sow doubts in advance at their work. This is a bad trip to a legal country and certainly the state prosecutor, the police and all those who care about the implementation of laws in Slovenia do not deserve it. This is a bad signal and it is certainly the National Assembly last place from which it is appropriate that such signals come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u205	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since Mr Janez Janša mentioned me, I should say the following about my statements on Finnish state television. Firstly, if this business were really the most transparent, then in Finland we would not have arrested, held prisoners and not have been dismissed by Director Patrie. These are the facts. If this deal were the most transparent, then the assessment of the investigative commission I led would not have come across a major attack by Patria in April this year. April this year, if you look at the video clips, the attack on the findings of the parliamentary commission of inquiry was launched by those who had the greatest profit from this. And in May, a few weeks later, arrests took place. If this business were the most transparent, then there would be no arrests. But it's a deal and a commission story. And these commissions came to Slovenia. That's why Mr. Leban hired Cheferin's law firm. That's why we have a show on Finnish state television. The broadcast on Finnish state television took place 12 days after the replacement of Director Patria and, if you want, look at the events in Finland, the completion of the six-month cleansing process within Patria, when it was found that commissioning was unacceptable for Finland, in the way it was done in Egypt's business and as it wanted in the Slovenian business. These are the facts, Janez Janša. And you had the opportunity, like Janez Janša and as Prime Minister of the Government, to come to the parliamentary commission of inquiry three times to say what you know about this and about the links between this business and business in the period 1991-1994. You haven't responded twice, the third time we gave you the opportunity, tell me when you can come after July 1st, there's been a change in the parliamentary commission of inquiry. These are the facts. If this business were the most transparent, Finnish police would not cooperate with the parliamentary investigative commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u207	Mr. Squeakl, it's time for the replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u208	I conclude, Mr. President. I just want to tell Mr. Janez Janša if you've just woken up when I said what I said in April this year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u209	Mr. Squeakle, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u210	I told you on Finnish state television, and then you don't know what the ministers are doing to you, and that's why you're objectively responsible. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u211	At the conclusion of the general debate, the applicant shall also have the floor. Mr. Tanko. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u212	Look, I think that Mr Squeakl has now succeeded in overcoming all that Mr Ptrč had previously explained to him. Social Democrats are not only Mr Potsch and some good people, but also Mr Squeakl, Mr Rob and everyone else. He just can't get out of his skin. Today it has been confirmed several times, and now he himself has admitted that he has made a significant contribution to what has happened on Finnish television and has once again demonstrated with nothing the reality of these claims of 50 million euros in damage, with nothing. It's two separate cases. One issue is the purchase that took place in Slovenia, on which there was an international tender, and the other is the investigation in Patria. And to claim that the purchase was inappropriate because it was an international tender because the rules of the game were clear and transparent and because the chosen bidder, which was 12 to 18% cheaper, was turned down. To claim that an attack came from Finland because Mr Squeakl was investigating this story and finally came to a conclusion which I have repeated several times that he cannot confirm or confirm the suspicion. I'm sorry, but what's the conclusion is that it's impossible not to confirm, not to contradict suspicion. That's fucked up, too. The gentlemen from Finland then answered, and we know why. This is because the Commission of Inquiry has hired an expert who is employed at the top of a competing company. It was reiterated that Mr Wiitacorpi was suspended from his post by the Finnish Minister. No, Mr Wiitacorpi resigned and the claim was made: "The commissions have come to Slovenia." They may have come, but, Mr. Squeakle, put on the table the evidence: to whom, to what height, and who received them. This will be a matter of judgment when this investigation is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u213	Thank you. Since we have concluded the general debate, we are moving on to a debate on the third decision and on the three amendments tabled to this Decision. The first is proposed by the LDS Group, the second Really and the third SDS, NSI and DeSUS. All three amendments are such that they are mutually exclusive. If one is accepted, the other two are irrelevant. I am therefore opening an application for a debate on the third decision and amendments to this Decision. Of course, only those who have time at their disposal can apply. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u214	Alone and colleagues will support the decision proposed by fellow Members of the Liberal Democracy Club. The point is, it's clearly clear. On Friday evening, it was confirmed in Mr Leban's phone record that a commission of about a quarter of a million euros had already been paid and that the contract has an amount of 860 thousand euros or a poor million euros for so-called counter-supply. And that this happened before the first anti-enforcement was reported to Finland. And this poor million euro is a fraction of the so-called 21 million in Finnish state television. And on transactions that went against Austria from Finland, which no one denied, no one denied that these transactions had reached Austria. And no one denies that Mr Wolf has raised EUR 300,000 north of the Schengen border, this poor million euro is the first part of the total fees of EUR 21 million. And if you look at why the Finnish police carried out the corruption procedure in the case of the Egyptian business, then you will see that one part goes against those who carry out the business and the other part goes against the so-called intermediaries. And we have been saying since the beginning of this business that intermediaries are unnecessary, especially because in the analysis we have found that the Ministry has not bought any armoured persons under the terms of the offer, but that armoured persons are more expensive, less equipped, with longer delivery hands, and this is unacceptable for Slovenian taxpayers. I therefore propose that this decision be supported, but at the same time, in particular so as not to raise any further doubts as to whether the documents shown by Janez Janša are genuine or not, removes the level of secrecy from all documents, including from the Gričar-Klavora report, which describes 110 business events involving more than half of those sitting in this Chamber. And that's what this is all about. Support this decision if you hope, gentlemen, let's open the documents we've been locked down for years, and we'll all have the same documents and see if they are or aren't fingerprints up there.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u215	Thank you. The Minister, Mr Erjavec, also spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. I've got to take this, because the readings are too tight. The fact that we have damaged taxpayers for 50 million euros is not true. Firstly, we must tell taxpayers another one - because we have so far paid 35,000 euros in this military training business. That's the only amount we paid Patricia. And stop deceiving the Slovenian public! I must repeat once again that, given the offer made by Patricia for individual configurations, we have negotiated everywhere a lower price than the price offered. Look, that analysis was written by someone at the top of Viator&Vector. This expert, Preby, should be eliminated or should be eliminated if you know the CAP and if you were chairman of the commission of inquiry. And why didn't you rule him out if there was a conflict of interest? Because you do not know the law, or because you want to continue to deceive the Slovenian public. And I'm asking you to stop these lies. Seriously, stop it, because no one believes you anymore. 50 million euros, that's a lie! And you've been saying that for a year and a half. [[The ad in the hall.]] No, a year and a half.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u217	Thank you. I saw another hand. Anybody else want to discuss this? Only Mr. Sok raised his hand. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. As a former member of the Commission, I would like to add in a few sentences to what Mr Cwickl said, that everything he has said today in the National Assembly has in fact always been the subject of debate at the Commission itself. These insinuations, these insinuations and these claims were repeated all the time. Mr President has also repeatedly requested that all these offers, from all these materials, withdraw the degree of confidentiality. This has also been discussed on the Commission and, of course, has been explained several times that this is not up to us, because this is a matter of military affairs and that it is practically impossible to do so without the consent of the owner of all these patents, you cannot disclose all of this. Even later, when he appointed Mr Pribit as an expert with two other members of the committee, he was somehow trying to prove that he was not doing the right thing, because it was practically a matter for him to reveal some of the information that, in the opinion of the members of the Commission, this competition was not to be seen in such a way as he had afforded. And in fact, at some point I also assessed that there was no point in participating in such a committee, and I also suggested to the Group that I should be replaced, or that the Group of Members then decided that if the state of work in this Commission was such that I could also make my own decision and have given up. On the other hand, I would like to say that this is actually what will happen in the end, Mr President, in some way again and again on the commission, I would like to insinuate that there have been bribes to involve the government, from the defence ministry to the Prime Minister and so on. That's not new. And if we were to go through the scans of the work of this commission, of course, all of this would be in the magnetograms, the records of this commission have already been written down. I think and in New Slovenia we are convinced that with these discussions we do not contribute to any innovation in the Republic of Slovenia. It would be much better if this time to the elections were used, as the President of the Government had said earlier, for those essential questions that Slovenians and Slovenians would like answers: how will we live, what will be the social policy, what will the economy be like, how will we take care of state institutions, health care, education and so on. These would be the real questions, not that in the time before the elections with this kind of affair, we employ this media space and actually divert attention to something that, if we didn't have an election in 10 days or a good week, would actually be irrelevant in some way. But we can be aware that many more things can happen. Earlier, the President of the Government had said that he did not know the country in which such matters would take place before the elections. We know that in Spain, for example, before the elections, there was an assassination in Madrid. So, there's a lot more that can happen. And even with such matters you can change in some way the flow of events and get some electoral results, which is not right, is not good. As a member of New Slovenia, I hope that we will end this in some way, and if the left also wants election victories in this year's elections. I, as well as all of us involved, understand them, but if we were to win, then I would like this victory to be in a fair way, not in the way that you've dealt with it. I know this election is going to cost you a lot. When we drive through Slovenia, there is little if I look at Ljubljana, Maribor, a bus station where there is no poster, I don't know if Mr. Pahor or Mrs. Katarina Kresal. Of course, it costs a lot. You will probably have to pay this in some way and the great struggle is now to gain this power and then to pay back to those who are now greatly supporting you in some way. I hope that Slovenians and Slovenians will be wise enough and smart enough and that such a negative approach in Slovenia will no longer be able to win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u220	In explanation of this amendment, the Member of the Social Democrats used a condition "if" and what if it were or how you explain it and said that Mr Leban had received the commission. On Finnish television, however, a Social Democrats MP said that the government had damaged taxpayers for 50 million euros. And on the basis of this statement and some others, the journalist then concluded that Patria had bribed the President of the Government, not Mr Leban. We're talking about what started this story when it was published. 9th, who participated there and what statements were made. Here I see some attempt to change things, relativize them, at every call to give evidence, then another additional "if" is added. But also on the condition that taxpayers have been injured for 50 million, while Slovenia has so far paid 35,000 euros for the training of eight-wheeled soldiers, but it is a bit too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, the motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the conclusions of the opposition's parliamentary groups, but we will support the proposal signed by the three parliamentary groups, which, for the first time, call on the Ministry of Defence to immediately terminate the deal with Patrio in the event of any suspicion. And I think that the second part of this decision is extremely important, because the president of the anti-corruption commission has used extremely difficult words on Finnish television when he said that there are people around who are protecting him and who are also threatening to hide in this process, and he also said that he will not talk about names. The President of the authority first called in this country to investigate corruption is the one who insinuates and does not want to face public opposition, although he obviously has some evidence to speak of names. And by this conclusion, we urge him to publish immediately names that he obviously knows were threatening him and that they are also in the position of protecting someone. Otherwise, we propose that because it obviously does not perform its functions in the public interest, because it obviously does not implement the law, because even if it does, it does not initiate proceedings before the relevant authorities to leave or resign its function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u223	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the third decision and all three amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to warn you that the first two amendments were summarized after the review of the amendments tabled, but the third was the last one on the bench. We will first vote on the first amendment to the third decision proposed by the LDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on, please. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u224	I will support the amendment, especially for the second paragraph, because I think it is very valuable. And since it has been said many times today that many people don't know any similar country, I don't know any country where the coalition would solve the president of the commission of inquiry just because she doesn't like it, just because it's liquid, like they said, because it's not possible to work or anything like that. And since, of course, it was necessary to stop further work, any conclusions would have been reached. And because, I believe, it is in the best interest of the President of the Government to withdraw from these documents the markings that prevent the public from getting to know - these are documents that are in this house, not for the ministry, one or the other. They're so deep down there anyway, they're even pawned. I do not even hope to appeal for any information from elsewhere, although I believe that we will get the conclusions of such an internal investigation at the Ministry of Defence as soon as possible in relation to what has been promised I do not know when, and the conclusions of the police, of course. That is why I believe that this is the last moment, the last opportunity, if you are to say that it is you to clarify the irregularities in this country, that every doubt, every doubt expressed, produced or justifiably raised, will be turned away from any matter. The fact that certain things are not allowed on regular working bodies when Members have voted on what we cannot put on the agenda is also outrageous and you will not meet in any democratic country in any Parliament. The fact that you are not allowed to attend a meeting where you are discussing such an important matter is now, after the end of the debate, you see that you have discussed everything else, only what was the subject, that is, the title of this point, and that much more material would be needed. No, you voted that you don't need anything because you know everything, but you know how to vote in the end. But the fact that you've changed your own conclusions three times, four times, says the most about it. And don't tell me it's a quick trial now in 24 hours or so, I'm afraid [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If Cos doesn't do it, then what will he do?Oh, my God! [[...]] Of course you did. You will require relief or you will try to resolve it again. But that's how the National Assembly calls some authority for a statement. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u225	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? I can only see one hand. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. I told you before, I'll back this decision up. And I believe that all those of you who are concerned with the truth that some of you have spoken about in this Chamber, Mr Mohe, Mr Juban and others, will support this conclusion. Then everyone will be able to obtain documents, some of which are also published in books, and there is no reaction to these two books. And everyone will be able to look at the expert opinion and find that Dr. Beaten was a forensic expert, a certified forensic expert, and that he was also a forensic expert for the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia when the vehicles were tested. Mr. Prebil has tested both the vehicles of Patrie and the vehicle of Systemic Engineering. And when we pointed out that, we were threatened to use Mr. Pretzel. Who threatened us? Mr. Niittyne threatened us. Sir, who was imprisoned a month later for paying the fees under way. Please, ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if you have used Dr. Beatler and the Faculty of Engineering to test vehicles, you cannot expect the parliamentary commission of inquiry to use experts who are directly related to Patricia alone. What was proposed by Mr Mladenov, by Mr Nittyn and so on. These are the events of the month of April where the Commission was attacked, and these attacks were threatened by those whose 50 million euros of taxpayers' money they would receive. And I figured that out. That you're attacking us, protecting taxpayers' money, which I don't understand. Unless, of course, you're talking about, as it's called, keeping this business at all costs. The fees are high, including for financing [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u227	Thank you. Since I can still see my hands, I'm applying to explain my voice. Please report to anyone who wishes to explain your voice. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakl will hardly convince me to protect the public interest. You ordered system technicians for 30 million euros of equipment, signed a letter of intent of 300 million euros and sold the company for 2 million euros. Six grand worth of order! If this protects the public interest, then you are extremely successful. As far as the evidence you're talking about is concerned. If your commission of inquiry or the commission you led were to do what you should do, then there would be a lot of evidence in this investigation process. The numbers you are talking about, but these numbers simply cannot be proved because the value or value, the level of the System Technology offer, was 20% higher than the one that was selected. And it probably would have happened the other way around. This is said to be a system technique that is essentially more expensive, without those anexes that would then most likely still be followed, as in the previous business. And it seems more and more to me that all these conclusions that you are proposing and all these debates that Mr Cwickl is talking about are actually the rehabilitation of what, in fact, as President of the investigative commission itself, has failed. Well, because of the way he worked and the team he picked up there. This, in turn, pushed all those who worked together into an impossible situation. If he were able to chair an investigative commission, he could find out a number of things, like all the other investigative commissions in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Liberal Democracy to the third decision cannot, of course, be supported when it says that the National Assembly finds that there are indications and on the basis of indications, they would find that the contract is null and void. If the Liberal Democracy were to take this amendment seriously, then at least we should at least assign the following: "Conspirators and Members of the Liberal Democracy Club are committed to allowing, in the event of damage to public funds from the purchase of infantry combat vehicles, 8x8 Patria, in agreement with the notary certified declaration to cover losses in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, to transfer funds from their transaction accounts and to allow mortgage registration into their property book." In that case, I would even trust you to protect your taxpayer's money. However, since you have never been used to transparent action before, because you do not really know what procurement means, this word is obviously foreign to you, let alone an international invitation to tender. You can imagine that some mayor would write a letter to his supplier: "Listen to the next delivery when the euro rises, it must be worth 2% of that supply, because this is a great situation for you." Or say, "Listen, the Slovenian Army has 747 registered trucks in Maribor. It will take so many and so many to rebuild," and to do so, what do you have to do? Yes, probably some kind of public call, what kind of budget to obtain - no, little else has been made sometimes, of course now it is not possible - when the decision of Brigadier Suligo is included or when it is agreed with Rigelnik directly. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u232	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Prime Minister! Of course, I will support the amendment that we have proposed, but also because the debate has shown that it would be good for this story to close; that is also the Prime Minister's wish. And it is this amendment that actually allows the story to end, to close, and that it will no longer be the subject of pre-election reckonings, measurements and other "kind" words that we hear here from colleagues. In particular, this applies to the second part of this Decision, since it also closes the stories that we know are neither the end nor the end. And I will tell it as it was now in this first-September story, if it doesn't open up the opposition, and the coalition opens it itself, so that it can change into wolf skin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u234	Good evening, Members and Members of Parliament, President! Now, I've been comparing these two amendments a little bit to the third conclusion, this by the LDS and the coalition's proponents, and I'm going to say, the difference is obvious. The first one was supposed to be taken on the basis of indictances, which has already been confirmed. I just need to tell you that personally, based on the Indictments, I will not confirm anything, and even less, I will condemn anyone. Well, and an amendment to the coalition, there's a big difference, and this is about the first confirmed suspicion. I would support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy if it were written "after the first confirmed breach of the treaty or proven irregularities" and so on. I must say, this persistent repetition of lies reminds me of something sick. This is no longer normal for me. And maybe there's a really quick way to get to that sharp edge, the gap when you're on one side, which you can soon be on the other side. I brought this rag 8 x 8 today, and I put it on my desk and I remembered a little bit about the visit of our Defence Committee in Systemic Technology, because that's where we got it. And then I thought a little bit about whether it wasn't some kind of corruption or maybe some attempt, a way to bribe the Defence Committee. Or at least impact on the state institution [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That the decision to buy might be different. [[...]] Maybe for a much higher price. I'm glad it didn't work out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u235	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are going to the vote. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. If this amendment is adopted, the two remain irrelevant. So, the First Amendment of the LDS Group. There are 55 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 40. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. This is the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the third decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I can only see one hand. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u236	Thank you. We will not support this amendment in the SDS, as the key points of today's meeting are avoided far away, this is the responsibility for the accusations made at home and, in particular, abroad. This is governed by our amendment, which is next, which of course we will support. I mean, it's funny. See, after writing to the media just the two people who were at the head of the "red jihad" against the government of Janez Janša and the coalition are, in fact, through relatives, brothers, sisters, acquaintances and so forth, sports directly related to one of these companies mentioned in this process, which in the broader European sense of the word is considered a corrupt act and can ultimately prove to be the only two people who have committed corruption under European standards in all of these stories. However, it also has a tragic part, because in doing so, Slovenia was dirty abroad and those who, at the time of the release of Janez Janša in 1994, at the time of the affair of Vič-Holmec, while deleted, along with the Roma, with so-called censorship, instigated corruption, have mutilated our country abroad and you may not care about values, although I am convinced that this is essential; you must be aware that the continued defamation of the country abroad also has material consequences, as it reduces the credibility of this country and capital for such a country becomes expensive or even avoids it. Therefore, those who do so also deliberately reduce the possibility of faster development of our country of Slovenia. These rights, ladies and gentlemen, there is no one.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u237	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to the vote. We're voting. The vote on the second amendment to the third decision is under way. If this is accepted, the third is irrelevant. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 40. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to the third decision proposed by the SDS, NSI and DeSUS Members. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Does anyone want to do it on their own? I see two hands. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u238	I will not support this amendment simply because it was announced yesterday at the Odessa; on so-called public television it has been announced what the National Assembly will decide today and who it will invite to explain its statements. It's an abuse of the public media. And 24 hours later, we got an amendment, where in the second part something is said. I'm sorry you didn't support the amendment under number one. However, the statements made here by Mr President of the Anti-Corruption Commission can be seen in the general opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission of 29 May 2008. And that's nothing new. But everything else is, of course, a media construct that started last night at the Odessa. And, of course, if it is in Slovenia that the ministers of the government, and the televisions, and the police reports about some people speak, then it is logical that such a decision of the National Assembly is, of course, to follow. But sometimes it would be good to have a proposal for a decision of the National Assembly first, and then work on this media spectacle. Of course, I will not support this amendment alone. Otherwise, I agree with the first part of this amendment - the first confirmed suspicion of corruption. I believe this contract will be terminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u240	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The amendment you have proposed in the coalition will not be supported, because it is drawn up again in such a way that it does not actually make a normal decision. The first part is, of course, general, clear and in some sense pointless to reject, but then another mine is planted in another part, of course, which completely degrades the National Assembly as an institution. Not so much with the announcement on TV, we are used to these predictions, and this meeting was announced already in Odessa on 2 September, even though the demand was, of course, realized a little later. I mean, you can't work that fast. But the truth is, such practices that have been introduced in this mandate are said to be of some normal nature, which would have caused more nonsense, and in this case, of course, even the indecency that the National Assembly would have carried out. In such a case, of course, I cannot vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u241	Thank you. Anyone else? I see two hands. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! I do not think it is necessary to explain for a long time if we have signed this amendment to the third decision, of course we will also vote, Members of the New Slovenia. But for the finals of today and tonight, let me say that the Patria affair is a construction designed to discredit this government and this entire coalition. So she was completely and completely unhappy. In Novi Slovenija we also expect that this is the last attempt to mutilate its own country, constructed at home and launched from the outside. Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, is too valuable to be protected with all its means. We will also do this in New Slovenia in the future with all our heart and with all our love for Slovenia, which is our hard-won country. And the approval of the proposed amendment is the least we can do. To all future investigative commissions, the lesson is that for God's sake they should not work according to the principle of "l'Etat c'est moi" or Slovenian: "the commission is me, Quekel" because there will be a self-blocking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u244	You ruined this with this amendment; you could vote in favour of the third decision. Because if you read it, and if you're serious about it, then we're in the Inquisition. Mr. Tanko had already said that if he didn't do it within 24 hours - what did he say, after all? You really don't think I'm gonna talk about names! These are the people who were from the top - because that is the essence of the problem! Which top did he mean? On Trig?Oh, my God! I don't know who! And now you're calling him. What if today a million debates were here, which were offensive, which were misleading, not to say how. In order for each statement to be made, each such thing has to be decided that someone has to explain what he meant, who he meant and so on. Then they'll really get at him. The man's obviously in trouble because he's threatened. That's what it says. I don't know who. But if he doesn't want to say it, he probably has reasons. I have no problem predicting how to proceed. Mr. Tanko has predicted here, the machine is grinding, grinding, and he's going to beat that poor piece again, and he's already going to. And of course, so just read what you wrote. People have to explain to you what they think, who they're afraid of. It doesn't say who he was thinking of anywhere. Who's that top? Explain who this summit is. Why should someone explain what he was thinking, what he was talking to, and so on? Who, then, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Who does he have to explain?Oh, my God! [[...]] Even those who are obliged by law and the Constitution of the National Assembly do not explain!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u245	Thank you. Someone else in their own name. Two hands again. Please, I'll open the application and everyone who wants to explain your voice will sign up. Please. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u246	Thank you. I will support this proposal. Why? Look, there are gentlemen on this show: Squeakle, Mr Kos, Mr Potočnik, Mr Milan Schweiger. It's all Systemic Technology, Viator&Vector, the commission that investigated it. Mr Cwickl says: "It is clear that in the end, Patricia was at least €50 million better, because we got less than we were originally offered. We therefore find this unacceptable because the difference will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers." And the journalist concludes from these words: "When bribes are used in transactions, then the product must be sold at the most expensive price. It's the only way to get the bribe money back." There is no time for other statements to be read, which are in this context, but it is quite clear that these gentlemen who are already known from previous affairs - Mr Kos, we have heard, from the affair of Vič-Holmec and all others - pointed the matter in the right direction. And when it comes to the question of putting evidence on the table, some of you are disgusted. Someone's saying they threatened him. Mr Kos says he was threatened by people from the top of Slovenian politics. Tell him who threatened him! Mr Kos is not anyone, he is presented abroad as the only institution fighting corruption. And it's perfectly normal to say if there were such threats and to show how they were and put them on the table. Otherwise, it is better for this country to give up before being appointed, to have much less problems with corruption, under such principle as it produces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. We have indeed heard here many obvious deceptions and also the instigation that we are misleading. But the fact remains that before deciding on this amendment and the decision, which unfortunately will not save the substance, the fact remains that I did not receive an answer to the question of who in this Chamber, namely Minister Erjavec, or in Finland did not speak the truth, as there was direct contradiction. The minister said that Patria wanted to have an intermediary, Director Patrie explicitly said it was MOR's wish. And why do I raise that question? Because it is not now about what was said there in the broadcast, it is that we obviously had an intermediary who made sure that the price of our patriots was half a million euros for patriots higher than, say, Croatia. I don't want such an intermediary, I want an intermediary who will lower the price for me, in this way he deserves the commission to make our patriots half a million more expensive. And, see, 135 patriots times half a million, that's not the 50 million euros we talked about, that's 70 million euros, 35 euros per head. The next question remained open again and was a ping-pong between the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister, whether he knew or didn't know, because the Prime Minister, for the contract, whether he saw it before the signing or not. It turns out there's something going on at the Ministry of Defense that the minister doesn't know. And all of this, of course - I'm running out of time - as it appears from the outset that this decision will not save anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u250	Thank you, President. Neither will I support the amendment or the conclusions, because I do not wish to legitimize with my vote some clear pre-election political agitation of the coalition, an open mobilization of all your forces and an attempt to attribute this meeting to our party, the opposition. We didn't call her, we didn't ask her, we came because we were obliged to come. And to be credited to my colleague, Brickle, by the commission of inquiry he ran. You have led this committee and made it impossible for her to do her job. I think it was so clear today what the purpose of this session was, that probably - I too believe in the minds of our electorates and voters - those who have watched us have fully understood. And above all, I will not vote because today you will "burn" to the end the legitimacy of EUR 278 million, which will go to the wrong, uneconomic business. Whether they're commissions or not, it doesn't matter. It's a huge sum of money for the project. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] who is not wise, who will stand a great deal; for you all know that the equipment of the extra armor will also cost something. [[...]] I'm not here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u251	Thank you. We vote on the third amendment. The vote runs on the third amendment to the third decision. There are 55 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 12. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for decisions. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I only saw one hand. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u252	I gave up asking my own questions a long time ago and because I was sure - and so in the group - that you would allow the investigative commission to do its job to the end. Because I believed that the law enforcement agencies and all those who had to do their work when there was a suspicion and that the truth would come on the day. But if you have already convened this extraordinary session, then I will repeat it again, which I repeat all the time, that it is that the intermediary in this business was unnecessary, that the minister himself ensured that he will not be before the election, that then this mediator came to the request of the MORS, as I read in the media and the statements of the representatives of Finland Patria, and that it will be more expensive. And because it'll be more expensive because these intermediaries have to make money. I don't believe that a painter, a car driver, or I don't know who has been involved in this business right now, because since 1991, I believe that they have been working with a gentleman who is director of Rotis at the time, but with someone else. I don't believe it, but I'm reading there that some money was going up in Austria, that we were going somewhere; but I'm saying, the opportunity was to explain today, you called the meeting. I think I'm one of the few people who talked about the title of this point all the time. Secondly, we will get EUR 278 million for 25 shells, unequipped, and do not explain. That is why I am always talking and asking what will be the final price of the armored armor. You had 63 billion available, you even said in an interview for Saturday's annex or Saturday's work that you were running out of 19.5 million euros and that you had therefore informed the Prime Minister that he would be informed. I already quoted it to you today. You've got work to do, deny it in the paper, where it was written. And because, of course, you do not explain the final price of 25 armoured men, such as you ordered, are useless to the Slovenian Army without the addition of weapons and what is still needed. And this will cost Slovenian taxpayers once. And when I ask you a clear question, tell me, you will begin about which party you were all in, in the SLS, in the LDS, you were Secretary of State in the previous term, where Mr Marolt is now. You're talking about how everything sucked in justice, how stupid the laws were, what we did. I did not participate in any decision on the purchase of military equipment as a parliamentarian, and in no political party body, ours, we did not discuss any purchases in the previous term. If you contributed a tolar to being a customer at that time [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u253	However, I would warn you, although we are already tired that the explanation of vote is no longer intended for new perceptions, questions and controversy, because the Minister is no longer in a position to answer. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening applications and I'm asking you to sign up for everyone who wants to explain your voice in your own name. Mr. Gulic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u254	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ministers and Prime Minister of the Government! I'm not going to support any of this. The reasons for the first are, in fact, clear, the matter will remain open. In fact, the least of the discussions were in this regard today. The second decision, which is linked to the functioning of the Slovenian police and the state prosecutor's office, is irrelevant. These two institutions have to work one way or another. However, I cannot support in some way the insidious thought that they have worked intensively so far. They may have been working after May 22th intensely, but they had done nothing before, although there were already enough clear indications in the National Assembly that something was wrong, particularly with regard to commissions. The third conclusion is the total degradation of the National Assembly, which I have talked about before. Of course, we are going to be Members of the National Assembly to stage a manhunt, and that is certainly not the case. The first sentence of the Latin exercise by Ivan Sivc "Patria nostra ulchara est." I hope it doesn't turn into "horibalia est." One more thing, to all of you who have been so happy today defending yourself and getting out of these problems, I see that you have read my inscription on your shirt and that you have taken it into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u256	I must say, given this meeting today, I will support all three proposed conclusions. Although to some extent I agree that the first and second decisions would not even be necessary, because the first one is logical that this decision was good. Well, if we confirm that again tonight, it's nothing to do, but maybe it'll be good for who, because obviously, a lot of people don't know the difference between "smaller" and "greater". For the second decision, which speaks of the work of the prosecution and the Slovenian police, I also think that both bodies would do well, properly, without this decision. Maybe this third decision is really the most important, which is the right thing to do. But I was struck by Mr Anderlich's statement when he said that you had already convened a meeting. So ironic, "if you've already convened a session"! We didn't call her because today was such a beautiful day and it was lovely here in the air-conditioned hall to sit down, but we called her because something happened. Because certain things have gone abroad because certain lies have gone abroad and these lies have to be demented. Not if you've called a meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u258	Yes, precisely because, if you are already - the title of the point is: Proposal for Decisions concerning the consideration of the decision to equip the Slovenian Army with infantry combat vehicles 8x8 to deal with the implementation of the international public tender and to address the evidence of alleged corruption in this exercise. Well, that's what you wanted. I got involved differently. I wouldn't discuss this supply anymore, and I didn't want to, but you wanted it. I have previously quoted this statement in Del, and the President of the Government had earlier this same text in his hands, where he says: 'It is true that after the conclusion of the negotiations and before the signing of the treaty I requested a meeting with Janša, because I wanted to inform him of what we will get for 278 million. This seemed large enough for the Prime Minister to be aware of the content of the contract before it was signed. In total, we exceeded the sum we had at our disposal for 19.5 million euros." The end, no dementia, and so on. You have exceeded the sum - today you did not explain the denials in the newspaper. And that my concerns are justified, the documents also prove that when Mr Gutman prepared a document last July, we also read it in the National Assembly, where what you predicted to receive with this invitation was not worth 63 billion, but 93 billion. And because of this, of course, the money was not available, you reduced it and therefore bought the unfurnished. This difference will have to be paid once by Slovenian taxpayers if we want to have armored armor. That's all. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Explain this and you don't have to push the other one. [[...]] I won't support the conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u260	Thank you. First thing to point out again, colleagues and colleagues. The first to propose the convening of this meeting were colleagues from the LDS, followed by them indeed, and as it happened, the matter was clear. Second. A few of you have now re-started with a statement we've heard yesterday and even today, in these decisions on weapons, on the purchase of weapons, on the purchase of 8x8 you weren't there. Opsa! Who promised 2% of GDP spending on weapons? First, proven, if you wish, these evidences have already been submitted here, I can show them again, Mr Tone Rob was abroad. Tone Rop is in the SD Group today. A resolution was then adopted on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is a direct basis for the current purchase of arms systems. For them they voted, you will not believe, among other things: Mr Anderlič Anton, Mr Ptrč Miran and also Mrs Zalokar Orazem Flower, so that you would not do injustice to either the SD or the LDS and of course not to Zares. Three people who had very, very much to say today in this regard. And more! In the previous term, the Prime Minister has already signed a letter on the intention to purchase 8x8 with Systemic technique and the only sin that this government has committed is that it has gone into transparent procurement with a call for proposals. This is said to have adopted European standards. European values, ladies and gentlemen. Does anyone then doubt that this is really the whole story and that this story is primarily about values?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u261	Thank you. Any other explanations in your own name? I can see two hands, please for the last two hands. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u262	I will not support the proposals of the decision alone, especially because I do not know how the National Assembly can express its support for the prosecution and the Slovenian police to continue the intensive investigation of corruption suspicions. Unless, of course, you consider that the so-called conversation with the four who gave an opinion on Finnish state television, which was six months old, and then a conversation was held with us - intensive investigations into the suspicion of corruption. However, since I am speaking, it would be good for the Slovenian police to check that special wiretaps were used against me, either by listening to my phone or by looking at my e-mail. So, gentlemen, if you really believe that the state prosecutor's office and the Slovenian police are intensively investigating the suspicion of corruption in the procurement of eight-wheelers and are successfully completed, then today we would have different reports from the prosecutor's office and the Slovenian police. Thus we had a particular explanation why from February 2007 until the arrest in Finland was not taking place in Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] there is absolutely nothing in this field to investigate suspected corruption in the procurement of eight-seaters. [[...]] It's not a big deal, gentlemen, in an investigation into the arrests in Finland. And imagine if there were no arrests in Finland. When would we start investigating the suspicion of corruption in Slovenia? Never in the world?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. I think today's story is either over or it's over, like the real conversation of "whoever else caves the spear falls." It is likely that someone would have fallen into the pit if the question of signing a letter of intent, signed by someone - the former government, had opened up before. You know, the signature of the letter of intent, there must be a lot of us here, who know or know the former law of public procurement, and also that law has not given anyone the authority to sign a letter of intent for a certain business. Because we know what a letter of intent means, especially in Western countries, to sign between companies, that it is almost a contract, but not, what does it mean if you share tax money with a letter of intent! And from this point of view, I am firmly convinced or will always stand in the position that the invitation to tender was transparent. And I am very pleased that New Slovenia has clean hands and that I am also sure, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that without evidence there is something to claim the greatest absurdity that can happen. [[...]] Nevertheless, I will also support the proposed proposals for conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-09-09-SDZ4-Izredna-41.ana.u265	Thank you. I therefore vote on the decisions in full. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 11. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 11.]] I find that the conclusions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and I hope it is the last. I thank all Members and Members for their participation, and I wish them a good night, even though it will be a short one!
