ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Ivan Yelen and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving on to 30. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S FOR DEFINITIVE INTERVIEW OF THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE INTERNAL MATTER OF DRUGETINE MATHEY. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Dr. Paul Gantar. I give the floor to the representatives of the proposers to explain the interpretation. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Interpellation of the work and responsibility of each minister or even of the Government is an important instrument for parliamentary control over the work of the executive branch. Especially when we assess that there are persistent and systematic violations of the law which govern these areas by the executive or by various irregularities, the failure to fulfil the tasks which result in a general deterioration of the situation in the case that we are dealing with today, of course the situation in the field of public order and public security. Interpellation on the work of a specific minister, in our case Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Mate, should be primarily an opportunity and an opportunity to discuss and discuss problems in this area, not so much about people who take concrete responsibility for policy management. The substantive debate on the dilemmas and problems that our executive authorities are dealing with in the management of this policy should be a priority, although, clearly, we will never be able to avoid specific people in the debate when specific policies and governance are personalised through a particular person or his fellow workers. May I, my fellow Members and colleagues, in principle and at the outset state a purely basic and basic statement, which stands in the background or, if you wish, at the heart of our discontent with the public security policy which is run by and is under the responsibility of the Minister. I don't say this epiphany in this council for the first time, and I have to repeat it today. In view of the fact that the Minister, with a number of changes in the legislative field, has re-politicised the police by means of legislation, law and other regulations, as a body in its composition, which is supposed to be primarily linked to the Constitution, laws and other regulations, has directly divided the policy within the meaning of even one political option. The previous ministers are at least verbally under the impression of what political abuses of the police can lead to if they have advocated a certain distance and autonomy of police work in relation to every political interest, and the current executive authority has reversed this optics and is once again subordinated to political objectives. For example, we can understand the changes to the police law proposed by the Minister, where, under the rationalisation company, the police director actually loses much of his independence in managing resources: management of human resources, material resources, technical resources and financial operations. Which, in fact, means submission to the police. In this respect, it must be made very clear that we signatories to interpretation are on the other side of understanding public order and security and policy management. And it's right that we all know that. To admit it and finally to the general public. Our vision of public and state administration, in particular of such a sensitive segment as public security and crime prevention and detection, is different. We believe in limiting and self-limiting policies. We believe in the distance between a concrete ruling political option and the joint tasks to be performed by the public administration. We believe in the professionalism and autonomy of the police. In particular, we are opposed to the operational interference of political officials with concrete police work. We believe that state institutions are not the property of political parties, that a democratically elected government has the task of performing and not having public goods, which is undoubtedly public security. And now my colleagues and colleagues for the interpretation itself. Interpellation on the work and responsibility of Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Mate, was filed for six violations, namely violations of the law on private protection, violations of the law on the register of electoral law, objective liability and violations of the law on criminal procedure, criminal code and the regulation on the participation of the state prosecutor and the police in the detection and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences. Also due to objective liability and infringements of Articles 32, 35, 36, 37 and 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And fifthly, due to a violation of the law in the police force and a regulation on the direction and control of the police, and finally six times, for violating and non-implementing the basic provisions of the resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and violating the strategic objectives of the medium-term development and police work plan in 2003-2007. In our opinion, these violations have resulted in irreparable or difficult remedial consequences, which appear to be alarmingly poor over the exercise of control over private security companies, resulting in unprofessional, illegal and sometimes also for the lives of others, particularly the dangerous conduct of private security activities, in non-temporary and incompatible updates and the way in which a register of the electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in Slovenia is established, focused on the collection of data on non-criminal individuals, which constitutes a violation of human rights, police politicisation and their human rights, the erosion of the security system and the deterioration of the effectiveness of police work and the deterioration of road safety, the poorer investigation of dangerous criminal offences and so forth. We have shared some of the work of the interpellations in the presentation. In particular, I will present points 1, 4 and 5 and the rest will be presented by colleagues from LDS. Under the first point of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, we find a violation of the law on private protection, which has resulted in an indirect tragic death of minors from the Global and Lip discotheque due to lack of functioning or poor coordination, non-action and lack of control over private security companies. Minister Dragutin Mate is objectively responsible for violating the law on private protection, as he has not issued a regulation for the manner in which the private security inspection is carried out in three years, which means that he does not respect the obligation imposed on him by the Law on Private Protection in Article 81, which means that he does not exercise his own, by law specified, powers in the field of private protection. In order to mislead the public that the old Private Protection Act and the provisions of the inspection supervision do not allow the temporary withdrawal of the licence to VIP Protection; to waive due diligence, since the Ministry of Interior or Inspection has not used all the possibilities of immediate and effective action to ensure public interest and to protect the lives and health of people in the case of VIP Protection. Of course, we also give him unfounded and misleading accusations against the Chamber of Private Protection, against the Council of State and Members of the National Assembly, this National Assembly, which he blamed for the tragedy against Global as a result of his opposition and rejection of the novel Law on Private Protection, in order to conceal his responsibility, thereby showing that he is not aware of objective responsibility and that he has crossed the limit of the permissible. Otherwise, we also acknowledge the chaotic situation in the area of private protection and not even the implementation of the conclusions and promises made to him by President Janez Janša himself. President of the government, of course. Of course, the problem of public security and public order is a very sensitive problem. Of course, it is clear to everyone that, with such a conscious implementation of measures, accidents and incidents that are actually the result of accidents can happen, and that this is simply never directly attributed, say, to a politically responsible person, to an individual, to a minister. Of course, it is clear that society is made up of different segments and often happens randomly, unpredictablely, unforeseeablely, and it is not possible to establish such control and such control in order to always prevent it in advance. We know that and we don't read it to the minister. It is obvious, however, that after something has happened, he has not done the things that he should have done and that would objectively reduce the possibility of accidental incidents and that would reduce the possibility of such things occurring, although of course we ourselves know that we can never avoid it. We all know the tragic events in front of the Lip discotheque on 23.12.2005, which claimed the life of three girls. Emergency surveillance at a discotheque security company has shown a number of shortcomings that have been confused in the mosaic of circumstances that have caused the tragedy. The security service had only a property protection licence and not a licence to protect the public collection of employees and so on. However, the written contract between the company and the legal representative of the place also contained a provision on the protection of employees and visitors. Despite these tragic events, which indicated that there was something wrong with the protection of public gatherings, the incident in Celje and so on, the ministry responsible for regulation and the supervisory inspection body did not actually collapse until there was a new tragedy, this time before the Global in Ljubljana, which also triggered a wider social movement and resentment. The tragic event is known, and I will not repeat it. The fact is, a minor who was beaten by two security guards of private security companies - VIP so badly - died of injuries at the Clinical Center. At least to me, perhaps not to you, it is totally unacceptable that one of the two security guards remained at large for at least two days and then fled the country and is today unattainable to the Slovenian judicial system. I don't have an answer for why. After everything that's happened. Maybe in the first moment, it didn't even know what it was, that death didn't even happen, and so on. After knowing why, we do not understand how the police did not respond or that they failed and did not prevent him from leaving the country. Then, when questions were raised as to how this could be done and what control of these services was exercised, it came to the day that the inspection of these services, in which more than 6,000 people were employed, were carried out by three inspectors. That the Minister has not issued a regulation on the manner in which private security inspections are carried out, which means that the obligation set out in Article 81 of the Private Protection Act is not respected, that the Chamber of Private Protection has already addressed to the Directorate General of Police the initiative to inspect and suspend the licence and that the reply I read was formalistically bureaucratic, since there are no two legal decisions and therefore the reasons for the withdrawal of the licence. However, it is quite clear that in view of the infringements that have taken place in order for the Ministry to act, it has carried out inspections and temporary withdrawals of licences, even if they had complied with the Inspection Act and the Administrative Procedure Act. The Minister of State refers, of course, to the fact that he could not withdraw his licence due to two legislative decisions, but at the same time he did not have a regulation on inspection. And he says he doesn't need a rule because he's got a new inspection bill. So why didn't he apply the new inspection law, why didn't he apply the Administrative Procedure Act? However, the crown was the statement by Mr Minister and Mr Srečko Jarc that the Ministry could not act because the amendment of the Law on Private Protection had not been adopted and thus was explicitly responsible for the failure of the Ministry to act before and after the tragic event was passed on to the Council of State and the National Assembly. It is, of course, paradoxical that even the provision on the possibility of temporary withdrawal of a licence was deleted in the refused law. Indeed, the Minister would not have been able to act if this law had been passed. We cannot avoid the impression that the Ministry, I will use this term, the mild treatment of this society, has somehow protected the call for action by the chamber and the public and the reasons for non-action has tried to transfer it to others. In this regard, it should also be said that the Ministry has established that in January 2007, I think that this company does not have a licence to protect public gatherings. And that's enough reason to get a license under the law in general, even for physical protection. But no, this company got a license very quickly, in February 2007, also for this collection. So instead of punishing her, she was actually helped to get rid of the crime. In a relatively short period of time, from 2005 to October 2007, we had five deaths related to the issue of security in the field of public gatherings. Each of them was specific, different, but some of the circumstances are common: public space, mass event, youthful audience. The Ministry simply ignored these things. Once again, it is never possible to avoid some accidents that can lead to tragic events, if we are still so careful. But in this case, they were not so careful. In this case, unfortunately, it has been shown that some activities have been abandoned, some measures that could and probably help to avoid such a tragic balance. I will move on to the 4th point, where we report to the Minister that he is responsible for the violation of point 2.a of the Police Act, when he passed the chain of command in May 2005, the Director-General of Police, the Director-General of the Crime Service, ordered that the criminalist, employed in the criminal police department of the General Police Administration, be informed of the prosecution of the suspected crime. In May 2005, Mr Dragutin Mather, Minister of the Interior, exceeded his powers in our opinion and, contrary to the third paragraph of Article 2a of the Police Act, by ordering that a member of the criminal police administration of the General Police Administration presented to RTV Slovenije the facts of the criminal indictment in the case of the suspected crime of genocide, and thus unlawfully intervened in a specific prognosis procedure, which was directed by the competent state prosecutor on the basis of the Procedural Procedure Act and the Public Prosecutor's Act. For the record, I even wrote about it in Youth. The fact that a criminal charge has been lodged for the suspicion of a crime of genocide against a particular person is information that the public has the right to know and has the right to be informed. There is no doubt about it, and there can be no doubt about it, in my opinion, if we have to hide it or publish it in an inappropriate way. That's what I'm pretty sure about. However, the fact is that, according to the law, this case has already been handed over to the State Prosecutor's Office and since then only the State Prosecutor's Office can direct things and, of course, also inform the public. And of course that was broken. The fact is also that the decision on the publication and the extent of the transmission of data to the public was not previously coordinated with the State Prosecutor's Office, since it was not available at the time, because criminalist Jamnik had to do so by special order of the Minister, so the dissatisfied and then dismissed people from the police report it immediately, as the press team was already waiting in the lobby of the Ministry of the Interior. At the same time, it was evident that this news was not transmitted in the usual way, that it should be transmitted by the state authorities, whether it is the Ministry of State or some other ministry or even the State Prosecutor's Office - that is, at a press conference, as reported by the UN when it discovers something important, or in a press release that the prosecution could do. This news has been communicated through both the authorised journalist and exclusive information, thus closing access to this information if properly transmitted, including to all other media outlets, journalists and so on. Political connotations are clear here and have gone to the detriment of the forecasting process, which has also been shown later. The result of the Minister's violation of the police law was also the fact that two senior police officers had to leave because they did not directly agree with the Minister's intervention, and they also warned him, both Mr Potočnik, who was the director of the police, as did Mr Erhatič, Assistant Director of the Criminal Police. That the Minister had acted wrong, he also implicitly admitted that he had proposed the addition of article 22 of the Police Act, where he had also allowed the Minister to give instructions in this sense and thus had to cover his irregular and illegal conduct back. In point 5, the Minister of the Interior is seeing the erosion of the security system, the deterioration of the effectiveness of police work, the deterioration of the conditions for investigating dangerous crimes and the conditions that led to the deterioration of road safety. In the fight against corruption, it must be found that there has been an apparent deterioration in the organisational climate, working conditions, which also affects a number of arrests by police officers in recent years, and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] security system in the country. [[...]] A number of staff exchanges and willfulness reduces motivation and a sense of stability, which has a negative impact on work and effort. In the fight against corruption, we can see that although corruption was high on the side of this government, namely, the fight against corruption, in fact, nothing special or even very small has happened in this area. The government and its ministers are clamoring against corruption. Especially after the new one against the tycoons. In reality, however, very little has happened in this area. As early as 2006, he was employed at the national level in a police unit specialising in the fight against corruption by one person. In all other police administrations, about 20 people were involved in corruption crimes in addition to other cases. The fight against corruption is not only against the Minister or, above all, against Minister Matei, the fight against corruption was more against the anti-corruption commission than against corruption itself. In the area of road safety, we are facing a drastic deterioration in traffic safety in 2007. Far from thinking it's just the police's responsibility. Far from saying anything can be attributed to the police or only to the minister. So the fact is that fines have been reduced for some of the offences committed by truck drivers, which has an impact on the fact that the owners are pushing the drivers, that they are more often violating the law and, of course, contribute to less safety. Above all, it is incomprehensible that the Minister has abolished the Council for Prevention and Raising in Road Traffic of the Republic of Slovenia, transferred his tasks to the Agency for Road Traffic Safety and to the Ministry of Transport. And we don't understand, the world had some tradition, some reputation, some action, some activity that wasn't bad, could be better, we could never praise anything until the end, but it certainly had some tradition, some network and so on. And all of this was somehow eliminated. To whom, in fact, was the Council on its way? Why this love of destruction of everything, as far as it works and which does not correspond to the views of a specific policy. I don't understand, personally, I don't understand the logic or motive for transferring road safety powers to the transport ministry, unless they wanted to get rid of a respected police traffic safety expert. I know so much about the Ministry of Transport that I know that the Ministry of Transport deals with traffic safety, but with passive security. They operate with technical parameters of road construction, dealing with standards, regulations, procedures that could enable safer and safer running traffic in the construction of road constructions of all dimensions. The Ministry of Transport has no experience and no behaviour and is also not geared in this direction to address the problems of ensuring active safety, with road traffic control, which is actually one of the main points today. As I drove to the National Assembly today, I listened on the radio to the views of the people who proposed and criticised the current state of active transport security. This matter, active traffic security, has passed on to the Ministry of Transport, which is overloaded with all other things more than enough, of course means abandoning it. I could count a lot more. There's a lot more to be said today. In view of all this, the signatories under Article 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 253 proposed that, following the conclusion of the debate on interpretation, we should decide that Mr Mate should be dismissed as Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Another candidate has the floor, Mr Jožef Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u4	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! We also support all the interpretation charges made by colleagues in Zares at the Liberal Democracy Club. We believe, however, that even worse matters remain, worthy of serious consideration by the National Assembly, which concerns the work of the Minister and the Ministry and would require a thorough assessment of the village sitting in this Chamber. See, on 23 January, one of the political groups in the European Parliament said that the Committee on Civil Rights, Justice and Home Affairs had been attended by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to discuss the priorities of the Presidency in this area. He writes: "In addition to confirming the search for consensus on the Return Directive, although he was unable to express the world's views on the duration of the deprivation of liberty, the Minister of the Interior denied the existence of a problem which concerns deleted from Slovenia and stressed that the problem would be resolved by the adoption of constitutional law." Why am I reading this? Because the vice-president of this committee, Mr Catania, responded to this Minister's statement: "We are disappointed." We hoped that this would be a priority for the Slovenian Presidency, which is now not only an internal issue, but also a European issue, because these citizens have also been deprived of their rights and European citizenship. In this semester, our priority will be deleted."What we have told and before which everyone escapes in this House comes to the stage of the Slovenian Presidency and to the stage of the Presidency. Of course, the Minister will be able to give justifiably and also to Slovenia, with some of the achievements of the Presidency. One such achievement is to ensure security at the external borders of Slovenia, according to the establishment of this Schengen system. However, this raises the question whether it is possible that the majority of the Minister's energy has focused on this issue has deteriorated internal security in Slovenia. Is it not possible that because the Minister has taken appropriate compensatory measures, it has increased the possibility that the police part of the police is in fact using even worse or even more strongly different methods throughout the territory of Slovenia, when it is necessary to provide and establish a band for where police officers can use certain procedures that are brought about by the removal of internal borders within the Union? Is it not possible that the lack of people has changed the law on the police and reduced standards for education? Which means the cops aren't a part of a lot of jobs. The abolition of education in this school means that they become police officers without adequate quality skills and are, I will say, subject to situations that are not a match for them. Part of this we have seen our time in Greeks and a similar situation that shows that young police officers are not qualified enough, even in the case of Grosuply. But let's go back to those things that we're reading in interpeel that the minister isn't good enough to answer, at least in my opinion. If we go to the electoral justice records. This is the case, which was particularly topical in the election of the President, but it can be even more current in the elections. We continue to report a violation of the law on registering electoral rights to Minister Mate because the Ministry has neither created electoral records of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. This led to a violation of the constitutional right to vote, since in some cases the exercise of electoral rights was also possible for persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for those who are deceased and so on. In this regard, the Minister is responsible for, as it is called, bureaucratic negligence in the composition of the electoral directory or for an incomplete and defective electoral directory. He is responsible for overstepping the law of the specified deadline for the establishment of this directory and is responsible for establishing doubts about the legitimacy of the elections. In these elections, the parties were not particularly concerned in the end, and there was a lot going on with this directory. As part of the rules was changed in the National Assembly and the elections in one part, and the elections are also being conducted by means of a directory prepared by this Ministry, it has been shown that we have had a real confusion around the number of electoral beneficiaries in this special directory. If we had registered good 12,000 electoral beneficiaries and beneficiaries before the change in this novel in Slovenia, after this amendment of the law, when it was necessary to place everyone who does not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and are our citizens, we have reached the number of good 70,000 electoral beneficiaries and beneficiaries. Here we have a very precise definition of how to draw up an electoral directory of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It has the following components: serial number, surname and name, sex, date of birth, last permanent residence of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or one of his parents in the Republic of Slovenia and permanent residence abroad. The lists with which we dealt did not follow these provisions to a large extent. It is indeed necessary to say here that the Minister also points to some confusion that has arisen. But he and his work are largely responsible for this mess. If we are looking at the last elections, at the end of the electoral lists with the status on 10.10. for the first round of the election of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, 73,521 Slovenian citizens were entered in the special electoral directory. Of this, 51,029 citizens had a regulated address to the level of the country and 22,492 citizens did not have the data at their disposal, but they were registered in the electoral directory. If there's something really wrong here, we might as well say otherwise. In the electoral directory for the second round 1,720,481 voters and voters were registered in the Republic of Slovenia. If there were 30.5% of this incomplete data, without permanent residence, as in the electoral directory abroad, this would represent 524,700 voters. Every comment here is superfluous. If it's not possible to talk about gross negligence here, then I don't know what that term means. Of course, it is not possible to exercise the right to vote without having all the data. This is also why all these Ministry procedures are problematic. What it is to be alert to increase the number of voters and voters, but at the same time we do not have any information if everyone is still alive, nor do we have an address where to send it. This, of course, can lead to possible abuses. If electoral material goes to wrong addresses, there is a possibility of abuse if electoral material goes to people who are no longer alive, there is a possibility of abuse if electoral material goes to people who are not citizens, which was also the case, there is a possibility of electoral abuse. To conclude, I could have talked about it for a very long time. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that elections are the foundation of democracy and that, of course, it is essential that they be conducted in accordance with the law. There have been many mistakes in the election of the President of the Republic, so we cannot be concerned, despite the fact that these ballots from abroad have not decided on the election outcome. However, mistakes do not change anything, but they do interfere with the essence of elections. For this reason, the violation of the law and the mistakes of the minister cannot be taken with such greed as are dealt with by the Minister and the ruling coalition and the Chief Minister. We believe that the Minister for Law Enforcement and Errors, even though he is solely and objectively responsible for them, must assume responsibility and be resolved. If we move on to the 3rd point, where we assess how the Minister acted in a case known by Slovenia as Plut. The big question is why the police did what they did or did not do, even though it was clear that they were dealing with a dangerous person, that the media were full of questions about the crimes and the responsibility for the crimes committed by that person in the Republic of Serbia. What is horrifying about all the statements made by the minister around this case is that we can conclude that the Pluto for the crime he committed in Serbia would never have actually been punished. And it is unacceptable that someone can imagine that a Slovenian citizen is killing unpunished in foreign countries and that the Slovenian police have their hands tied in such a case. The excuses we've been listening to here, when there were no proper documents, indicate a great lack of cooperation between the police and the prosecution. In the case of Plut, in spite of the legal basis in force for prosecution, as well as established instruments for international cooperation in the field of prosecution, there has been inadequate or even a lack of action by the police, as well as a lack of response by the State Prosecutor's Office. The consequences are clear. But why am I telling this? Because very quickly all Slovenia faced completely different procedures in the case of the Strojan family. All the powers that the police, according to the minister's words, could not be used in the case of Plut, the police used without any difficulty in the case of the Strojan family. If the police, to simplify, did the same as in the case of the Strojan family in the case of Plut, there would be no tragic consequences on Janča. When the minister explained on what grounds these families were following, and unfortunately also others who were dealing with the problem, it turned out that when the police had great powers to accompany, at the will of the minister, the "problem person" in the ignorant. Of course, this whole politicisation, which was discussed by my colleague Gantar, has somehow led us to talk about a major erosion of the security system. And this is the term that actually tells what really happened in this mandate, what the consequences of this successful ministry have been, what are the consequences of all the changes that the Government has achieved so far in terms of the visa status of the police, both the visas of the police officers and also the amendments to the Law on Public Servants, where certain autonomous parts of the state administration and state authorities have been subordinated and, in fact, disposed of with the necessary autonomy. All these amendments to the laws, in particular the two, have certainly enabled the politicisation of the public administration, enabled a number of staff replacements and allowed the Minister to be legally involved in the work of the police. But the consequences are very severe. Since the government has submitted the most important parts of the police through the minister, this is a criminal service, the general police administration and all the logistics of the police, Slovenian citizens and citizens have nothing, the result of this reduction in security in general. All of these things that we have heard here, that it is necessary to provide in all parts of the administration and in all organs some conceptual or some political compatibility, have led people in the police to wonder who the colors are and what a stand alone action can mean in a particular case. The result is also that subordinates know that their political suitability is more important than their expertise, especially strict compliance with the guidelines, and that they sometimes do not comply with the law. Does this, for example, affect the reduction of corruption that this ruling elite has so fondly talked about at the end or since the middle of the previous term? I'd say no. This is not some assessment of the opposition Member, but it is also shared with us by the people who are following these processes from the outside. Who? GRECO, say, OECD, et cetera. I'll tell you about it. When the Minister refers to data on the reduction of these corruption problems, he or she refers to data on the period of three to five. That year, the seven we're talking about in this interpolation, I'm afraid it's nothing. And that is why I am giving the Minister the opportunity to respond to this lack of research on corruption from five to seven years of age so as not to refer to old data. In May 2005, the GRECO Group informed that the anti-corruption Commission would be abolished. GRECO then defended its position in the report that Slovenia, with an existing anti-corruption commission, met the requirements for the establishment of an independent body, after the closure of the commission after one year of operation, GRECO could no longer conclude that Slovenia complies with the requirements and requires further information from the Slovenian authorities. This is from December 9, 2005. On 10 March 2006, it is clear from the report that Slovenia provided information that the current authorities have taken a different approach in preventing corruption, but requires further information on concrete steps to implement anti-corruption policy in Slovenia. The report does not show which body Slovenia listed as a body dealing with the prevention of corruption. These are the questions they ask outside. You will also be "cassaging" these questions as the accession of Slovenia to the OECD begins. There is also one of the important elements of the fight against corruption. The OECD report on the state of corruption in Slovenia says something that the current government cannot be proud of. It says that the priorities and commitments related to the fight against corruption in Slovenia have deteriorated in recent years and mechanisms and the suppression of corruption should be strengthened. What do you think of this minister? In addition to the unimaginable legislation, the OECD representatives are also disturbed by the practice of how the role of the MNZ in corruption from the highest levels in which the Executive Authority has its authority and in it is clearly visible. But if you had serious intentions with corruption, then you would first deal with those eyewitnesses that relate to people sitting next to you in the government. Of course, we never know anything special about this. We've asked a lot of questions. More questions are asked by the public. Practically after most ministries and questions are mostly related to the implementation of public procurement and the answers are usually such. that they are formal. No one's really happy with them. And their content is rarely believed. If only we'd gone in two areas. In the area of health and external affairs, many questions remain that bring about the advent of customerism, but it was not observed that the Minister would react in a particular way. We have a daily report in the media about the construction of the pediatric clinic. In disputed transactions worth more than a quarter of a million euros, that was the great advice on the electrical installation project. This disputed transaction was obtained by the company of the former advisor to the Prime Minister of the Government for the Economy. Does that match the definition of customerism or not? When we read about the supervision of investment projects, if we go to the current minister, she is being charged with misusing her position as an official and deliberately violating the law on public procurement when she gives away the work of engineering advice and supervision over all investments, projects financed by the Republic of Slovenia and for which the Ministry is responsible in the healthcare sector, and that of Perspektiva d.o.o. and Šostanja, whose co-owner Mrs Tinauer is supposed to be a personal acquaintance and her friend. And of course we have here again stories about their business years ago. At the Oncology Institute, Mr Minister, the technical takeover of departments was made several hours before the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia received the report of the super-supervisor on construction errors. What a coincidence. And I could count it. Look, these are the things that indicate that the Ministry has lost its compass regarding the persecution of illegal things. If he is not concerned with what he is or does not know how to define these things that are closest to him, how can he effectively pursue even more complex acts? But to conclude, if we look through this optics of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union over the years, this ministry of yours will prove to be a great deal. You will certainly boast about taking over these commitments at the Schengen border, and you will certainly be able to either boast about taking over the euro. But surely many will say that one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency was also, I will say tolerance and multicultural dialogue. If we evaluate the work of you and your ministry through this priority, Slovenia will certainly earn a terrible stain. Because in these matters, not only do declarations count, but they count the number of conferences. And Slovenia is known around the world as the one where the police expelled the Roma family from their home and Slovenia is known and you as the minister as the country that persistently refuses to solve the problem of the deleted. If this is a contribution to multiculturalism, then it's hard for us to write. It is, of course, most controversial that you tell your colleagues in Europe that constitutional law is necessary to enforce certain rights. What does that mean? That Slovenia has constitutional obstacles to the realization of human rights. This instinct is something that doesn't hold any judgment. Because if we had these limitations in our constitutional system, we would certainly not be able to join the family of European countries. That is why this is not only bad, but an argument which shows that those who have designed it do not understand the good or the importance of human rights, nor all the declarations they provide, nor that it is an integral part and basis of our constitutional system and that human rights must be respected without reservation. Therefore, there is no need for any specific constitutional corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. You received the reply of Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, to the interpretation on 21 December 2007. I give the floor to the Minister for the explanation of the written reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. I am sure that you have read very carefully and carefully the answers to all the indications contained in the proposal for interpolation, and you have, of course, been very careful to monitor today the performance of the two motioners with the eyewitnesses that have been repeated and, of course, with certain matters that have been added to what has not been written in the proposal for interpolation and are not subject to laws and the Constitution. In the beginning, I must say with great determination that I deny or reject and reject all the evidence given in the interpolation. I will briefly take the written response of the interpolation, which has been and given the number of readings that have been added, I will briefly explain what the ministry has done in three years and something else has done. First, I'd start with the first readings and follow the eyes, just like they were written in the interpretation. With regard to the fact that a regulation has not been adopted to further define the scope of the inspectorate's work, I must make it very clear that the then Head or Chief Inspector has asked the Government's Office of Law in writing whether it is necessary to adopt this Regulation. Why? Simply, the Private Protection Act was passed in 2003, the following year the Inspections Act was adopted, which detailed and systemically regulated how inspections are carried out. We have received a clear written reply that this does not need to be regulated in a specific regulation because this is already regulated in a legal mother who has clearly defined all the procedures. As a result, we did not approach the drafting of this Regulation because we were clearly told that this is not necessary. Of course, some of the provisions and more precise definitions concerning the inspectorate were laid down in the amendment to the law adopted last year. So I say that at no time has the Ministry ceased to implement the law and acted in accordance with the Inspection Controls Act and respected all the provisions listed there. Regarding public deception in relation to VIP Protection. It must be made very clear that there was no misappropriation of the public; it was always only an explanation of the conditions under which the licence could be withdrawn in accordance with the then applicable Article 40 of the License Act. It may also be very good to read that paragraph in article 40, which may have been overlooked by the applicant by chance when he prepared the interpretation and reads: "If the Ministry responsible for internal affairs, only or on the basis of a written proposal from the competent inspection services, chambers or police, finds that the holder of the licence has repeatedly infringed this law and the rules on prevention and protection of competition, he shall be given a provisional withdrawal of the licence." These are commutative factors where the practical law has been written in such a way that it has not been possible to withdraw the licence from anyone who has violated only one of the provisions and, of course, those who get to know each other in detail know the meaning of the commutative factors listed in the law and, of course, here are the bodies that can act together, so we have also proposed that this area be regulated differently and now it is arranged differently. In the last amendment of the law, there are no longer the cumulative factors listed, but they are listed in such a way that the withdrawal of a licence may be granted for each of these offences. With regard to due diligence and action, I must say that the Ministry and the Inspectorate were effective and acted in spite of the restrictions in the law in such a way that they carried out inspections and that they proposed in 2006 and 2007 a ban on the operation of activities in five cases. Of course, there are also indications that I have been misleading the public with evidence at the expense of the Chamber, the Council of State, the National Assembly, the Members and Members here in the National Assembly. I need to speak very loudly and clearly. When I was asked why and how the Ministry of the Interior acted after Lip's events, I said a series of events. The Ministry of the Interior has drawn up a law. The government confirmed the law, the law went into further procedures, but was not adopted. I didn't charge anyone with this, and I didn't take responsibility for anyone. Of course, different people can understand this differently, so today I have repeated the sequence of these events that have taken place. The disastrous situation in the area of surveillance of security companies I must make it very clear that at this time the police and the inspectorate carried out an extremely large number of security controls in the area of security services. [[...]] The police, with their regular forms of work with regular controls carried out in the area, in the local environment, carry out coordinated and continuous measures on the premises themselves in order to prevent negative safety phenomena mainly in the environments where certain localities operate. And, of course, immediately thereafter, it is clear that I did not respect the orders of the President of the Government and the conclusions of the political college which was cited. Here, of course, it must be made clear that the Ministry has significantly increased the number of inspectors working in this area during my term of office. Nobody talks about how many of these inspectors were under, of course, the previous Government and how they worked and by way of, they were also educated, so they didn't have exams for an inspector and they didn't do it until 2005. However, it is also necessary to make clear that part of the decision of this political college, which has also been overlooked in the interpretation of the competent ministry, reads as follows: "The competent ministries will examine the current legislation in this area and, in the event that it is necessary to supplement or amend it, have also proposed appropriate amendments which would lead to greater efficiency in the conduct of inspections and the consistent sanctioning of violators. The Ministry of the Interior will further strengthen the supervision of security services that provide security services and scrutinise the conditions for their operation." The Ministry carried out a number of measures, we thought that at least two discussions in the working bodies of this National Assembly, where we discussed in detail both the Lip case and the Global case, where all the data were presented, how many measures and what types of controls both the Inspectorate carried out in connection with other inspectorates and the police with its regular forms of work. If I continue to touch on the law on the register of electoral law. It must be made very clear here that we, or that you, have adopted a bill in Parliament on 2.12.2006, which has otherwise defined how this area is regulated. As a result, the Ministry of the Interior was instructed, on an official basis, to complete the home registers and, on the basis of the existing records, to enter all data of Slovenian citizens who do not live in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia into the electoral registers. We have approached this work immediately, involving people in the Ministry, in administrative units, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in our diplomatic and consular offices, and on an official basis, the Minister's or his professional service has entered all the information we have available in this directory. At no time has there been any change in this, other than with the information we had on official duty. If the authority does not possess the particulars listed here, precisely what is entered by the applicant, the Ministry of Justice cannot, of course, enter the data, but only enters the data that it can. The electoral directories change constantly, daily. Persons who acquire citizenship who are deprived of their citizenship, persons who are 18 years of age who die and, of course, in persons who live outside the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia does not have absolute control and does not receive up-to-date data on whose day someone has died and of course we depend on what citizens or their relatives tell us. Only on this basis can we make any change to the electoral directory. It would be impossible and unacceptable for the Ministry to set a limit on its own, at which age someone died and to also report that this person is dead if we do not have official data. It is very easy to tell the public that we have, I don't know, some people who are 100 years old abroad and it is very difficult to legally record certain data and, of course, identify someone as dead. This is unacceptable and will not change the data for this ministry in the future, except in accordance with the law and the official records that we have at our disposal and which we will have at our disposal. As we know, the elections for the President of the Republic took place legally and the Ministry of the Interior has carried out only the conclusions adopted by the electoral commission. Nor have any violations been detected in relation to voting by post of Slovenian citizens living outside the Republic of Slovenia. So this observation and this fear that has been expressed is practically superfluous because the evidence itself and the actions that have taken place in this regard are very accurate. Every day, the Ministry has an extremely precise number, up to the exact number of persons who have the status to vote in the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, the comparison that was given here and speculation that if we had so many people that we wouldn't have information for all the voters in the Republic of Slovenia, that would mean such a number. This is just speculation, misleading the public, and I must strongly oppose it. For citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, of course, we have certain rules. We know exactly where their permanent dwellings are. If we have and have some cases like this, people aren't reported anywhere. I think it was the last elections for a few 200 people who have no record of their official residence and, of course, they are listed in the so-called zero electoral list. Which, of course, means that whenever these persons appear on any voter in the Republic of Slovenia, their status is checked and, on that basis, they can also vote later. If I touch the Plut thing. I must say that the Plut issue has already been very much said in Parliament's working bodies, and very much has been reported. Internal controls were made. The government has also adopted certain decisions in this regard and, of course, all these data are very and precisely accessible to all Members as well as to the public. Of course, some things need to be said, which are also evident in the interpretation itself. First of all, the Minister of the Interior is not responsible and has no influence on the Committee on Conditional Exemptions. I have no jurisdiction in this matter, I cannot influence it and, of course, this authority is elsewhere and, of course, the Minister of Justice, who is to form this commission, has no control over the work of this Commission in the sense that the public may imagine it. There is, of course, a precise structure, there is only one person who is employed in the Ministry of Justice, but otherwise this commission is composed of representatives of the Supreme Judges, the Attorney General and, of course, in this group, they decide who is eligible for conditional leave. During the probation period, as you know, Silva Plut committed some crimes. The police investigated, arrested, detained, brought criminal charges against him, and, of course, before his release, the police also specifically alerted him to the crimes committed, which were still pending, and that, of course, Pluto was on parole, out of prison. Nevertheless, there was a decision that came about. I can't judge the decisions of other authorities, and I don't want to do that either. All I'm talking about is the facts, so then there won't be another misunderstanding of who we're laying on. With regard to the crime committed by Plut in the Republic of Serbia, of course, it must be made clear that the police have done everything in their power. Even more, it encouraged other authorities, both the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice in the field of justice or assistance for the possibility of bringing criminal charges against Pluto in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, it turned out that the charges had already been filed with the Serbian Prosecutor's Office and under their laws, Serbia could no longer and, of course, did not provide any evidence of Slovenia on the basis of which the police could later or then file any criminal complaint. It is a very complicated procedure, if I say so on the one hand, and on the other hand it is very clear what is the competence of which authority and what it can do. Even if the police had brought Pluto to an investigative judge with us because of international tyranny, he would not have had any legal basis to hold him in custody for this act. Nor did the Serbian authorities in any way wish to carry out the hearing of Pluto when he was only in detention and the process of preparing the indictment was ongoing. Of course, with regard to my involvement in the work of the police, the whole interpretation in some way contradicts you. At one point, it seems to me that I've intervened in the work of the police. In the other, I'm told that I didn't interfere with the work of the police. And that's the part where I'm told that I didn't intervene and that I should intervene. We all know, and especially you Members know very precisely what powers the Minister of the Interior has and how he can act and direct the work of the police. For this there are guidelines of annual, regular, ad hoc, extraordinary, all of these elements which can be used by the minister to guide the work of the police. And if we are talking about communication with the public, I would like to quote the opinion of the Institute of Comparative Law at the 2001 Faculty of Law, not during this term, so I don't think it will have to be rejected that this policy direction has emerged. In 2001, the Institute of Comparative Law in the Faculty of Law gave such an opinion as I will now quote: "The Minister can therefore, within the Ministry, including the body in the composition, turn to any organisational unit or individual worker and give them a mandatory instruction for their work and may order them to carry out specific tasks or take certain measures within the limits of their powers arising from the competence of the body in the composition and the final result of the ministries, and to report thereon. While this communication is generally carried out through the head of the body in the composition, there are no obstacles to direct communication for the Minister if he considers that this is necessary." Therefore, the amendment to the Police Act was not later made in order to make some kind of back cover, as was said here. This coverage was not necessary, the amendment of the law was made simply and simply to be clear and that it would not be possible to discuss in the future whether the Minister has jurisdiction or does not have jurisdiction. In the final stage only the Minister is the person who comes to the National Assembly and is responsible for the work of the entire Ministry, including the bodies in the composition of the Ministry. However, with regard to the question that was raised at the time and the exclusivity, I must say that the police generally use forms of work, as described here by the proponent, to have press conferences, to, of course, inform all the media through the press through a circular, but of course, it should be made clear that the police are also answering the individual questions of individual journalists, individual journalists and these messages do not send to all journalists through a circular and do not organize a press conference for every matter. And in this particular case, it was precisely that journalists wanted the answer to that question and they got it. The answer, of course, did not threaten the procedure, the criminalist who made an oral statement to the media, was explicitly warned that he must not violate any law and that he must make a statement only within the framework that the law allows him to do so without jeopardising the procedure. It is also clear to me, of course, that I ignored some of the duties of the Police Act and that the police did not adopt and publish the rules for carrying out the test. So there are no tests. It's just the opposite, and it's a little strange that this observation appears in my mandate. The police have drawn up such a regulation and I have adopted and signed such a rule on the basis of Article 71 of the Law. However, this article has been in the Police Act since 1998 and no previous Director-General and no Minister has regulated this area. So last year's case was finally settled and it was specifically ordered in the 2007 annual guidelines to immediately, immediately approach these forms of verification, the knowledge of police officers. With regard to short-term training. Of course, it must be made clear that this is the training of police officers to protect the state border. That the programme consists of these officers getting all the necessary knowledge they need for their work to protect the so-called green section of the border. And that we can say this now, according to the experience we have so far, these persons are fully carrying out all the tasks ahead of them. And there is no way that we can link these trainings to other events as mentioned here. Like in the case of Greece. In the case of Grečarić, there were no police officers in that group of police officers who went to training, to the ranges we have in this region of Slovenia. All the officers were police officers who graduated or police high school in Tacno, or police academy, and were members of special police units. So any hint that there were incompetent police officers there is completely, completely inappropriate. Furthermore, it is obvious that and to a large extent has been said something, GRECO and some other institutions are reading to Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of the Interior is only one part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Government acts as a whole and takes decisions collectively, as you know at its meetings. This, of course, does not help me to avoid my obligations in this regard. However, I can say that we have taken quite a few steps in the area for which the Ministry of the Interior is specifically responsible. We have changed the organisation of the work of criminals working in the field of corruption. After the hierarchy we moved it higher in the hierarchy and tied it directly to the leadership of the police. What has not happened in the past and what has been the main observation in 2002 to 2004 and of course we have changed this and thus increased the ability to respond and direct the police work with the very top of the police force. However, it must also be made clear that the number of criminals who did this has increased and the information that has been given to deal with this is only one criminalist, which is from before 2005. Now he's working on this area with more criminals. We have changed this and, of course, we also have criminals in charge of this area in the area of police administrations. At the same time, of course, I must say that the police have dealt with several crimes at that time, which have signs of corruption and, of course, have also brought criminal charges. There are quite a few of these specific cases that have been presented. The last such case since the end of last year is an indictment against three customs officers who have committed some criminal offences including corruption and bribery. The deterioration of safety conditions mainly on roads; it must be made very clear that the surveillance and presence of police on Slovenian roads has not decreased; it has increased. And if we look at statistics and the actual police action on the ground, we can see that the work of the police on this site has increased significantly since 2006 and intensified significantly. We've seen a lot more, we've seen a lot more violations of road traffic regulations, we've given 19% more fines, we've also given a lot of warnings that the new ZVCP Act 2004 gives us, and it's been given a lot more, and 25% more alcohol-tests have been determined. Unfortunately, the percentage of drivers' guilt also increased significantly from 2006 to 2007 and, worse still, the level of alcoholisation of drivers has increased significantly. Last year we had a smaller number of accidents, but they were worse and more tragic. And last year the police took more than 200 vehicles. It's called motors and cars, because of various violations. So it is very difficult to accept the allegations that the police did not act, did not act and that somehow withdraw from Not least, the police and the ministry, including my orientations, have taken some steps and new steps to ensure safety on Slovenian roads. [[...]] We are equipped with new vehicles that allow better and more efficient operation on the highway cross, and finally these vehicles have shown their value in some recent, recent, ten days ago, where we were able to detect and stop vehicles of the highest price classes that were stolen. One vehicle was Jaguar, stolen in Italy, another vehicle was Bentley, stolen in Monaco. In short, the police are increasingly visible on the highways and operate in the sense that it is necessary. As I have dealt with more tables than road traffic prevention in my mandate, I must make it very clear that the law adopted in June 2004 changed the shape of the tables, so that all the tables would have only the coat of arms of the state on the table, but the former Minister, I do not know why, probably due to the proximity of the elections or anything like that, did not do anything about it, the deadlines of when this should have been introduced, were extended at the same time as the coming of me to the Ministry that both the professional public and the interested public and individuals were sending letters, e-mails, requests that we maintain this diversity of coats of arms that we have in Slovenia and after a thorough assessment of all this, including more interviews with Heraldika Slovenije, I decided to propose to the government to change that too. But it's not the most important thing about it. Most importantly, for the first time in the history of the state of Slovenia, the Ministry launched a call for a table. First time. Previously, all of this was being arranged just like this, without public calls, hidden from the public's eyes. Now that we have done so, despite the complaints, despite the long-term process, we have achieved, once a new table of 8% reduction in the price for citizens starts this year, despite the greater protection of the tables and the greater safety of the plates that will be present on the tables themselves. As far as the abolition of one or some organisational unit called the Prevention and Training Council is concerned. No such organization can be abolished by the Minister. The Minister doesn't have any authority to do this. I strongly deny that I, as Minister, have abolished the Council for Prevention and Education. But the truth is somewhere else. In this House, the government, which was in power until 2004, abolished the Prevention and Training Council. She shut it down. She wrote that this work would be done by an agency that would become a government service, an organization that would do so. But that's not the worst thing that's ever happened. There was no tolar in the budget in my ministry and in no other ministry, then we had tolars for the operation of this agency. Not even a tolar was committed by the government to the operation of this organization. When we took over the government and when I took over this ministry, I was aware of these facts and it was necessary to decide how we would proceed. After a lengthy consideration, the decision was very simple. We need the Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Education and in accordance with the transfer of the powers of the Road Traffic Act to the Ministry of Transport, this Council has also gone there with all its powers, with all its forms of work. Moreover, all organizational forms of work hierarchically throughout Slovenia remained and worked further. If an agency were established, all the saints on the local level would no longer exist because there would be no legal basis for them to exist. It is relatively unusual for me to be told that I had withdrawn an organization that was abolished in May or June 2004. Then we legalized her again. This world plays an extremely important role. The government has provided funds for the operation of this Council in 2005 and in all subsequent years, despite the fact that these funds were not foreseen and that we had to redistribute them with a balance so that we could even provide normal work. A poor quality of criminal charges, which is evident and a reference to 31% of the complaints sent to supplement. This is the statistical data that the proponent has shown, and I went to look very closely at the website and the documents myself - this is the statistical data that the prosecution has shown, of course, but of course something that is extremely important has not been written. And what is that? The fact that these 31% of the charges have been filed in addition to the fact that these are all the charges that the prosecution receives. Not only from the police, but also from those who serve them, from natural persons and from legal persons. As you know, the prosecution doesn't just get complaints from the police. Any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia can press charges against the prosecution and, of course, the prosecution will decide later whether these charges are complete, incomplete and send them to the police, mainly the police, then to supplement them. And of course, operating with data that 31% of complaints are unqualityly written is not appropriate and does not hold a serious opinion. At the same time, of course, other things must also be said that we have taken quite a few steps during my ministry to improve the quality of the complaints. They have done quite a few trainings because we have found that the quality of handling complaints across different administrations across Slovenia is different. They were dedicated with prosecutors, and a training programme is also being prepared on this subject, which is in the final stage of verification, so that we will issue a special training programme with prosecutors this year, where prosecutors and criminals working together in this area will be trained to achieve better quality of work. Reduced level of research and reported crime. It is necessary to take a very clear look at the statistics. From 2003 to 2004, we had a terrible and drastic fall in the investigation. I don't remember any questions. Although I did not act in politics at the time, I do not recall any question that any of the government, the current opposition, would ask serious questions to the then minister why the investigation of crimes in the Republic of Slovenia had been reduced by 5% and what was happening to the police? Why does he only work for Schengen, why doesn't he work elsewhere? No issue has been addressed in this area. In 2005, we were able to stabilize this fall. From a few percent drop, the investigation has indeed declined in 2005. It decreased by 0.5% at an increased crime rate. However, in the following year we were able to improve the investigation of crimes and raised it by almost 2%, exactly 1.9%. And this trend continues. In 2007, this trend continued and jumped by a further 1.5.2%. The real police have managed to ensure by means of their organisational receipts that they have improved the level of investigation of crimes in the territory of the whole country. Of course, from administration to administration, statistics are different and I don't think it makes sense to go long and widely in all statistics on this. And of course, more importantly, the fact that the police have increased the percentage of crimes committed on the basis of their own work is of course more important. So, of course, the police have been successful at this and have managed to effectively confront the crime that is emerging. With regard to the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security or on the non-implementation of the organisational strategy, as is evident in the interpretation itself, of course I will not resort to misquoted paragraphs, articles and so on, this is likely, if I am not ill-intentioned, a typographical error that can happen to anyone. However, by the way, quoting and referring to certain articles is wrong and to chapters, totally wrong. Everything you describe is in another chapter, but it's not that important. It is important that this Government has drawn up a Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2007-2011 and that we have done everything possible to be effective in this regard. We have established interdepartmental cooperation, we have established it, we have set up all the institutes to successfully confront various forms of crime. Of course, it must be made very clear that the 98 Police Act required such a document to be prepared at that time. From 98 to 2007 no such document was adopted and no one started to prepare it. The work began practically at zero, and the documents prepared earlier were not at such a stage that they could operate with them. The government has prepared a programme, sent it to this National Assembly, you Members and Members of Parliament have accepted it, confirmed it, and the Ministry has begun to implement it. Of course, it must also be made clear that I am doing my job on the basis of this and working with the police by giving them basic, annual, multi-annual orientations, in which I very clearly record what their work is and what I expect them to do, and of course also with instruments that I also check within the lower part of the ministry. Some of the additional things that have been exposed here I will try to touch in the end. However, I would now like to say something about the main objectives that the Ministry has had in this mandate and the work that has been done in this mandate, and which speaks about it, and with them I can reject the allegations that have been made here today, directly, that the state of the spirit is bad, that the system does not work as it should and that practically nothing has been done. Perhaps I would first touch on the main objectives which the Ministry has had and which it wanted to ensure and I think most of these objectives are well achieved. First of all, raising the quality of police security services, then simplifying the procedures for citizens and improving the quality of services in the field of administrative internal affairs, the project of integration of immigrants into the Republic of Slovenia, ensuring more cost-effective public consumption, increasing the quality of the work of inspection bodies, which are in the Ministry and, last but not least, the normative work programme we have set ourselves and then, of course, two very important priorities for Slovenia's entry into the Schengen area and for the Presidency of the European Union. If I touch the improvement of police work. I used some data earlier, and of course it should be made clear that the investigation of crimes, the general investigation, statistically speaking, increased from 39% in 2005 to 43.3% in 2007. Which is a significant increase in the investigation in this area and that the police from 8.6% of the crimes detected from their own activities have reached 11.2. Which is also a major and significant increase in activity. In 2007, the police carried out and carried out a large number of complaints in the field of economic crime to the prosecution. I'm not going to list all the cases here right now. I'll count some areas. It is mainly tax evasion on oil derivatives, damage to the budget because of this, intrusion into computer systems, money laundering, abuse of official duty, whether in casinos or in companies, misuse of payment cards and other areas. Above all, it is also necessary to say that the police have gone to those setbacks that we found after the departure of the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration, Mr Slak, where we discovered over 450 delays. Some of these up to date from 1998 to 2003. These backlogs have been eliminated and now the Ljubljana Police Administration deals only with those actions that have been reported and which are under way since 2007 and some due to the complexity of the investigation procedures in 2006. Special attention has also been paid to corruption. As I said, we have also moved the organisational structure completely differently. We have put ourselves in a different position and, of course, it is very clear that one thing is the principled opinion issued by the Commission on Corruption. The law, which defines their definition, is very broad and also speaks of moral principles and so on. The laws that define the police, our work in the area of detection of crimes, corruption and, of course, prosecutions are much narrower and are exclusively based on criminal law and, of course, the police cannot define these areas so widely. Therefore, we must follow the law, the prosecution will judge our case on the basis of law, and the court will decide exclusively and solely on the basis of criminal law and not on the basis of other laws and broader definitions, which may also be present elsewhere. In 2007, we investigated several serious crimes of murder and armed robbery. So the police have been extremely successful in this area. However, we must not forget, of course, the work and participation of the Slovenian criminal police in the international space. This may seem irrelevant to someone, but due to the quality of the work recognised in Europe, Slovenian criminals, Slovenian police have great confidence and have played a central coordinating role in some international actions between the law enforcement authorities of Germany, Austria, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and we have been able to detect euro counterfeit money in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many arrests have been carried out in the territory of all these countries. With direct operational work, the Slovenian criminal police cooperated with the Croatian criminal police, discovered a factory of personal firearms used for professional killers and terrorist attacks. The factory was searched for several years, unfortunately a lot of details cannot be said so publicly, but solely because of the involvement of the Slovenian criminal police, this factory was discovered and then also withdrawn. Slovenian crime police have seized extremely and, of course, border police, I have to point out in particular, they have discovered large amounts of drugs at our border crossings, inside. We have discovered extremely large quantities of chemical substances that are essential for the processing of heroin. Even this year, there was a very resounding action a few days ago, where we seized a few tons of different chemicals intended for the processing of drugs, called heroin opium. Last but not least, what is usually forgotten is that Slovenian police, both uniformed and criminalised, have made all preparations for the introduction of EVRA and that we have not had any attempt or robbery of tolar transports from banks to central bank or to the National Bank and, of course, the distribution of EVROV. As you know, in most countries of the European Union, when the EURA was being introduced, there were attempts to rob, even the robberies of the new cash that was being exchanged at the time. In Slovenia, due to preventive work, due to the good organisation of the police, we have completely avoided this and we have had excellent cooperation with the police of neighbouring countries, who regularly informed us of all the information of potential groups preparing for such robberies. It must be made clear that we have found in the police that some forms are bureaucratic, that they require a lot of work from police officers for nothing. The effect is nothing at the end. That's why we started to shorten these procedures. It is not so easy to move the entire system of 9,500 people and these changes need to be done with caution and caution. We have reduced some administrative obstacles. The Minister of Justice and I have proposed a law that has substantially reduced the proceedings of the criminal authority. It must be said that in 2004, the police received a large number of tasks in the area of the criminal authority with new legislation and no jobs. At that time, the government decided that the police could handle the forces it had and had not approved any additional employment for this area of work. We tried to do all of this so that it would be as good as possible. Finally, it must also be said that the police are trying to improve their cooperation with other authorities within the country. Thus, with the State Prosecutor's Office, we have made additional arrangements for a more rational treatment of easier criminal acts. With the Customs Administration, the police have signed an agreement whereby we have within the police a current customs official, that the flow of communications is faster, that we are more efficient at work, and in particular that we stop organised crime at our borders. If I touch still the maintenance of public order and peace, I must say that since 2005, the violations in this area have been falling, we have fewer applications and, of course, I am very pleased with this fact, I also attribute it to the fact that the police have been working preventively in the environment since 2005, 2006 and 2007, and of course also for 2008 that the police work in the local environment should be specifically targeted, to show these results, where, if we look at it this way, the statistics of 2003, when we had 61, almost 62 such violations of public order and peace, this has fallen to 48.300 in last year and this is a constant decline of these violations, which means, of course, that the police in this field of work are still very difficult to deny. We must also say, of course, that the police have been extremely involved in major sports events, and apart from one, two exceptions we have practically had no major accidents at sports events. The police also carried out some very successful protections in this mandate, not only now that the Presidency was held, even before the protection of the OSCE session, where there were over 60 ministers at that time in Ljubljana, the NATO Summit, which we successfully protected, was both us and partly with the help of the Slovenian Army. Finally, of course, it must be said that the police have engaged strongly and resolutely in domestic violence, where, of course, some of the legislation has also made it possible for the police to work more effectively in this area. Of course, the police have also made extraordinary efforts to prevent violence in the Ivančna Gorica area and it was not at all what was said here today that the police forcibly relocated anyone. It wasn't about that at all. It was the fact that the family itself expressed its desire to move from there and not least, that the police only allowed them to move safely from one location to another and then ensure everything to ensure their safety and security for other citizens in the area, so that even worse or more serious problems could not arise. Road safety. I've talked about death victims before. There is something to be said very clearly, something about road safety. In view of the fact that Slovenia has taken major steps forward since 1994. We had almost 800 dead on Slovenian roads in 1994. Measures have been taken. By means of these measures, we have reduced the number of dead. We have reached a point where, with the measures we have implemented so far, we can no longer be effective. We've practically been in the same place for the last four or five years. There is no way we can reduce the number of dead on Slovenian roads below 240. We never had this number of the dead, and from year to year, the number unfortunately swings, rises by a few percent or drops. In order to be more effective in this area, the Minister of Transport and I have undertaken a complete overhaul of the legislation. Now, the law currently under consideration, which is in the process, is trying to provide certain measures in the short term to reduce the number of dead on Slovenian roads. However, if we want to make a long-term change, we must first of all change, radically change the way the law works, fundamentally change the way the punishment is done and, of course, take the other measures that will help. A lot of preventive action is needed, of course, something needs to be done around the roads, and I think the government has provided huge funds throughout my mandate to build a highway cross and, of course, to enable better integration. Of course, it is also necessary to tell some other facts and these facts are how many registered vehicles there are in Slovenia. In Slovenia there are significantly more registered vehicles than there were years ago, such as a very simple example, the number of registered motorcycles, in 2002 there were about 18,000, last year there were over 30,000. This is a significant increase in the very specific segment of vehicles that appear on our roads and, of course, related to certain safety problems. At the same time, of course, it must be made clear that transit traffic through Slovenia has also increased significantly. If we had about 280 thousand trucks transiting Slovenia at the border crossing in 2002 we had 1.1 million of them last year. At the two largest border crossings with the Republic of Croatia, where freight traffic is the most common and bus traffic, we have 350 thousand trucks on one side and 350 thousand trucks on the other, plus the number of buses that are transiting Slovenia. So it's an additional 1.4 million vehicles transiting Slovenia. All this traffic is, of course, causing certain additional safety risks on our roads and, of course, the police must also approach the operation differently. That is why we also started building a stationary grid of radars last year and, of course, what I mentioned earlier about vehicles that could work more effectively on the highway cross. The area of state borders and foreigners, of course, we must make it very clear that, due to the various forms of action, operations at the borders themselves, cooperation with the authorities of other countries, the good agreements we have been able to sign, rejection with the countries of origin and transit and some of the other measures taken by the State, we have managed to reduce the number of illegal migrants that we have experienced in the past between 2002 and 2005 between 5 000 300 and 5 000 800, we have managed to reduce in the last year to less than 2 000 500. Of course, successful arrests, cooperation with the police of Croatia, Montenegro, Albania, Greece, Egypt, where we broke entire networks of human smugglers through our territory, of course, at the final stage, to Italy or to Austria, and beyond. And all these measures and police work in this area have helped us, of course, to have a number of illegal migrants at our borders less and, of course, to prevent the tragedies of people from their countries of origin, who in an extremely cruel and harsh way are trying to transit organised criminal societies through several countries in totally inhuman situations. And by doing so, we have contributed our share to the change in this area. Of course, it must be made clear that the Slovenian police are also working effectively with international organisations in this area, in particular to point out to Frontex that the Government has committed itself, that it will also contribute certain equipment to prevent illegal migration and that, of course, we will be able to work successfully in this area. Finally, of course, it is clear that one fact that may be somewhat neglected is that the Slovenian police, in the mandate of this Government, took decisive action for the first time at the southern border and protected the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and the citizens. As you know, in 2007, we had a special Slovenian police action in the Hotize area, where we protected the interests of the country and did not allow it to try to prejudge the borders in advance. In this particular case, the Slovenian police have proved to be effective in this work, and this work has been done extremely professionally without any additional problems and there have been no additional incidents in this regard. Finally, it is necessary to say, as far as the border is concerned, that I have also personally managed with the previous Croatian Minister to conclude such arrangements, that in 2006 and 2007 we did not practically record incidents in the Gulf of Piran and that we have ensured a somewhat more peaceful life for all those who sail in this Gulf of Summer either by private boats or on organised trips in this area. This, of course, is an important achievement. In recent years we have always had some ten or even more incidents of situations that have, of course, caused a lot of problems. I hope that we will also be able to ensure this level of situation in the area in the future. Logistic police support; of course, it must be made very clear that during this period there was an enormous amount of funding invested in the logistical support of the police, for their operation, and finally we also had European funds, which, of course, ensured the construction of several buildings, some border facilities, some police facilities at the border itself. However, it must also be said that, within the budget, by redistributing money, we have ensured that we have bought a new DNA investigation line, thereby ensuring better quality of work, faster work and allowing Slovenia to join in direct links with regard to the Prime Treaty, which you have ratified in this National Assembly and the exchange of information for countries already having such exchanges. Currently, such an exchange is only between Austria and Germany, and this year the Slovenian police, as a third country in the EU, will be able to join this operation. It is an extremely demanding project, but it runs very well. Last year and this year we also ensured a substantial modernisation of the rolling stock. If only for illustration, in 2005 I found that the Slovenian police have fewer than 45 engines capable of driving and day-to-day patrolling on Slovenian roads than 150 police officers who are supposed to carry out these engines, which is unacceptable, so of course we acted and provided additional resources within the budget, without a balance and provided two larger engines. Both in 2007 and 2006. And even this year we will get an additional amount of engines that will enable the police to work normally, including in providing transport safety in particular and, of course, in certain other matters. Two helicopters were also purchased to protect the Schengen border, but of course these helicopters are also used for other purposes. After many years, we have also finally started to buy vehicles, combined vehicles, domestically, all known as "marices", which have been relatively old, worn out, and are now in the stages of replacing ground vehicles, which we separate into two categories. Vehicles used on macadam roads and in less demanding areas and on ground vehicles used for extreme conditions that require such equipment, so that they can, of course, be practically anywhere. Since 1992, virtually nothing or two or three pieces of vehicles have been ordered in this field. The Ministry has tried to improve the working conditions of the police in every way and thus indirectly influence the quality of work and improve standards and ensure the safety of citizens. With regard to complaints about police work, we can find that since 2003, when we had such complaints in just over 1300, this matter has fallen significantly in 2005 and also in the last two years and we have come to a significantly lower number of complaints. Of course, it can't be my fault, I hope at least I'm not that people complain less about police work. Any citizen may complain about the work of any police officer. That's what we're dealing with. We've redesigned the work of the appellate bodies. We have made it more effective, more transparent, and we need to make very clear what has also been stated on several occasions to the Ministry to deal with complaints on our own within the Ministry and to do everything. The Board of Appeal shall consist of three members. Two of these are the external public who are not employed in the police and are proposed by local communities and other interested communities, and the police have no influence on which persons they are. And there's only one member from the inside public. It's from the police. When I realized that some police officers were not involved in conciliation procedures, I specifically ordered guidance, which, of course, can be proved, because all the guidelines were public, I ordered that police officers should take part in conciliation procedures, because otherwise there is no such procedure for me if both parties are not present at the site of the police officer's superior. And above all, the situation has improved significantly. Of course, there is also something to say about the research commissioned by the Ministry and every year by independent institutions, according to universities, information about how the Slovenian public is satisfied with the work of the police. I am personally pleased with these results that we have received because they show a great degree of confidence in the work of the Slovenian citizens. In last year's survey, conducted by the Faculty of Applied Social Studies, which has received a call in the public tender, like all other calls for proposals, 96% of Slovenian citizens were found to be trusted by the police in Slovenia. Of these, 48% of respondents assessed confidence with the highest possible score of 4 or 5 on the 5-stage scale. 38% surveyed by grade 3. This, of course, gives some good opinion on the work of the Slovenian police and, of course, it is also important to say that the satisfaction of the people with the work of the police is assessed with an extremely high percentage. However, when we look at how high we are in the European scale and according to European estimates, we can see that in the 2006 European Social Research Security Assessment, Slovenia is at the summit. In front of Slovenia, only Norway, where they assessed how citizens feel threatened or very threatened if they walk in their neighborhood at night. In Slovenia, only 10.2% of people do not feel safe if they move in their neighborhood in the evening and only Norway is ahead of us with 8.6%. All the other EU Member States are for Slovenia, with the extreme output of some old democracies that have more than 20% of people who do not feel safe when walking around their environment. To extremes where we have over 50% of people who don't feel. Of course it's one of the new members. I'm not going to name the countries specifically here, but you have a graph ahead of you, and you can see it. So it would be very difficult to accept that only I estimate that the police are doing relatively good. Independent research also shows us what people think about cops and how cops do it. Officer ratings, average Let's say an assessment of the accessibility of police officers, how citizens estimate, if available, has a score of 3.57. [[...]] You need to know that we are a repressive body and that those who have been punished for speeding or for untapped belts have also been investigated. And yet the grades are extremely, extremely high. Of course, other evaluations were also present here, talking about police being more accessible than they were in 2007. They are assessed as more professional than in 2006, 2007 compared and, of course, all this data gives me some optimism that Slovenian police are doing well. Above all, it is important, of course, that in 2007 an assessment of how aggressive police officers are to increase their rating. That we're less aggressive. In short, it is one set of assessments that indicate that police officers are still trying to ensure everything that is necessary and that they work well. Control over police work. I must say, this surveillance is systematic, extensive. We have two forms of surveillance. One shall be exercised by the Director-General through his office and shall, of course, exercise all the powers he has as Director-General of the Police. At the same time, it is necessary to make it clear that I, as Minister, also have all the levers to exercise control over police work, and I use them every time I think that this is necessary and would not be satisfied with the results of the controls that would have been carried out within the police itself. There has never been such a case before, but of course I have such options. Basic guidelines for the preparation of the medium-term plan for the development and work of the police in 2008 to 2012 have also been developed. On the basis of these guidelines, the police have drawn up plans. I've identified six strategic objectives inside. I'd like to give them a quick quote: - the effectiveness and effectiveness of the implementation of tasks for the prevention, detection and investigation of crime, in particular the focus on organised crime and corruption; - maintaining public order and reducing violence and vandalism; - the effective performance of police tasks and the reduction of traffic accidents with fatalities, serious injuries and increased safety on Slovenian roads; - the protection of the state border, the prevention of illegal migration and the implementation of the Schengen acquis; - the organisation of the police, which will enable the effective management and performance of the tasks. This is an area that, because of the many tasks we have had in this mandate, we have not been able to do, but I believe that decisive steps must be taken in this area so that the police can be even more effective. With some organizational receptions, the police have already shown that it is possible and that it is more successful. Statistics also show this, after all; - I have also recently identified a further strengthening of the reputation of the police and of the professional training of police officers. If I focus on improving the quality of services in the field of public administration of internal affairs from the police field. First, I must say that, as you know, in 2005, we abolished the completely unnecessary label introduced in the previous mandate, which has cost people their expenses. Therefore, we have introduced other systems that have equally effectively implemented control over the payment of all those contributions that a citizen must pay when registering a vehicle. The transition was fast, efficient and did not detect any deterioration in revenues, revenues to the state budget for toll payments, which was the main reason why the label was introduced. So we unloaded the citizens and saved them about 1,600 dollars in their money at the time, which they paid completely needlessly and had a lot of bad will in the beginning that they had to do it at all. Local competence to miss a passport was abolished. Some other local competences have been abolished, so that citizens can now solve a very large number of things in any administrative unit, regardless of where they are, which has made the work of citizens significantly easier, especially those who do not work and live not only on their permanent residence, but are present either because of study or because of work on temporary residence. I must say, as Minister, I have met with extremely large backlogs, incomprehensiblely large backlogs, in particular areas. If I stop at administrative traffic first. The day I ordered a review of the pending cases, I found that there were 335 outstanding cases in this area. We've begun to put an end to these things. I must stress in particular that we have not employed any person or any additional employment in the Ministry to close the arrears, and at the same time we have followed the government's programme with a 2 per cent reduction in employment in the administrative department because the ministry is separate from the administrative department and to the police, where this reduction is not necessary. With the same amount of people we've eliminated all the backlogs we've had in this area, we've got zero numbers, you can also look at dates, and we've done all the regular stuff. With regard to foreigners, on the same day 31.12., we had 652 pending applications for permanent residence permits under the Act on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries of the former SFRJ. You're here today to tell me that I don't want to save the status of people from other republics living in the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, you had 652 requests you didn't want to solve in time. And it was a backlog, it wasn't a backlog for a day, it was a few years behind. We have resolved all these requests, and now we have 26 pending requests, of which only 15 are due, the marriage period in which the matter must be resolved. These are extremely complex cases that we are working on and, of course, all those that we have received in due course during this time have been made. And of course, we have some requests that are still in the hands, the legal hands in which they will be saved. Nationality, this is an even more complicated matter. The application for citizenship, the former government has produced, say and write 7 000 886 arrears. These backlogs and some of the applications were 10 years old. It was so that when someone applied for citizenship, they did not put it on the top, put it at the bottom of the cup, and then pulled it out of the top and sent it to the person who gave it to it, including to the Slovenes who lived in place of the fact that the expired certificates of impunity had been issued, and confirmed the extract from the birth certificate and then, after all that had been completed, they put it down again. And so we produced 7,000 886 backlogs that someone didn't want to save, he didn't know, he didn't want, I don't know. I don't do that. I deal with the problems I solve. And I've been dealing with this problem so I've ordered the backlogs to be eliminated. During this time of this term, we have obtained a new 5 000 991 requests and we have only 90 pending cases to deal with today. All the other backlogs are over. I don't know what they did years ago. By four percent, with six percent more employment, because each year we have reduced the number of people by 2 percent, with the funds that we have been provided for the regular wage for workers we have been able to reward these people and eliminate all the backlogs. So I really don't know what kind of face someone can show and what they've done for all those who've submitted. Of course, these roles include those who have not settled their status in 92 and who now have this resolved. Such persons are also among them and have been lying for years and years. Asylum. In the area of asylum, the previous government has acted in such a way, I am sorry to say, but this is statistics, it has worked so that although I now hear almost every month almost how ugly we are, cruel that we do not solve asylum matters, that I do not know what we do, that I personally do nothing in this area, we can stop very quickly in this area. There were 377 backlogs at the end of 2004; they dragged on for years, no wish to resolve it. When someone asks for asylum status, you know what's most important to me? The most important thing is that those who are entitled to asylum be dealt with as quickly and as effectively as possible and have all the rights they are entitled to. However, it is not that years and years go by and that people do not know what their fate will be after the completion of the procedure. In this area too, of course, we have eliminated the backlog and this year we have 97 such procedures in processing, all of which are within the deadlines that determine that we have to resolve asylum procedures. And, of course, that's what we're going to do. If I touch on the areas of the different registers we have dealt with in the past period, I must say that in the period since the Minister made quite a few changes in the field of different registers, if I touch the parent register first; with the introduction of an electronicly maintained home registry, we have abolished three manual led homebooks. The plans that have been made and we have foreseen that we will enter data for several years have proved to be too pessimistic; with good organisation of work, the guidelines that the Ministry has given to administrative units we have managed to introduce up to 1.1 million people; that is, we need to bring all the history into place so that we can then work with this data. We have problems with the entry only in the largest administrative units where we have organised work so that they come from smaller administrative units and enter all of these data so that, of course, they can only run the home register as quickly as possible. We will be the first European country to have a fully-run home registry. The next thing we have introduced in this area is that we have introduced so-called e-births where birthplaces enter birth data electronically. The other ten Slovenian births will be included in this project in this year and practically every day or every few days we are closer to having the next births join. At the start of this project, more than 1,100 newborns were introduced electronically. The permanent population register, which was led up to recently on the charts, of course we have put in electronic form and already 33 administrative units from 60 in Slovenia operate electronically, and of course this means that a set of household records is going through this and no longer needs citizens to walk from body to body and wait for various certificates. Passport register. I have to say that we introduced a geometric passport, that was a rather difficult project, we were in time trouble, we had to capture the dates so that we could maintain a visa-free regime with the United States of America, and we were successful. Our passport has also proved to be one of the safest passports in all testing because we have a polycarbonate side and again, for the first time in the history of Slovenia alone, there was a call for such a document. First time. It was precisely because of the international invitation to tender that we were able to lower the price. A passport that is better protected, which has a biometric chip in it costs less than the citizens paid for the previous passport, which was just as good a passport to keep us clear. However, he was less protected and had no chip. The minimum protection is three, four euros. We even reduced by 2.51 euros by 32 pages of the passport and 0.95 euros by 48 pages of the passport. This has, of course, saved us a lot of money, especially for our citizens. Nationality register. We have established a computer application log that we have not had before, this allows us to control the whole process and we can find out where we have what delays, where the work is not going as it is needed and we can be more efficient and we can work faster. We are connected to a register for foreigners that allows us to closely connect data and, of course, to do better. A draft redesign of the vehicle register has been completed, we have reduced or made it possible for us to have a direct view of the Ministry in the technical checks where the procedures are automated. So we can control the ministry if we try to do something different or something, which is a vital step towards progress in control. See, in 2007 the Register supports the central accounting of all collected annual toll payments, so that we can for the first time centrally monitor how all these payments are paid and how these contributions are allocated to where they are to be, which, of course, enables essential quality. Foreign register. A new register of foreigners has been set up since December 2006, of course in accordance with EU rules, and licences are issued for both family members and foreigners living here. Links are between registers for foreigners and records, the RS Employment Office, which enables us to have a completely different quality of work and control over this area of work. We have established an asylum registry, so that we now have all asylum procedures run computerically and at any time we can know how individual procedures are going and at what stage they are. We've created a data warehouse. This is particularly important for administrative units that produce different reports, we have standardised certain reports and the programme allows us to introduce an additional programme with the requirements of individual authorities and to obtain such reports and statistics as we need. Central Population Register, here we record an increase in the number of users in this register. You will probably not believe it, but from the central register of the population run by the Ministry of the Interior, which ensures that all applications run as necessary, almost 60 million data were transmitted last year. These are very large numbers. Therefore, we must, of course, have security schemes that allow us to monitor all the time that there are no possible abuses and, as far as I am aware, we have not yet had data abuse in this e-business, which, of course, speaks of projects being well-prepared and well-planned and, of course, I hope that will remain so in the future. We have also created an e-CRP portal to further improve our work in this area. We have expanded the spelling set, which is extremely important, because in the past computers did not support the writing set for the languages of the Italian minority and the Hungarian minority and, of course, we had some problems with this. In e-commerce, we could not afford this, and we have therefore improved the letter set so that they can now also receive minority certificates with all their specific letters used in their own language. These may be small things, but it seems to me that they are particularly important for both minorities, so that they can also fully use this e-portal. Renovation, we are currently renovating the register of identity cards, we are going to establish an e-photograph, we are going to point out the right database to which the authorised photographers will be able to have all the conditions to safely transfer the image, transfer the image to the central base and the citizen who will come to the counter, if I say so, to the administrative unit, will tell his data, give a document, he will want to change the document. The official will show him his picture, which will be already in this portal and then, at such verification, the image will be automatically transmitted. They will, of course, be removed by means of these notes, which must be fulfilled, and this will also be associated with the machine readability of the code record, which is on the current ID card and on the passport, so that all of this data will be automatically printed. At the same time, a sign plate will be introduced in a very short time, so that practically a citizen will operate at the end of this year at the beginning of next year practically without a form on the counter itself, which will significantly reduce the time for a document to be ordered and, of course, also production, due to some other receptions, it has also happened that we are now able if someone urgently needs a passport today or tomorrow to travel, we can make passports in these emergency cases in one day. This was not possible before when the mail was sent and the documents were carried. Communications are secure, protected and there has been no abuse in this regard. The driver register is also being updated, allowing for the central issue of driving licences and other areas. I would particularly like to highlight the project of integration of immigrants into the Republic of Slovenia. It has been repeatedly said here that what we have done in this area has been done. In 2007, we exhausted certain funds from European funds and ensured that we built two integration houses in Slovenia. We did not have this in Slovenia before. Those who are granted asylum are now allowed a transitional period to survive in such a house in one year, where they are allowed easier access and easier integration into Slovenian society. So it would be very difficult to accept the evidence that we have been told here that we are to celebrate as a country that does nothing for those who come to our country. We have set up a refugee record, as is of course necessary, and as I said, we have drawn all the funds that are needed three. I must say that we have been extremely successful in drawing on European funds. Drawing European funds from the Phare programme and the Schengen Facility through which we built the Schengen border and supplied certain equipment. The use of these funds will be between 96 and 70%, which is an extremely high percentage. And, of course, I must say that whether it will be closer to 7 or 96, it is difficult to say that two projects are still being completed and some projects are still in the stages of verification by the European Commission or the Brussels Office, which will confirm the payment of certain objects. So I think that this is an extremely important and good achievement that we have managed to draw all this out, because otherwise we should pay from our budget. Furthermore, I must say that the acquisition process in the Ministry has taken place in a different way than it has been in the past. Before each call, we are doing market analyses that provide data, what are the prices in each area and what can be expected from calls for proposals. We have put in place further negotiations. In the most important projects, we are, of course, clear instructions on what kind of negotiations I have been personally involved in some negotiations, because it was simply not possible to convince the contracting authority to further reduce prices and achieve large reductions, from 11% to 24%. Every year, we have saved more than a million euros on this account every year. And that's why we were able to get those resources that I described earlier at the police station. The biggest savings in one of the negotiations that we made, which I participated in and implemented twice an hour, was 20% savings, which is half a million euros in money. We had 277 public tenders. At that time, we had only 29 audit requests, which was less than 2% and only 10 were successful, which means that these services were also doing fairly well and that we were able to carry out all those calls that were needed quickly and efficiently. You know the Court of Auditors' report. We never got negative grades. We got 'em with a reservation. Some minor irregularities have been reported to us, but the situation in the budget has been extremely good. And I think that, in general, the ministry has been extremely economical in terms of material costs and consumption alone. Inspection controls. In the course of inspection, I must say that the Inspectorate was not established until May 2004, April, May 2004. That there was an extremely small number of inspectors in it. That none of them had a completed inspector's exam with the completion of their term of office. That these exams were done in the first half of 2005. Start working. They cover an extremely wide range of activities. And most importantly, the number of inspections has increased dramatically. In 2004: 109, 2005: 220, 2006: 273, 2007: 315. Also in the area of private protection, the number of controls increased dramatically from 29 in 2004 to 109 in 2007. Each year there was a slight increase in these controls. At the same time, the quality of the work of this inspectorate has increased, with some new employment and the arrival of the new inspectorate, work has improved significantly. Work is purely professional. They follow all the legal provisions and fully respect the Law of Inspection, which is essential for work. Cooperation with the police has also increased. We've done quite a few joint actions at the locals. The last few days in Primorsk, who immediately gave birth to certain results. At the same time, there is strong cooperation with other inspectorates, and also through the Board of Inspectors, I think that things are now going much better and coordinated. It's a normal part of the program. Very briefly. The Ministry has prepared 47 proposals for acts, resolutions, ratification laws adopted in the National Assembly. There are currently five such rules at your disposal. Two of us have already submitted to the government and have completed this year’s work plan to the full. At the same time, I must say that the performance of planning and implementation has been extremely high. Every year, we had over 92% of the entire normative part of the Ministry of the Interior programme. We have also adopted in three years 108 acts prepared by the Ministry or signed by the Minister. If I touch the last points for a moment. This is the Presidency of the European Union and the entry into the Schengen area. Perfectly, I leaned on these two points at the end. I hope I have some time left. I must make it very clear that preparations for the presidency have started far back. We have prepared a joint programme in the tripartite Presidency with Germany and Portugal. This programme started in 2005 at the professional level. I was personally directly involved in these agreements and these conclusions in September 2005 and 2006. He is currently working on this project for about 100 Ministry staff. For we have an extremely large number of working groups that we are covering and in which we are currently extremely successful. Of course, we have prepared everything we need. The list of priority tasks, the road map, as it is called, is based on plans for how we will work and achieve these goals. We also have extremely good cooperation with the next French Presidency. Yesterday, I hosted the Minister of Migration of France, where we discussed strategic approaches to illegal migration and migration in general and asylum procedures. We are taking part in all matters related to this. We had the first informal world going well. The evaluations of foreign ministers were extremely positive. I have also had two shows in the European Parliament. One on the LIBE Committee and one on the plenary session. There are still many activities that we will have to carry out this year. At the Schengen entry of Slovenia, I must say something very clearly. Without the Slovenian police, without the readiness of the Slovenian authorities for internal affairs, without work Please. [[...]] But I'll answer later when the microphone's back on.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the word on behalf of the SLS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u8	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members, Members, as well as all those who are likely to be watching this meeting today in front of television broadcasters. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have examined only the interpretation and the response of Minister Matei to this. Let us begin by saying that, despite the conclusion of the co-operation agreement during the Presidency of the European Union, we did not expect the opposition to give up its legitimate political work within the National Assembly. Although this is an extraordinary national project, I think, of course, leading the European Union, we are also aware that elections are approaching the National Assembly and that we all want attention and live our five minutes of glory. Interpellation covers many points and readings, but in the position of the Group of Members I will only touch some. Let's go in one order. All of us are still alive in memory of the tragic events in front of the Lip and Global discotheques. Interpellators acknowledge to the Minister the responsibility for the indirect tragic death of young people due to opportunistic and weak functioning or poor coordination, non-action and lack of control of private security companies. The Minister's reply shows that there are completely different cases of violations of the Private Protection Act in these two cases and therefore we cannot compare them. In the case of Lipa, the Ministry of the Interior acted swiftly and effectively because the law also allowed such conduct. In the case of Global, it is clear from the Minister's response that the Ministry of the Interior has acted in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Private Protection. The Ministry was aware of the shortcomings of the legal provision on the temporary withdrawal of the licence, which made the procedure for the withdrawal due to procedural obstacles almost impossible and therefore also drafted a proposal for amendments to the law following an urgent procedure which further allowed the temporary withdrawal of the licence to VIP Protection. Despite all the tragedy of the events that have taken place, in the SLS Group, we believe that Minister Mate has properly, convincingly treated the reported infringements. We will, however, insist in the Slovenian People's Party that the real culprits are identified for the resulting tragedies and that only these will be properly punished. Let us briefly touch on the following reported violations to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Matei, concerning the allegations of the holding of elections for the President of the Republic of Slovenia. It is an indication of the timely, legal and up-to-date establishment of a register of electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Some of the concerns of interpolation investors seem to us at first sight to be weighty. However, further reasoning does not convince us this time of the rationale behind their accusations. One of the fundamental human rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the right to vote. This is all that every adult citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has. It is the responsibility of the competent authority to register a national of the Republic of Slovenia who does not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of information that he has and does not have at the request of an individual. We agree with the Minister's argument that it is incumbent on the Ministry of the Interior to allow the exercise of electoral rights to any citizen who has reached the age of 18 who is not competent to take away the right to vote from an individual for whom he does not have the actual data on the cessation of that right. According to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, electoral rights are one of the fundamental rights whose enforcement must be subject to all legal security standards in order not to abuse them. According to the Minister's replies, in the SLS Group, we believe that only this reported violation has been rejected. Let us move on to another tragic event that too often tries to abuse itself in current, daily political accounts. This is the sad case of Silva Plut, where tragic events in the Republic of Slovenia have occurred, in our opinion, due to the stiffness of the criminal justice system. Especially when the case gets international dimensions. The relationship between the rights of the accused and the right of the State to take care of the safety of its citizens has long been the subject of debate by experts in criminal law, human rights activists and, on the other hand, the repressive authorities of the State. In such cases, the boundary between one extreme and another is very blurred and extremely sensitive. We can go quite quickly either to the side of the exaggerated enjoyment of human rights of the accused or to the side of excessive oppression of those alone. Some legal theorists count the defendant's rights as one of the fundamental civilisational achievements. In the SLS Group, we regret that there have been tragic events, but according to the ministers, we agree that the Slovenian police have done everything in its power and that in this case they have done their work lawfully. Let's also expose the Strojan and Ambrus families. An excellent example of how to take advantage of an issue for internal political struggles and, by the way, to blacken Slovenia before the entire European public. We wouldn't be here to sum up the entire history of acts and, above all, the events that led to the events in Ambrus. In particular, inappropriate action or non-action has, in our opinion, led to all known events and extremely complex situations and very serious security situations. The police were forced to ensure the order and security of all parties to the conflict. We believe that she acted lawfully and in accordance with her authority. We are wondering whether one of the loud critics of police conduct would take responsibility if a crime against his body or property had been committed against any of the persons involved in the conflict. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that it is the duty of the State to ensure respect for the law of all citizens and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Laws must apply to all equally, regardless of religion, race, sex, or nationality. Finally, the observations referred to in point 5 concerning the responsibility of the Minister for Traffic Security. Unfortunately, we must also find, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, with regret, that the state of road safety from year to year is deteriorating again. We agree with investors and the minister that the police are not the only ones who can influence what is happening on Slovenian roads. We agree, however, that if the police are to improve road safety, they should increase their presence on the roads and increase their activities with regard to the verification of alcoholisation of drivers and excessive speed. Despite the fact that the Minister of the Interior proves that the presence of police officers on Slovenian roads is not diminishing, in the SLS Group we believe that we should increase significantly. In this regard, we welcome the Minister's decision to increase preventive and repressive activities by upgrading and increasing the presence of automated traffic control systems that will monitor traffic at the most exposed points all the time. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support amendments to the Road Safety Act, as we believe that the only penalties combined with increased control will achieve their effect and thus increase road safety. In spite of the partial agreement made by the interpolation investors, we believe that this is not sufficient reason for the Minister's discharge and we call on him to take these findings very seriously and also to take appropriate action. As it is said, in this introductory part, we will not touch on all reported irregularities, but the Members of the SLS Group will comment on them in the discussion below. Despite some of the important findings of the interpolation investors in the SLS Group, we will not support their proposal to relieve Mr Dragutin Mate of his role as Minister of the Interior. With his written answer and his opening arguments, he convinced us more than he convinced us that he was doing his work legally and in accordance with the Constitution. We will also be happy to hear further his answers to some of our and other concerns. So once again, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will vote against the discharge of Minister Dragutin Matei. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Matej Lahovnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President, Mr Minister. First of all, I should like to congratulate you, Sir, sincerely on the achievements you have mentioned today. For many, you deserve congratulations. For the introduction of Schengen, for the removal of stickers, congratulations. These were good moves, and it's only right that I commend you. It is even more appropriate to commend you also in that you have undoubtedly not only proved yourself in these areas, but that you have shown today that you are also an excellent policy that this government is overcoming. In fact, in response to the interpolation, you spoke about all the other achievements that are certainly positive, but you savvyly avoided all the perceptions in the interpolation, all the things that were actually very bad. All those things in which you abandoned the law's obligation to enforce it and the consequences were severe. Ladies and gentlemen. Interpellation in such cases is an urgent tool which the opposition must use. When a minister abandons his duty, when he violates the law and there are severe irreparable consequences, interpellation is a logical act. And that's why we filed the interpolation. Not because we do not agree with many other good things that the minister has also done, and this must be acknowledged. But they have also occurred, we have also been faced with violations of laws, and there have been severe irreparable consequences. No one can deny it today. And if I go in line, first of all about the readings, which, of course, I must say again, were not rejected in an argument, but I listened carefully to the Minister's arguments. First of all, it concerns the non-controlling of security guards and private security companies. The arguments of Interior Minister Matei that he has done everything necessary in the field of security and security control do not contain serious professional criticism. It is the minister's duty to ensure such conditions of control over the private security industry, which, of course, would significantly reduce the irregularities we have witnessed in recent years and which have also led to the deaths of young people. What must be stressed is that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for ensuring the conditions for the effective functioning of the institutions that are part of its work cycle. And yet he actively tolerated the situation that by the end of 2006, more than five thousand private security employees in about 130 security companies had only been supervised by the Chief Inspector, who had only been assisted by another inspector in his work. When the management of the Internal Affairs Inspectorate was taken over in September 2006 by the new Inspector General, who had previously been a co-worker of the Interior Minister in the Defence Inspectorate, the work of the Inspectorate was strengthened by two new co-workers. This means that the Minister of the Interior believes that over 6,000 employees in the private security sector can be adequately monitored by three inspectors. And then, honourable Members and Members, we ask what is going on in Slovenian discotheques. How can such a private security mess be, how can many teenagers say that there are many contentious things happening, that they do not feel safe and that Slovenian parents fear sending their children to discotheques in such a private security mess. The fact that many institutions, including the Institute of Public Administration, have found that the Minister has not issued a regulation on how to conduct a private security inspection in three years. Which, of course, means non-compliance with the obligation imposed on him by the Law on Private Protection in Article 81. The law is clear and clear. Of course, the Institute also notes from the above that the Minister does not carry out his or her duties under the law of specific powers in the field of private protection. The Minister shall not exercise his or her statutory powers in the field of private protection. In his mandate, the most tragic events took place in this area. In his term of office. In three years, it has not issued an appropriate regulation nor has it acted accordingly where it has been called upon by the institutions operating in this area from the Private Protection Chamber and many other institutions. And we have clear letters inviting him to withdraw the license from VIP Security. When there was a time when we could have prevented the tragic consequences that had happened. And nothing happened, nothing, absolutely nothing. In a way, the Minister has repeatedly pointed out to the public that he would not be able to take a temporary measure, because he would not be empowered in any way, and that it would not make any sense, but rather a temporary withdrawal of the licence, Mr Minister, is temporary precisely to protect people's lives and does not need a legal decision to do so. That can't be any excuse. The temporary withdrawal of the licence is by definition temporary in order to prevent severe irreparable damage that may occur. And nothing happened. Nothing at all. Later, Mr. Secretary, you issued a provisional measure in the case of VIP Protection. You did not perform it for a month, but at that time, you will not believe, there was some sort of by-pass and it happened that all employees and contracts with VIP Protection were transferred to SAVOY, which continued smoothly to manage its activities. It's just a Baypas, and things are moving on the same path. Two days after the provisional order for VIP, SAVOY has already obtained all the permits for the implementation of private protection and in one month a company has been revived, which is now carrying out this activity forward. In the ZARES Group, we are wondering how it can be that in Slovenia in 2008, in a country that proudly says that it is presiding over the European Union, how can such a private security mess rule that leads to tragic consequences. How can parents not even hope to send their children to discotheques? How can teenagers say that safety is not adequately ensured? And nothing happens. The practice shall continue smoothly. These are worrying things. Even if we are now talking specifically about the tragic event that took place before Global. The fact is, nobody caught the unsub when it was time. The unsub's on the loose now. Apparently, the police don't know or refuse or can't take the appropriate measures to arrest him. According to my information obtained directly from the parents of the deceased, he himself told me that the other perpetrator had not been able to walk freely for much longer and had not been arrested for intervention until later. This is also Slovenia. There are, of course, some other cases that have led to interpretation. If we are talking about the Plut case, which is very well known to all, the fact is that according to many, many legal experts and acquaintances, the police and the State Prosecutor's Office are indirectly responsible for the death of Ljubica Ulčar in this case, because it was a number of unacceptable mistakes. These legal experts believe that the police had more than enough information for a reasonable suspicion of the detention of Silva Pluto, while Serbia and Montenegro should obtain all the necessary documents and nothing happened. Our legislation specifically requires the police to prosecute offences committed by our citizen abroad. However, in this case, this must also be acknowledged to the Minister, is not entirely responsible on him, and the prosecution has also waived. After receiving the notice from Serbia, which pointed to what Plut had committed at the time, the prosecution orally called for an eighty-hour detention order for Pluto to provide time to obtain the relevant documentation from Nis. The prosecution simply did not respond on the basis of oral guidance and we were in a situation where nothing happened. In another case, in the case of Postojna, the police were monitoring, monitoring the activity of a famous family, monitoring who was coming, who was going, where they were moving and taking action. In this case, when there was a tyranny, when it was clear what a crime had been committed in Serbia and that this person was freely walking in the territory of Slovenia, when it was clear that it was very dangerous and the police did nothing. They orally informed the prosecution, and the prosecution apparently did not respond to this oral statement. This is also a case from Slovenia not from elsewhere and it is actually difficult to understand how such events can happen when we have all the data. We know what a person has done abroad, in a foreign country, in Serbia, the media has reported extensively, and the police have reported nothing. Nor did it provide any control that could prevent a tragic event. The next thing you need to mention is a deterioration in traffic safety. In addition to the lack of awareness of the problem of poor road safety, the Minister has demonstrated by a recent amendment to the law by which he has delegated the tasks performed by the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council of the Republic of Slovenia and which are to be carried out by the unestablished Public Road Safety Agency to the Ministry of Transport and recategorised them as public officials. In response, the Minister even wrote that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had decided not to set up the Agency because they had estimated that they would spend too much money to do so. Too much money. Apparently, in this country, Minister Bajuk is not saving only on social transfers, on those most threatened by high inflation, and then reaches the surplus of the budget. We also save on road traffic prevention. Some say that we have a developmental budget. The Minister therefore abolished the only organisation that has carried out action in the field of prevention and transport education and which has acted as a single body since 1972. He has therefore abolished the organisation which has carried out action in the field of prevention and transport education, and he now clearly expects state officials to carry out the de facto abolition of the Council's tasks better and more effectively than the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council, which has had a very long tradition and reputation in the public domain, and the Government is not at all prepared to provide them with the means to operate them. The next thing to be mentioned in some way and luckily it did not affect the outcome of the presidential elections is, of course, the Law on the Registration of Election Rights. We all know what was going on, that in some way the minister did not properly update the electoral registers and that before the last presidential elections in Slovenia we had some idea when the public found that voices were sent abroad to dead souls, that voices were sent abroad to persons who were not even Slovenian citizens, that many who were Slovenian citizens did not get them and so on. And in some ways the accident or the awkward case is that the result of the presidential elections was quite undeniable. But we can all ask ourselves what would happen if in Slovenia Florida was repeated in 2004, when every vote in the United States was made, and what would happen if similar situations were experienced in Slovenia. On such an important occasion, and we say that elections are a holiday of democracy, the state cannot afford unscheduled electoral directories. Unscheduled electoral directories mean playing democracy, and these things are unacceptable not to be arranged. The latter in some way, and certainly not least, it is important to note, however, that at least in this National Assembly, when we were also given the mandate of Minister Matthew, events that obviously remain hidden forever under some kind of rug and obviously the public will never know what really happened. It's a bank robbery. Does anyone else remember the bank's SKB robbery, which was carried out in extremely strange circumstances, very unusual circumstances? The only red thread that is also drawn through the interpellation is that again, somehow, private security services have been miraculously cancelled. We are talking about the Ministry's role in controlling these services, and we are talking about an event that hit Slovenia very hard at the time, because it was actually an event that they might once make a movie or make a movie about, but obviously those who would do it still don't know who the director is, who the screenwriter is, and who would actually be the producer of the bank's SKB robbery. In fact, there's obviously a lot of open stuff, there's a lot of unanswered questions left, and somehow things have come up. Everything else is open. And again, things went under carpets like many other stories and affairs. And to be clear, I do not tell the Minister that it is directly related to not being misinterpreted, but the fact is that if you are a Minister of the Interior and such a scandalous matter happens, it is so important that the matter remains open on so many open issues, but it seems unacceptable to me. The events I mentioned earlier, which have ended very tragically - the Lipa cases, Global, the Plut case - are related to a whole range of open questions that we still have no answers to. We still don't have any answers. This is not unusual, and it is not unusual for people to feel that the security situation in the country is deteriorating. These are also facts that need to be discussed. In the Zares Group, of course, we support the intervention against Minister Matei, and we will vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister. In particular, we believe that, regardless of the result of the vote, which is unlikely to be in favour of the discharge of the Minister, in view of the statements made by many, we believe that it is necessary to hold a debate in this House on this occasion on what is happening in the area of security in the Republic of Slovenia, what is happening in relation to the supervision of private security services. This is obviously an important sector, a big business. More than 6,000 employees work in this business and are controlled by only three inspectors. There's a lot of money turning around. A company that is directly involved in a tragic case that is somehow removed from this activity by the withdrawal of a licence in two days as follows: hip, hip, hip - scary trick set up by pass. There shall be a pass and contracts and employees shall be transferred to it and an activity under another name shall take place. These things must be controversial. These things need to be discussed honestly. I hope, honourable Members, including those from the coalition, that we agree, however, that the area of private protection must finally be regulated once. The bottom line is that these private security guys come in contact with teenagers every day. I don't think he's a parent in the Republic of Slovenia who wouldn't worry about the disorder of this area. That is why it is important that we have this debate today. That is why it is important to look at where there has been a violation of the law, to abandon the Minister's duty to ensure that these things do not happen again in the future. This, I believe, is not what anyone in this National Assembly wants. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, as I have said, in the Group of Members, we really support the interpretation and we will vote in favour of the discharge of Mr Dragutin Matei, Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Villa Rezman, a fellow Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. It all shows, after hearing some of the introductory presentations, that the expected long debate will also be realized. But it is not bad if it takes a long time for rational consonants to withdraw from it, if it is biliary, or if it is excessively potent, or if it is in no way impossible to deny in any way, either sharp or such, which may not always have every reason to apologize. It will likely be affected, as has been the case so far, even in great detail, which is very painful, especially to draw attention to what has already happened, what should not have happened. I'm afraid or I'm hoping it won't be misused to make a certain impression. In some areas, the impression that it is virtually insufferable, as the interpolation says, is overwhelming. Because, if so, then the measures should be more radical, then the vote for the discharge of Minister Matei would be too small. We in the DeSUS Group have, of course, read both large-scale materials, estimated that they are somehow giving an image that could be called Janus's image, the image of a gate that has a completely different image on each side, and that they do not seem to have completely real contacts with reality. It is clear that on such occasions as interpolation, things are potentializing, and it is also clear why. We do not intend to cooperate in this way in the DeSUS Group; we would just like to say that something is being read out of weakness, even from mistakes, we need to consider, we need to look for measures to remedy or to prevent similar weaknesses, but on the other hand it is impossible to deny that there has been a lot of things that have been done, which does not justify weakness. We do not wish, as has already been heard today, to participate in the discussion in such a way as to demand recognition for what was good for the minister. Malone could get the impression that a hole for the foundation, for a monument due to a certain merit - Schengen and similar - already a spear. On the other hand, we do not want to cooperate as we do to attract all the sharpest criticisms and, of course, the required sequences. We understand, I would say, this debate also in the context of time; it is such that the time of the Presidency, when either the obvious or the recognition is more noticeable, that this is the time of the pre-election or electoral year, when it is also necessary to do so in order to make distinctions in the identification of individual parties or political actors, and finally what is not best is also the time of some kind of excruciation in the coalition due to certain differences, different opinions regarding the proposed or what has already been done. But for interpolation, it is clear that it must be relatively sharp, unforgivable, and in this interpolation, if only a few main readings are listed by me, the obvious is very serious. So that the government, or the ministry, or the minister, in a number of cases violates a number of laws, is not mildly obvious. The fact that there is objective responsibility for violating the most fundamental human rights, freedoms, constitutional principles and so on is, of course, not clear. To abandon the actions that should be carried out in order to implement certain resolutions that have been adopted, plans, plans on how to prevent negative phenomena in our society - this is also a relatively severe obvious. Of course, from these assumptions, those who have signed the interpolation request will logically conclude that these are problems or irregularities, which are of a sort of irreparable nature - and some, if taken at an individual level, of course, we cannot change some tragic events, and that these consequences are such that they are so difficult for the country that we also have to assess them as irreparable. If this is true, then it will be a requirement for Minister Mate to be released, surely modest, for not all these obvious weaknesses can be imposed on just one shoulder. Surely all the Government, not least the entire coalition, should be drawn to this responsibility. It cannot be said that Minister Mate himself is responsible for the said worse road safety situation, or for poor cooperation with state authorities, or with local authorities, as mentioned above. It is not possible to say that he himself is guilty of failing to implement national programmes or other programmes - I repeat - of a catastrophic situation in this area. But the point of interpolation is to make the weaknesses as clear and clear as possible; that what is interpelled is well-targeted and that this sharp discussion is duly reflected in public opinion. There has been talk so far, and it will probably be in the next hours, about a number of cases that could be called 'deja vu'. We have also talked about this, disputed many, or supported many things. But surely this, this interpretation, means some pressure, relatively strong on the minister, on the ministry, on the government, on the coalition. The DeSUS and DeSUS Group as a party are the Government Coalition, are in the Government Coalition and it is clear that we will act as a Government Partner, even though we recognize that there have been some of the many weaknesses that cannot be disputed. However, of course, we do not intend to undermine the discharge, nor do we intend to support the proposed decision, because it would also be illogical for a coalition party. Even if our Group of Members had done so, of course, this would not have had the effect of voting the decision as proposed. However, we would like to say that it is certainly not so that all of us who were obliged to do something, led by Minister Matthew, did everything that was necessary, that there was no weakness, that there was no error. We are more counting on this or we are convinced that these weaknesses and these mistakes were not planned, that it was not, I would say, with any unwarranted goals directed, but that these are mistakes that are going on, even in the future they will happen, which are undesirable and which we must try to prevent and eliminate in the future. Let me put it a little bit simplistic, because it has been said that today parents do not hope to send their children to discotheques. Yeah, I guess so. My children went to discotheques 10 years ago and more, even then we parents were afraid, some didn't send them there, but we didn't prevent them, but some fear, some fear of irregularities we'll always have to be aware of. These will never be missed. And we must contribute to as few of them as possible through an integrated culture. Of course, the first in line is those in charge of this by their functions. So let me repeat: we will not support interpolation, but let us not run away from problems that are also clear to us, and we do not run from responsibility for what may have been bad, overlooked or unwholesome.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you so much for having a good day together. Rumor has it that police officers are mostly incassants. And a lot of this is true. It is said that Schengen has brought harassment to the local population - and that is also true. It is said that police station chiefs do not stand behind their officers - and that is also true. And a lot of things are true. It is also true that police officers fear the Gypsies and do not hope to react when they should react. But I don't think it's Mr. Mate's fault. There's definitely a lot of loose ends in the Slovenian police, and if I can blame Minister Matthew, it's that he didn't clean up the old personnel. The old personnel are the ones who are still drawing that militia line in the police, and in fact, the issues of Plut, Global, Ambrus, the SKB and some other unresolved and unresolved cases remain out there. I could say that in some cases these old militia personnel are even involved in some things. I think it's gonna show up slowly who had his fingers in it and why he didn't react the way he should have. After all, in the Ambrus case, we have seen which gentlemen had their fingers around them, and because of such or other family ties, things have not been resolved. Interestingly, the locals are now pleased with how they got rid of the Strojans, but they are pleased that they no longer have them there. The country cannot be satisfied because the Gypsies are still privileged and the Strojans have received about 340 000 euros for the prize, so much the difference between the value of their territory where they were in Ambrus and the territory and the facility they received from the country. Today, Ambrus and the surrounding area sent a letter. In one part we read: "The inhabitants of Ambrus and many surrounding areas for 15 years, due to permanent places of property, burglaries in our homes, violence and fear of our own lives by the Strojan family and visitors of their camp, we felt like less valuable citizens of Slovenia. We have attributed the main blame for such a situation to law enforcement authorities who must take the first step in breaking the law, even though their responsibility is also borne by the judiciary and social services. After the last attempted murder of our fellow Ukrainian, we finally lost confidence in the rule of law. We were forced to organise ourselves in our own protection and to demand a definitive regime of unsustainable situations. The matter has been settled to some extent by leaving, and "so the inhabitants continue to write - "We have gained our trust back in time, so we thank Minister Dragontin Mate." This letter contains a list of 959 signatures of the local community Ambrus, Krka and Zagradec, which also means something: something has been done and something has been done. However, if we can congratulate Minister Matthew on this move, we must also mention here the judiciary, which in fact does nothing in this area. More than 800 criminal charges for the offences committed by the Strojjan family have not been sanctioned by the judiciary. But it is also true that the police in Dolenjska do not hope to report the gypsies for crimes, because the gypsies threaten to kill them so that their families will be beaten down so that they can burn their houses and similar things. Perhaps Minister Mate here should do something to increase the powers of police officers in such cases to use, say, a gun with rubber bullets, if not something else. Because the gypsies "burn back" pretty nice with the aK. I don't think they've done the front of the Metlika police station where a gypsy did it yet. Of course, congratulations to Minister Matthew for the control of the Strojans in Postojna. Why would that be a problem if a police officer could stop any of us on the road and ask him for documents, driver's license, and so on? For these Gypsies and others we know that they drive without "driver" exams, which is, of course, questionable, how can some illiterate gypsy even make a "driver" exam and tank on "pumps", pay nothing. If someone asks for a payment, they usually beat him up or something. Or if they're going with a police escort to Ljubljana, then they're filling up their gas tanks in such a way that cops pay for it with an official Magna card. And that's definitely what Minister Mate needs to handle. I've already told you about non-professional personnel. The police have been full of unprofessional and political personnel since the old days. As an example, I can say a great deal of nonsense that happened in the time of Mr Bohinc when he introduced the umbilical meter. Instead of preliminary drug detection tests, which was already proposed by the Slovenian National Party. The head of traffic at the General Police Administration, Ljubo Zajc, is now at the Ministry of Transport, has determined, probably following the mandate of the then Minister of Bohinc to introduce the papillometers. If anyone thinks it's some kind of sophisticated device, they're wrong. It's one card with holes and a cop comes to a man and looks through a hole at him, how big a pupil he has and then finds out whether he smoked marijuana or "sprinkled" heroin, whether he was on methadone therapy, whether he was taking any designer drugs, whether he had sugar and gave it to himself, or whether he had some eye disease and was with an ophthalmologist who put drops of atropine in his eyes or something. In short, this kind of idiotism has gone down, gentlemen, and I hope that the minister will change it and fix it. Today, the amount of drugs is determined by a simple swab or a sweat or by not touching a person, for many would have jumped to the point that the integrity of certain people is disturbed if touched by a policeman, can be blown and then removed from the mouth by that swab and can also be determined. There are already nine different drugs in these newer machines. But that's what Mate needs to change. For example, the illegal use of various secret associates. This is still the rest of the old militia days, when the militiaman was the one whose word applied to three ordinary citizens. If he said "soldier," it was sacred. Anything else, if you proved it, it's not important. That's what the militia said. Official. Regrettably, with a number of officials from the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, this thinking is still in their heads. For the gentlemen are still after most - or in many cases still from those times. And then it happens to me personally when the former United List through Mr Bohinec and Mrs Richtar's wishes to prove to me that I was selling some kind of national treasure, and when they gave me, besides the illegal secret associates, who, of course, were richly rewarded, I won't say, they paid them a fee, but the fee was still a little higher, for the political reward, because they were "fucking" Jelinčič. This whole thing was run by a gym teacher. How will the gym teacher know anything about numismatics, law, and what else? Please! This was the level of Slovenian police and unfortunately this level remained largely unchanged. Here's what needs to be changed. Imagine a gym teacher hunting an economic criminal with a master's degree in economics, maybe a doctorate. Yeah, he can hunt him for 16,000 years, and he won't catch him, maybe if he runs faster, but it doesn't work together. The gym teacher may run faster than that economist, but even the cops can know that running on short lines isn't the same as catching someone in a crime scene. Of course, some mistakes have been made, and surely there is a big mistake in that voice mail service abroad. However, a law amending the electoral law has been introduced in the National Assembly and for the President of the State of Slovenia. There was everything that was going on, there were really loudspeakers without a request, on a strange list on which the dead souls were on it; in short, they died long ago. After that, people who were no longer citizens or were not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at all, and people who had moved twice or three times, received their own voice at different addresses in the same name. On the other hand, there were quite a few people who did not receive or who could not vote because they did not ask for a voicemail. In short, it is an eccentric inequality before the law, because, say, in prisons, in homes for elderly citizens, they had to send a request, after which they received a voice to be able to vote. But around the world, we have distributed a whole series of these documents and papers, from which some have made fun of them, sent them back, thrown them into the trash, or probably still circulated in some collection archives as artifacts with which they will make fun of everything over time. The problem is certainly also in road, road and traffic regulations, and we will be discussing this issue in a short time. Of course, it goes along the line of least resistance, and that is that the penalties will increase. There's nothing to do with criminal policy! This proves the law we passed a long time ago and at the time of the adoption of the law, which also increased penalties and also reduced speed. What have we achieved? An increase in the number of deaths. Here I agree with the forerunners who say that the big mistake was the abolition of that institute that took care of preventive road safety. However, even that institution did not carry out its task, for sending around a variety of parcels is not enough. A man would expect a policeman to come to school and maybe there would be more classes together and explain to them what to do, what not to do, what traffic regulations are, what to stick to and what to be afraid of. We don't have that in us. And unfortunately, the educational level of ordinary cops is declining. Why? Because they think the police can be anyone. I still don't think he can hold what some say is a cop who's not good enough for a butcher's apprentice. I still think a cop has to have something in his head, because otherwise he can't judge between what's right and what's wrong. That's why there's a lot of work to be done here. He is still working hard to get these things on one basis, which will be solid and which will provide Slovenia and Slovenia and Slovenians and citizens with a secure life within our country. Otherwise, we will have to take care of our own safety. The Charter of the United Nations allows even organisation to protect its own security. But then when they do, let's just say they're stealing copper now. Well, all the turtles have been stolen, now they're stealing the bronze, the Slovenian monuments are getting smaller if there's any left, and when the bronze runs out, what are they going to steal? I don't know what else. And then, are we going to organize ourselves and wait for them? And since the Gypsies are armed to the teeth, whether we will arm ourselves for that purpose or something. I think there's something we need to do here. In particular, the same vats should be used for each other and for others. Because if she could grab someone who went by the red light across the road or -- the last time an elderly citizen from Ljubljana came to see me, she said that a cop and a cop were like that, she grabbed her when she went out for a walk across the street, so that she could have a bus stop closer. And you harassed her for 15 minutes. Well, those who came from Global didn't hope to get it! He says that the gentleman who is now in Bosnia and the free years around has not been snatched because he was a secret police associate - he should have been, at least that's what he's saying. Here's the mistake, and here's the one where the spears break. For, once again, this is mainly about those old personnel who use the militia methods they used in the former country. It's not that far from that country, say, 17 years about. And those who were in the police at the time learned to think according to those standards. And what John learns, John knows. And that's how it is. It is no wonder, therefore, that the matter cannot yet be based on sound and legal foundations. I mean, there's still a whole bunch of other stuff. There's a whole line left. The bank's bank robbery was also mentioned earlier. In my opinion, this is also about the involvement of the police in this robbery. The German intelligence service BNV Bundesnachrichtendienst was supposed to have footage that a police station was parked in front of the SKB. On our part, no one is doing much to find out if that's true, why it's the way it is, and so on. Maybe there are political issues in the back. Who says that there were no records in those files or in those safes that some gentlemen in every way wanted to get out, hide them, destroy them, or transfer them to a safer place? Because everything was so strangely swollen, it was so strangely pushed aside. Interestingly, those robbers who were supposed to pick up jewels or cash left it on the ground. Then what did they pick up? Probably no longer the atomic bomb plans, because it's a familiar matter, but then they were looking for other things. They were looking for connections, names and probably evidence of some financial means that went there, here, up and down. And what happened to that? Nothing! And this, the robbery took place on 1 November 2005, has been a long time since then, and it's also funny that today's interpolation investors are also talking about the bank's SKB robbery, if that's a terrible thing. Of course, it is a horrendous matter, only man would expect that, because of this horrendous consciousness, interpellation would be invested, say, at the beginning of 2006, not six months before the elections. In my opinion, this interpretation is about obtaining election points, despite all that I have said, which needs to be corrected. There is a lot to fix, but in such a way that we will support the interpolation now, six months before the elections, I don't think it will work. Therefore, we will not support the national interpolation party in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you. Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Presents. A person who works is also wrong, but a problem arises when a mistake is more than a job he deserves. Today we have an interpretation of the work and responsibility of Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, so that there will be no mistake. We've been interpelling Mr. Dragutin Matthew and no other minister ever since, so there won't be any mistake. Interpellation - I don't know why most of my predecessors think it has a negative accent. It is an opportunity for us in this House to discuss how a minister in a particular area has done his job: whether he has done it well, whether he has made any mistakes, or perhaps he has broken the law. It's not the first interpolation in this term. Ministers are, at this point, like people who are on some kind of stand before a committee at school. Of course, this committee is biased, but they're on the stand. A number of ministers were expelled by the school’s principal before they could defend themselves. Probably because they had too many sins and he wouldn't allow them to defend themselves in this house. I have to say, excuses about who respects a partnership, at least for the Group of Non-Aligned Members called Lipa, they seem completely irrelevant to us. We are not members of the partnership, nor have I ever had the opportunity to influence any partnership and some pact - in narration - about the "no attack" that someone is supposed to sign, it seems to me to be completely meaningless to speak. And to say that the interpolation or this signature is a dead letter on paper. This would mean that for six months each minister can do literally what he wants and will never be called to account in these six months, even if he breaks the law or the constitution. But if I go back to the content of the interpolation. The first point, which is evident to the competent minister, is the Law on Private Protection. Mr Minister, this law has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure and has been vetoed. Veto did it. Then because the law says that the same should not be filed, you changed one word and brought it back because you knew that you had power in this House and that the law would be voted on. You haven't made any changes to the contents, you haven't taken any steps forward. I must say, I respect your function and your work. But, Minister, like us, you're not all aware, and sometimes, I'll say, it's good to listen to a good suggestion, and if, at least in this law, respected Mr Minister, there was something about these good proposals. Yours, I'll say, insubordination, not accepting good suggestions, equals you to this government. This government a priori rejects everything: either good or bad. If it comes from the opposition, it absolutely rejects everything. And this compares you to this government, although you are on the run, at least for me you were something more in this government, if not another, you come from my end and there we all have flat spines, but in time it turns out that Ljubljana or the ministerial position can have a negative impact on anyone. Politicalization of the top of the police force. This has also happened, Mr Minister, even when you mentioned penalties and fines. 19% of fines for traffic offences should have an impact on the reduction of traffic offences. The cops aren't incassants. Last but not least, they're underpaid for their jobs. I don't know what kind of receptions you've put them down with. But when we adopted the Penal Code, proposed by your esteemed colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you said that the height of the penalty did not affect the number of crimes. Today, in your address to us Members, you have told us that because we have increased the penalties for traffic offences, their number has decreased. These are differences of opinion and the duality of this government, in which you, unfortunately, have made a mistake and not let you think. I used to be in this position with my colleagues, but we kept our backs. When you talked about economic crime, how successful the police are in the area of economic crime. Let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, and I will not go to that low-level hearing that some government clientism is also emerging in the detection of these activities. But let me tell you. When it comes to advice for the Paediatric Clinic in Ljubljana of 1.4 million euros, how many criminal charges and what they were issued against, I will operate on the name, Mr Zavrl. I believe you'll answer me because I know you still have 90 minutes. If I go to the Law on Electoral Law Records. There was this horror where there was an attempt to favor one candidate on every whim because we were talking about presidential elections and the ballots were sent just like that. You went to get your membership cards, and who has any treasure out there, you sent it to him outside, not knowing if he even lives there, or even lives there, or wherever he lives. As far as the so-called case that happened to you in Ambrus is concerned. I will not judge the work of the police, I will assess the way in which you lured the police there, Mr. Secretary. You can argue here today for a pay phone, and I can tell you that the police were there in the regular lineup, but, look at the special unit of the police station from the end of Styrian, it came in because it got an invitation to prepare for Operation Euro. I don't know if Slovenia was then afraid that the Strojans would steal the euro in any way or prevent its entry into force in our country, okay, but then tell us. And you'll find it hard to convince me otherwise, because I've seen and called and invited these police officers to this call without giving them any extra extras to keep their eyes open for four days in that dump because they were protecting whatever they were protecting. As far as security is concerned in our country, which has increased in any way in your opinion, I suggest that you consider this a very well-intentioned proposal by the unconnected Group of Members of Parliament, named Lip, let us make one presentation of the integrated image in the area of security in our country. Let's do it. Every year when you do, give twice a year, and it may be successful. I can tell you about Maribor or the wider Styrian environment, where this situation has deteriorated dramatically. I'm not interested in percentages. I'm interested in real life. One can write percentages because you, as a minister, say percentages have to be like that. Real life, Mr. Secretary, is different. My predecessors are to a large extent, or one of the predecessors has placed everything in the old days to a large extent. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the old days are three and a half years past, as long as this government has not been able to fix everything that has been bad in the old days, it is its fault, its incompetence and its failure, which is another reason for interpolation to support it as point 7. Don't talk about old times anymore! If you haven't been able to do anything in the past three and a half years about what they did wrong, then you're not worth ruling in this country. Three and a half years is enough time. As far as this institute is concerned, as one of my forerunners said it was cancelled. He was not terminated, returned or subjected to the ministry and the police; he is no longer independent, and this is the original sin manifested to Minister Matthew in the interpellation. Because under the influence of the Government, under the influence of the Minister, this institution will no longer be able to carry out its tasks impartially. It is necessary to read well, not just to say something in your mind that we have abolished something. And this minister didn't pull anything off, he just went back under the government's wing. And that's a mistake when it comes to road safety. And if we stop at road safety for the rest of our lives, every victim in road traffic is superfluous, which is what we both agree on. Together with the Minister of Transport, you say you're doing certain projects. At least 15 initiatives on my part as a member of the unconnected Group of Members, referred to as Lipa, I have received answers that the Government does not think about this because it has other projects. Also, the need to ensure human security in the Trojan tunnels first, only then to talk about the culprit and who will pay for it. There are fatalities there, too. Following suggestions from my side that freight transport, which you also mentioned as an original sin, should be resolved in different ways. Also in the field of Slovenian Railways, something could be done. You have quietly rejected all such initiatives because they are impossible. The SOS belts, which are so important on Slovenian highways, I also received an answer from the new minister - due to the lack of money and poor planning of those that this Government, not the previous one, hired from Lendava to Maribor, will not be enough legally determined percentages of the retirement zone, nor resting places. If these are the steps you've been planning, then really, God help you. The radars you mentioned, I'm telling you, the old cars that the police put at the edge of the road are more or less a problem and not a solution. Every time he sees a white car at a bus station, he automatically shuts down, even if that's not the point at the moment. I know that in my place you regularly put one Citroen at the bus station and it caused chaos and greater danger than the real radar or police control that would appear there. Radars on the motorway between Maribor and Ljubljana, where I drive daily. Whom do you frighten with those signs of speed measurement, and an empty radar? If you have a purpose, set up a radar. In the budget, you yourself have assured yourself that you have enough money to make this government plan money wisely. Fill up those radars, and all the sections, I'll say, will be satisfied and drive 130 on the whole road. But no, you probably didn't plan on doing this with the Minister of Transport. Not because I wouldn't want to, but because they don't actually have that money, Minister Bajuk and the Prime Minister didn't give it to you. That's the truth, Mr. Secretary-General. I'm not talking about cops and their work, but about cops who are actually 12 hours a day, either in a day or in a night shift, and we're not even gonna talk. What you have given them, what you have given them in this mandate, and what their wages are! We will not oppose Matthew's dismissals in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, Lipa.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u18	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the distinguished other representatives of the Government. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of Interpellation on the work and responsibility of Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, we will not support and reject it because we have the truth and evidence on our side. We claim and also stand for this that Mr Dragutin Mate is a good minister who works professionally and honestly for the benefit of all to ensure, through his authority and expertise, the enforcement and respect of the rule of law and constitutional order in our country. It is our own goal to understand from the interpretation, at home and abroad, to discredit or to take on the validity and reputation of the Minister, the leadership of the police and, last but not least, the police as a whole, which, according to the interpolation signatories, is unable to perform their work in a qualitative and efficient manner. In our parliamentary group, we can only assess interpolation on the basis of certain credible arguments or arguments supported by data and analysis. Accused claims must be based on concrete sources and data in order to be verified, not on flat-rate estimates, which sound impatient, populist and often malicious in this interpretation. Apparently, the material was ready for quick, unprofessional use. Accusations with a clear intention of making an early submission, so we can only hope, although this has already been violated today, that there will be no addition and dissemination at today's meeting of the National Assembly of any further verbally questionable charges, with false facts or half-truths that are not mentioned in the material, otherwise a clear tactic will be seized in the public. However, it will not be possible for us to verify it or to deny it in a reasoned manner. We also have before us a written reply from the Minister, who, with evidence and justifications, rejects the charges of interpolation applicants with concrete data, data evidence, graphs and analyses. All indications regarding the tragic events of Lip, Global and Plut and the complications with the Strojan family were already clarified and rejected at extraordinary meetings of the home work bodies, as well as at the meetings of the National Assembly. At these meetings, the Minister repeatedly and repeatedly argued that in all cases the Ministry of the Interior and the Police worked lawfully within the framework of the laws and powers in force. All of this is also evident from the magnetograms of these meetings, which we have reread and studied carefully. With regard to the non-licensing of private security companies, we are convinced that the Minister acted in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and the principle of legality. However, he repeatedly drew attention to the inadequacy of legal provisions that led to serious problems and problems. The proposed amendments to the Law on Private Protection were intended to complement those provisions which in practice proved to be poorly defined and unclear, both for users and for operators. It seems unheard of and distorted to us in the interpretation that the Minister and the ruling coalition, with the additions to the law, have been entangled under pressure and lies. We are bitter over this claim in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and we would never allow ourselves to write about any group of Members. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have always participated constructively in the drafting of legal supplements and amendments, because we are still aware that only if the legal powers are appropriate and clear. The tragic events that have taken place in front of Lipa and Global, we deeply regret and empathize with our fellow Members. Therefore, it seems incorrect for us to use this sad story over and over again to discredit the minister and the police only for the purpose of gathering some political points, instead of doing everything together so that something like this will never happen again, especially since we are increasingly faced with familiar and new forms of rejection in society. There are always and always will be socialities that cannot be prevented and even less predicted. We can only regret them and we are all obliged to do everything together to make them as few as possible. In the area of human security, ensuring public order and peace, preventing crime, both classical and economic, greater road safety, we Members are obliged to adopt such legislation on the basis of which the Minister, police and other responsible services, both the inspection and judicial branches of government, can act effectively and act. However, when the current Government proposed to enact laws and amendments in this area, the opposition did not surprisingly support them and voted against them in the majority, although improving these laws is in the interest of universal national security. Instead of the well-intentioned criticism of the operational part of the police and the constructive amendments to the legal provisions, the majority only hears populism criticism of everything and, on average, on the basis of "the word of the index". The claims in the interpolation in the Plut and Strojanov cases show the incredible duality of the interpelling proponents. In the first case, the abandonment of police control of Pluto, in the second infringement of the police's interference with the privacy of the Strojans, is evident. This is a behavioural pattern of the opposition's duality; on the one hand, there are allegations that the police are ineffective, on the other hand, that it is simply and too repressive. The truth is that today the Minister again explained that there were no violations of existing legislation in the police force in the case of Plut, and in the case of Strojanov, the police did not carry out secret observation and follow-up, as the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office found and confirmed. In view of this, these findings are therefore unfounded and do not hold true, and in both cases, we have debated over the long hours in the competent working bodies and also in the national assembly, where the allegations were also rejected, this time in the interpretation of criticism again, as I have already said, on the average, with one intention to discredit the minister, the police, and indirectly the government and the coalition, with the knowledge that the police are a repressive body and therefore less popular in the general public. The interpretation also reveals bureaucratic negligence in the composition of the electoral directory, the deadline for updating the electoral directory, and the establishment of doubts about the legitimacy of the results of voting abroad. Without reservation in our Group of Members, we believe the Minister that this claim is inadmissible and untrue. And because in the election, all the rules were respected and no law was broken. Nowhere, however, have we seen the data in the interpolation when, before, under which government and under which ministers have been established in the last 15 years, this record has been properly kept, because it can only be so obvious to the Minister that he has abandoned the updating of the day-to-day changes that may not have been announced at all. In the absence of this accurate record in previous periods, we can only conclude that the Ministry has done the extensive and difficult work entrusted to it in this National Assembly and must also be recognised. Interpellation shows that everything in the police is wrong, which in our view is a serious insult to more than 9,500 police personnel, i.e. all those who devote their time, knowledge and all their ability to do a good job. The Minister is clearly caused by the erosion of the security system, the deterioration of the effectiveness of police work, the poor investigation of criminal offences, the deterioration of road safety, the inability of the police to perform their work in a qualitative and efficient manner. None of these claims in the interpolation are substantiated or proven, but they are only flat-rate estimates and claims that are not supported by any reliable data. That the allegations from the interpretation that the minister and the police are unable to perform their work in a qualitative and effective manner are unrealistic, we also see the latest public opinion poll on the work of the police carried out by the Faculty of Applied Social Studies. 76% of respondents feel safe or completely safe in Slovenia. The police traditionally enjoy a great reputation compared to some other state institutions. The surveyors are satisfied with the determination, courtesy and kindness of the police. Most pollers notice preventive police action. Cooperation with the local environment has improved in all areas over the past year. Public research has repeatedly shown that the police are regarded as relatively successful in the enforcement of road traffic rules. Between 2006 and 2007, confidence in the police grew. The satisfaction of people with police work has also increased. All these indicators, in our view, are also a reflection of the good work of Minister Matei. It is also not clear that the only organisation that has carried out preventive and transport training actions has been abolished in this mandate. The truth is that the Agency was virtually abolished by the previous government by a law adopted in 1998, which did not provide the Agency with any funds or other conditions for its establishment and operation. All the tasks carried out by the Council, including personnel and material resources, have been carried over to the Ministry, where work is going well and very intensively, since more than 10,000 actions have been recorded in the field of prevention and transport education from 2004 to 2007. The police have not reduced road traffic control as an important element of road safety in any way. Monitoring is regular, intensive and continuous and does not differ from the work strategy of other European countries, and the fact is that the police cannot prevent all traffic accidents, which are also the result of increasing traffic and vehicles. It is unusual to note that the internal security situation has recently deteriorated. For our country is one of the safest countries in Europe and the world, following the 2006 European Social Research Security Assessment. The facts show that the claims about the mass departure of police workers are also unrealistic. As the number of uniformed police officers increased from 6,024 to 6,377 by the end of 2007. Fluctuation is not as alarming as it is presented in the interpolation. But it's pretty normal. Because there were only 0.85% of police officers in 2007. That's 55 cops from about 6,500 cops. And among criminals, only 1.6%. While there is also a great interest in work in the field of economic crime, 200 candidates applied for the internal and public competition in Ljubljana and 273 in Cyprus. One of the untruths is that the police are in a spasm, as recorded in the interpretation. If that were the case, there would not be a decline in the number of legal disputes which occurred in 2005 197 in 2006 138, but only 57 in 2007. It still rejects allegations of poor human relations, bullying, irregular working status and so on. We all know that they are a very legal and controversial indicator of the orderliness of relations between employers and workers. However, in the case of transfers to the police, it is the normal exercise of the powers vested in the Director-General of the Police in the areas of governance, organisation, implementation, supervision and action and staffing. This is not about any negative cadre selection, but only about positive selection according to the ability and effectiveness of the individual, the service, the department and the police as a whole. For all of this, he is the first and most responsible Director-General of the Police. The Minister in this area has no powers. We argue that there is no erosion of the system and no dissatisfaction with the system. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that, thanks to Mr Matthew, we also have a well-organised, trained and effective police force. This ensures that the right of an individual to security and dignity and to protect an individual in acts that cause danger, feelings of danger and excitement are realized. We also believe that both the minister and the police leadership are aware of some of the shortcomings and weaknesses that they are trying to reduce and eliminate. In Europe, the Minister, Mr Mate, is known as the Minister, who is recognised as an outstanding leader of nine Schengen candidates. This is how the European Commissioner for Justice, Freedom and Security, Mr Franco Frattini assessed him. And he added that in the Schengen enlargement, Slovenian Minister Mate and Slovenian Government played a very important role. To conclude, there are only a few concrete results in which the current work of Minister Matei is still involved. The preparation and adoption of important documents such as the Resolution and Strategy for National Security, the Resolution on the Prevention of Oppressive Crime and other, substantive, procedural and systemic arrangements for international protection in Slovenia, the adoption and guidance for the fulfilment of the requirements for the adoption of the Schengen acquis, the comprehensive regulation of public and private security in public and private areas, the resolution of the multiannual backlogs for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, in 2004 was 7,876 in three years, with the new 16.127 cases still pending, the increase of EU administration services and the elimination of administrative barriers to citizens, the introduction of a biometric passport, which included Slovenia among countries with top identification documents. All projects related to municipal editors are carried out in an extremely constructive manner with all interested parties, the removal of car stickers, the establishment and renovation of registers, not to mention further. In our Group of Members, we appreciate the work of Minister Dragutin Mate, because we are convinced that he is investing in his work all the time, skills and knowledge that our country would be a secure, legal and friendly society, for the coexistence of all citizens and citizens, so that order and peace can become the good of everyday work and life. The claims in the interpretation, according to our parliamentary group, fall below the standards of fair, truthful and correct interpretation. Nor can such claims be a guarantee of cultural and fair political dialogue on the work and responsibility of Minister Dragutin Mate. The dictionary used in this interpretation in its form and content points to extreme intolerance and intolerance is always a bad counselor. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Interpellations on the Work and Responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, will not support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you, too. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Ambassador Dar Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister and co-workers. We have not actively participated in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats in the preparation and submission of an intervention against the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Matej. That's why there were several reasons. Among other things, it was clear that the interpretation of the interpretation of the work of the Minister of the Interior would take place already during the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In the Group of Social Democrats, we did not want to give any reason for the subsequent likely findings by the government and the ruling coalition that, during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we actively and deliberately made it difficult or burdened the normal activity of the Government and the Minister of the Interior at home, and thus, at least indirectly, damaged the success of the Slovenian Presidency in the European Union. However, it is clear that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union cannot be an excuse for any major failure or even for specific violations of the laws or for the omission of the conduct to be exercised by each minister in accordance with legal powers. The internal affairs sector is particularly sensitive and demanding, as it is here that they are constantly confronted and intertwined on the one hand to ensure and protect democracy, the rule of law and human rights and, on the other hand, the repressive authority of the State or its authorities. In particular in the area of security, prevention and detection of criminal offences and their perpetrators, this applies. It is precisely because we are aware of how important it is in the area of internal affairs all the time and without exception to worry about the enforcement of high standards of respect for the rule of law and human rights, and because we have been very critical of the work of the Minister for Home Affairs since the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and have also launched, on our own initiative, the possible mechanisms for implementing the supervisory role of Parliament between the Ministry and the Minister for Home Affairs, that we will support today's interpretation. So far, we have consistently pointed out the inadequate actions of the Minister of the Interior and have demanded that his subjective and objective responsibility be established in individual cases, which have seriously upset the public and put into question the Minister's competence and credibility. So far, we have warned and consistently criticised Minister Mate as he has deceived the public in extremely serious cases, such as the Plut case, the Strojan, Lipa and Global case. In all of these cases, it has also been the abandonment of binding or legally envisaged measures. In the case of the Roma family, it was also a disproportionate intervention by the police into the privacy of individuals, a violation of the constitutional right to freedom of movement and justice referred to in Article 8 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. With regard to the Global case, let me mention only the exceptional political behaviour of the Minister, who first proposed such a amendment to the Private Protection Act, which would eliminate the legal basis for the temporary withdrawal of the licence to a private security company and later, when this amendment was not adopted, accused the opposition of being guilty of not having had a legal basis for the temporary withdrawal of the licence due to the rejection of this novel. Such instigation and deception is not only political, it is repugnant, it is a great untruth, it is unworthy of a credible minister. While we are aware of the complexity of keeping the register of electoral rights of citizens and establishing an electoral directory and shared powers in this area, we attach great importance to the perceptions of interpretation, as we are aware that the establishment of the basic conditions for the implementation of democratic legitimate and fair elections is of paramount importance for every democratic country. And to the Minister here, we also see the carefree treatment that has threatened the confidence of citizens, so that the election of the President of the Republic will result without any shadow of doubt. In particular, I would like to point out that in the PS SD we are particularly dissatisfied with the way in which the Ministry of the Interior, under Minister Matei, seeks to propose specific legislative initiatives. In other words, any law or legal proposal that comes from this department into the legislative procedure seeks to revive the area of freedom of citizens and citizens and to introduce disproportionate repression. Also on reasoned and well-intentioned warnings by the opposition that individual proposals are moving across the acceptability line from the point of view of the protection of human beings, whether they go beyond that limit, the Minister was, as a rule, not and is not prepared to respond adequately. With an argument of power or coalition power in Parliament, the Minister has consistently and excessively rejected these initiatives and warnings or counter-proposals that we have tabled in the form of amendments. In individual cases, not all of us, if this were justified, have taken the initiative of the opposition Members to the Constitutional Court to assess compliance with the Constitution and, as a rule, the Constitutional Court has given us the right. This is certainly a bad card for a minister who, despite, for example, warnings from the profession, the Legislative Legal Service of the National Assembly and many Members of Parliament insisted stubbornly on his decisions. Apparently, the Minister has been working to have a direct impact on the operational work of the police all along. First of all, he did this in practice, remember the Plut, Strojanov and others, and later he tried to obtain an appropriate legal basis for such conduct by amending the law, and he also succeeded in covering it and in part in doing so. This must be acknowledged, but of course with the help of a number of coalitions. Therefore, we fear that it is precisely those, especially those who come from the police ranks, who warn that the level of security of citizens and citizens and the investigation of serious crimes are diminishing that we are not talking about the preventive role of the police at all. Citizens warn us that the police's response to reports of crime or direct threat is getting worse. On some police administrations, police officers change to 12 hours, in the nighttime hours, it often happens that one police officer is on patrol alone, making him disproportionately more exposed and, of course, significantly less motivated. In January this year alone, 70 police officers have left the police, some are indeed eligible for retirement, but there is no adequate number of new police officers. There are also other indicators that warn us that there are many things wrong in the police ranks because of inadequate and illegal actual subordination. By the way, on the basis of which the rules were replaced overnight, Mr Slak, Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration. Why rules were not respected to take up a position where the legal basis for such a way of replacing or acquiring powers was the same. The Minister publicly expressed his responsibility and responsibility for the functioning of the police days ago, of course when he wanted to justify his direct involvement in the operational actions of the police. Today, in response to the interpolation, this responsibility is shaken, or he boasts about where the police were successful, but there is no talk about it in the interpolation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the main emphasis and indications in the interpretation. We are less satisfied with the answers to the interpolation, whether they are flat and without arguments, or whether it is a blurring of the essence by giving details that no one has asked for. However, the fact is that these answers also include the distinctive property of the Minister, and that is arrogance. Well, the argument is arrogance and arrogance is an argument. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you have carefully read the Minister's response to the interpretation, you have certainly understood the main message. There is nothing wrong with the department run by Minister Mate. The Ministry and the Minister have not committed any of the apparent errors of the law or the suspension of the obligation to act. More. We must thank Minister Mate for living in a democratic, legal and safe country where the highest standards and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed. We did not have Plut, Lipa and Global cases, nor did some family of Slovenian citizens send them to leave their home unwittingly and settle in a transitional home where the police illegally pursued and monitored them and intervened in their privacy and family life, including by focusing on the secret collection of information about them. Isn't that where road safety is more alarming every day? The minister says that only in Norway citizens feel safer and are not afraid to walk the streets of their city at night. Clearly, what we read through black chronicles is not true or is not happening to us. And since all of this is not an additional preventive measure necessary. Surely the Minister can also attribute certain achievements and good moves, as this is perfectly normal and expected, but we are Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats particularly sensitive when it comes to undisputed violations of human rights and when the executive authority is indisputably responsible for these violations. For us, this is a major criterion on which we weigh whether we support this interpretation today or not. So we'll back her up. This is also how we want to contribute to strengthening the awareness that respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law must be without the call of our society, and that is what we are trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Comrade Jožef Školč will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the LDS Club sent out those necessary three signatures so that colleagues could really file this interpretation. As I said before, of course, we regret in some way that there was no power to include the Minister's denial and delaying the resolution of the problem deleted. I have said before that this is a topic that some in the European Parliament take as a priority in the Slovenian Presidency. We do not want to talk about this in this House. Of course, the minister claims that this is not a problem and that someone invented it. Of course, it drags back in time before his engagement at the Ministry, but that's another story. The second point that we regret at the LDS is that this interpretation has unfortunately not been joined by more opposition Members for calculating reasons. It is my personal regret, in particular, that there are no signatures of Social Democrats, which are often and generally always, I will say active when it comes to issues of legality when it comes to issues of respect for human rights and so on. They're not here, and that says a lot. I will say no to the commitments that I can make, I will say, past the term of office that he receives in the elections to the National Assembly, that is to say the commitment to some non-aggression pacts, not just the presidency for anyone who takes such problems as central problems, cannot be an excuse not to sign them. Accounting, I will say, also colleague Jelinčič and others, points me to the fact that things in Slovenia will not improve. It doesn't matter if someone has such or different motives. WHEN great injustices are done, and when the wicked cry out to heaven, it is unacceptable, simply stated, to look away and not deal with them. This, after all, also diminishes not only the reputation of the opposition, which must and is called upon for these things, but also of parliament. But to return to the Minister and to the answers and to those eyes that can be spoken of. The Minister here today has talked a lot, mostly about things we don't even read to him. I approve of that, too. Interpellation is once again an opportunity to show up so bad and those who defend themselves to try to divert attention elsewhere. None of these points, I would think, would make sense in this introduction. He was talking about solved cases. So, by the way, he said that the police were effective and that they got back Jaguar and Bentley once these days. Congratulations. However, he did not say how it could have happened that on 14.10.2005, almost a new passenger car, including Bentley, disappeared from the well-protected garage of the Nova Gorica police administration. He did not say when it was a few days later, this was on Friday, on Tuesday, how could it have happened that they took 350 hemp seeds from the police warehouse of the police administration Celje. At the time, it was said that these cases were being stolen from police premises more, but he didn't say anything about it today. Of course, the situation is similar to what we call erosion of security culture and confidence in the system. As far as we are concerned with this very important issues of the fight against corruption, and as you know, this is also a criterion for accession to the OECD and, as you know, everywhere in the world, they count that it is one of the great or potential hotspots, that it is always financial and other power emanating from power and is therefore always expected to exist institutions that are also independent of current authorities. The minister once again boasted that three customs officers had recently been attacked. Congratulations on that, too, and on every little fish. But we asked him here today, not all those obvious things about the work of his colleagues or colleagues, his colleagues. Let's say it was a matter of these investments and health procurements, and the issue of my habit, I will say to my great friend and to Mr Ruple's eternal minister, who will not leave the opportunity for his fellow citizens to go beyond the rules. That's not what he said. If you praise your colleagues and the Minister points to great achievements, it would be fair for him to say what he was asked to say. By the way, the government has obviously done a lot with this independent anti-corruption body. This is where she gets all the credit. She also engaged a part of the Members of the National Assembly. But if I understood their efforts, their efforts were central to the abolition of this independent institution for the persecution of corruption and the expulsion of President Drag Kos, who is obviously a great thorn in his heel. If so much energy were devoted to other problems, such as the abandonment of Mr Kos, there would be a number of problems, in my opinion, even a solution. The minister, with our eyewitnesses, is doing what he says is past the beam. He said, "There were no violations concerning the elections. No mistakes." See if I can repeat certain numbers that have already been written and that we have obtained from the Ministry and substantiate them with other numbers known to the Ministry and even obtained after them from the Republic Election Commission. After that change of law, which the Minister spoke about and was indeed employed in the National Assembly, and the Ministry of Official Affairs had to register in this directory all those who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, it showed so much enthusiasm that there were 73,521 voters and voters on this list. But the law dictates, and I will not repeat this, that it is necessary to have a set of data to sign on the list. Any reasonable lawyer considers that if not all of this information is that it is not possible to list someone. Thus, of these 73,521 showed that 22,492 do not have complete data or even know which country they live in. Of course, the minister defends that a directory has been drawn up and that anyone can go and look at it and make comments. We don't know how many people came to look at this, and I can't imagine anyone looking at the correctness of the directory like that. I used to tell you those numbers about how this was going to go down so that they could even send electoral material. But look, even when the electoral material was sent, when we wrote the interpellation, we didn't have this data, but now we have it, it turns out that the largest number of these materials never came back, not in such a form or in a different form. so that all this manoeuvre has not contributed to our common desire for a substantial number of people to respond to the election as president or later to the National Assembly, as this register was otherwise arranged. If we subtract from the fact that the vast majority did not respond at all, this has still happened, and it is certainly possible to report to the Ministry and their list of gross negligence, that in fact 6,105 of them came back to the electoral commission for the reason that the address is unknown, 3128 that the address is incomplete, 2475 that someone has moved, 166 have not taken over, 280 have died, 859 have not been marked by the reason for the return. It's almost 10,000, I guess. If it's not a big deal of negligence, then I'm asking you what's the big deal, Mr. Secretary. Or what's a lot of negligence. I won't read how many of them responded to the elections and how many went empty. Further, you are here in this congregation, and I would not open it if I hadn't lied to you, so there are no other more decent words, saying that you had nothing to do with moving the Strojan family. In fact, this interpolation is after the construction, you will see, this family and the procedures that were behind it came, more to open these questions to show how ineffective you acted in the case of Plut. So the Strojan family is an illustration of what colleague Ljublješek says, of a double morale. What you didn't do with Pluto and said that it couldn't be done because there were no rules, you did with Strojan a few months later and claimed that there were regulations for that. This is what interpolation is talking about, and it's not so much going on in this qualification that everything was wrong there. But there was a lot wrong there, too. If we go to look at what's left over and what's wrong with our places has been brought to the world, not because of the opposition, but because of the events themselves, and because of the actions of the minister and other authorities, it was about that they were in Ambrus on 28.10. This is in Ivančna Gorica, where you have your mayor without a proper assessment and have decided that a certain family who until then lived in this area will move away and will no longer return to Ambrus and Ivančno Gorica. You've reached into police work, you've taken over the command, there's footage with the megaphone. This has caused an appropriate escalation of violence, and there has been an accident with this country, which has been further damaged and so on. And you there, as you say, to appease your passion, promised that this family would permanently move out of this area, at the same time ordered the police chiefs to act against the protestors by special police units and that there had been an already mentioned injury to a villager from the Children's Village. Of course, any such thing, where someone loses control of his power also has a pharsic disunity, and so later it happened that you, on behalf of the police that you ran at the time, apologized to the country, and you solved Branko Slak for fighting the police with the country. It's more than all documented, and I'll read it to you myself if you've forgotten that and if you want to forget what you said at the time. Let me just find this in these papers, please, and then I'll quote you roughly. At the time, you promised to leave this family overnight to pack, after you took your breath you later told them that you were promising them to return to Ambrus never again. That's the whole story. I'm gonna say he's got an epilogue meeting? for people living in those places; what you are saying and telling others is certainly just an additional illustration that certain things did not work before. We don't argue about that. In this matter, I am not putting myself on the side of the countrymen or on the side of those who have just been taken to Postojna, but I am challenging your conduct. I don't think you had the authority to do that. I believe that you have, therefore, exposed Slovenia to great shame and, finally, forced this great assembly to remain silent about it. When I say that, I realize that this is no pre-election or pre-election act. Social Democrats colleagues are recalculated enough to know that this is not worth talking about. Otherwise, we'd be talking about it. I've been in politics long enough to know that people don't like these things getting warm. But if we do not speak them, others will speak them instead of us, and this is bad for this house, it is bad for the regulations governing common life in Slovenia, it is bad for human rights, and of course it does not say anything, as has been said, about thousands of people employed in the police, but about you overstepping the powers and exposing the police to the eyes of politicisation. Finally, there are other videos showing the same people and the prime minister of the government who promised that things would change if you were in power. Is there a connection between a meeting before the government years ago and promises in Ambrus? I wouldn't speculate, but that assumption is, of course, hanging in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. However, colleague Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Minister. All right, everybody, welcome! The Ministry's field of action is very wide and the difficulty of managing the area is also appropriate. Internal security is ensured primarily by preventive measures and less by the repressive action of the security authorities. If you read in detail the magnetogram of hearing on 29 November 2004 before the competent parliamentary committee, Mr Dragutin Mate, then the candidate for minister, said that if elected, he would take over one of the more difficult and responsible departments, which was constantly in the eyes of the public, politics and the media. And he was right. The state of the estate of Minister Mate was not exactly jealous, and we can say that in the good three years there have been significant changes that put Slovenia at a very high level of security. Amendments to the legislation have also been introduced that have modernised the system and addressed a number of shortcomings. As one of the first members of the European Union, we have introduced biometric passports and a register of citizens has been established within the EU administration, and the register of permanent population and other records has been renewed. The statistics we have seen on the screens here show that the problems that have arisen and accumulated in some previous period have been resolved and resolved in this mandate. In the last month, the most up-to-date achievement is the elimination of the border and entry into the Schengen area. In Slovenia, a process of evaluation of our country's readiness to enter the area took place in 2005. It took a lot of effort and effort to get a positive assessment in all seven areas, which was a condition for entering the system. With the Schengen Information System itself, Since one for all we have received significantly more information on security in other countries. As an illustration, in the first months of application of the renewed Schengen Information System, police officers carried out more than 3 million and a half checks, of which there were about 1,600 hits, either for stolen vehicles or for persons with a restraining order. These amendments were prepared at the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of Minister Dragutin Mate and can be properly commended by the Government to the domestic and foreign public. If I use an old human proverb figuratively, I can say that it is difficult to be a prophet in a home, and that is certainly what we are witnessing today. Of course, it's not the first time, probably not the last time. The interpretation submitted by fellow Members of the Council with the LDS' original assistants shall be read to the Minister for Law, Constitution and Under-Law Violations, thereby resulting in irreparable and difficult remedial consequences. It is the introduction of intentional turbulence during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, so it is an attempt to destabilise and attempt to mine the Slovenian historical project. Interpellation focuses on six areas of non-action or excessive intervention by the minister. From this perspective, interpellation is globally contradictory to itself. Let me just give you one example. In the area of private protection, the poor exercise of control over private security companies is expected to indirectly result in the tragic death of young people. On the other hand, the police are supposed to be overly involved in the privacy of individuals with excessive control. When it's too much and when it's too little to answer from interpolation. Obviously, the measuring vats are not always the same. Therefore, objective responsibility is also very difficult to discern, let alone subjective. With ongoing monitoring of the most critical events and a carefully read response from the Minister, I can say with even greater certainty that the Minister has always acted professionally, in accordance with legislation, the Constitution and international conventions, and appropriate situations. Most of the readings in the text of the Zares Group fly to events related to the relevant arrangements and measures in the field of private protection. We have held a very extensive and in-depth debate in the National Assembly on several occasions, and I expect a similar debate to take place today. We have also discussed at meetings, at least two working bodies, the appropriateness of the measures against the Strojan family and the regularity of the procedures in the case of Silva Plut. The Minister has already responded to these and also to the allegations of irregularities in the presidential elections as part of the questions sent at the meetings of the National Assembly. As a member of the Transport Committee, I would focus mainly on transport safety. Writers 5.b point claim that traffic safety in the Republic of Slovenia has long been unacceptable and unsatisfactory and would even agree with them here. The claim that the police are not particularly successful over security control and that the Minister for Home Affairs is responsible for this cannot be confirmed. Police have significantly increased the number of warnings from 2004 to 2007. In 2004, 13,252. In 2005, 79,843. In 2006, 129,894. In the first nine months of 2007 91,546. The total number of repressive measures was after years: in 2004, 596,113. In 2005, 338,771. In 2006, 330.695 and in the first nine months of 2007, 271,926. Special emphasis was placed on the worst violations most frequently caused by the worst traffic accidents. Speed, 16% increase in number of detected violations. Alcohol, 27% increase in the number of certain alcoholization tests and factors affecting the consequences of accidents, the use of a helmet and a safety belt. More than 65% of all measures have been taken as a result of these violations. I would also like to point out that the road traffic control police did not in any way reduce it. Surveillance is regular, intense and constant. The aim of most measures is for drivers to change their behaviour in traffic, attitude towards participants and rules. It is known that more than 90% of accidents are responsible, unfortunately, for the human factor. Other organisations involved in the training and training of transport participants can also help police to improve safety. I do not agree with the claim made today by this speaker that the finance minister is saving on the transport sector, which has an impact on poorer traffic safety. You need to look at the numbers and operate on the numbers. Every year we face a record increase in financial resources right on the transport sector and a record ambitious programme to build and rebuild highways in Slovenia. The aim of the interpolation is certainly a broader debate on the work and responsibility of the individual minister. In the case of Minister Matei of the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this purpose is used to repeat the already heard and cheap collection of political points, as the debate by the opposition will not bring exactly any constructive proposal. The involvement of the debate on interpretation during the Presidency of Slovenia in the European Union is probably not a coincidence, and the responsibility for the opinion of the foreign public will have to, at least in this medium, be taken over by the opposition or the proposers. We regret, however, that there is no business possibility that his European colleagues could speak at today's meeting about his fellow Minister, Matthew. It may not be known to the Slovenian public, but it would be good for Minister Mate to be highly respected and respected among his colleagues in the European Union and, above all, one of the most deserving to see Slovenia's entry into the European Union by entering the Schengen area in December. In Novi Slovenija, we expected the name of Minister Matej will be particularly exposed at the central ceremony at the entry of Slovenia into the European Union in Škofija, with the presence of the European Commission summit. It wasn't like that. We're sorry! Someone just forgot about him. However, on the Minister's face, I have seen the satisfaction of a successful project, which would certainly not have been if there had been no Matei's stubborn and reasoned insistence in the tough European negotiations. With the torment written and signed interpellation of Minister Matei is now an exclusive case of intolerance and it is known that we do not support such matters in Novi Slovenija. This is an empty shot! May I, my fellow Members and colleagues, be allowed to convey to Minister Mate the gratitude of the Hotijans and many other Prekmurks from this city, when he answered the international incident in Hotiza in autumn 2006 not only by word but also by decisive action. That's how it's done! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Given that there are five hours of active work behind us and behind the minister and that there are 10 hours before us, do I ask the minister or oppose the proposal to take a break for half an hour? It's a deal. So we're adjourning. We'll continue at 2400 hours and 30 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u26	We continue with the earlier adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving into the framework of the general debate of MEPs and Members on interpretation. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u27	Dear President, esteemed colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister Dragutin Mate. Now, after the introductory debates and after, as one of the colleagues said, the abuse of the Institute of Interpellation, you would say that all sorts were spoken, except for those points where the Zares Group of Members, co-signatures from the Liberal Democracy, interpelled the Minister of the Interior. It will be true that more has been said, but most of the other matters we have just heard from Minister Matthew. Maybe it's the same. Interpellation is an act that we talk to one about how something is wrong and the other about how something is right. It would be better if, however, we met in our discussions on common points, it was at the point of traffic safety, private security, the excess of powers in the Strojan case, the ballots, the Pluto, or we would say something about crime in that part of Slovenia, it was said in Janča and the surrounding area and as far as national security is concerned. These are also our eyewitnesses to repeat them briefly. Because I think a lot of things have faded since 9:00 P.M. I would like to admit something good to the Minister, but the interpretation is not intended after all, it is intended to say what is wrong, and if I stop already with Shenghen, who, as a project, as the continuation of the activity of the State of Slovenia from previous mandates has succeeded. This shows at least at this point, although it is likely that, even after such a short period of time, it is premature to talk about these matters. That's from 35 days, as long as this thing lasts. But about Shengen, there was a lot going on before. We have all heard Minister Matthew well that his energy, the people, will devote all available forces to this project and, of course, this has caused a lot of internal security in the country. If we look at how many police officers are on the road, then we could say that a lot of things have moved out of the field to prepare for Shengen. Now that this preparatory work is over, it's just that the police have returned to the roads in the last days, I have to say. I hope this is, of course, one of the successes of this interpolation. Of course, we will measure them not only after the Minister has resigned or not, but especially after something has changed. And as many as the police have said in the last 10 days as they have on the roads, whether it's noon or night, so many have been gone for so long. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, if the interpellation has helped. During this time, Schengen also changed the Police Act, reducing standards for education and training for police officers at the green border. That's what the minister even admits, or he just says that we're not just going to talk about these hard words. In your response to the interpolation, those who have not looked at it will find this on page 31. However, it is true that the trainings, that it also writes that the training was not reduced on the basis of the Minister's order, but that it is the implementation of some other provisions, with a more exclamation e. But it is interesting that this novel was, after all, proposed by the Minister himself a little earlier, but it is about these matters. The problems are also compensatory measures, which, again, as I say after the boxes or after the crumbs, take away some personal freedom, personal space of freedom. It is precisely because of this that some things I stress that we would actually see what has happened in these years, which the Ministry of the Interior is running, and, of course, this is how it serves this government, which, of course, has decided to set up a strong, somehow all-controlling country that will decide everything. I don't know now, of course, if this was all at the Ministry of the Interior, but given what Mr Dragutin Mate told us earlier in his introduction, of course, it was very strong cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, which, of course, is also cramping these premises. So I have to say, of course, these things worry me a lot more than not having stickers or anything like that anymore. And while we're talking about stickers, they're not just praiseworthy, because then it happened that those who checked out their cars were destroyed by license plates. The license plate is not cheaper than the stickers, but at the same time last spring, last spring it was that the raid on the new license plates was such that it was not possible for them to do so in the KIG where they made it and made it. So something is happening, although there is a good solution, so it looks like and then, of course, there are a lot of such consequences that were not foreseen, or were so "the coal letter" overlooked at the time. Let us go to those famous coat of arms, of which we have also spoken many things. Mr Mate says the coat of arms remained at the wishes of the citizens. That's right. I also advocate the variety of Slovenian license plates. I like them. I think it's a shame to lose them. But now it's going back to some way that it will soon become an argument of what the ministry has put in place. It is said that a car, or engine, or anything registered anywhere in Slovenia and that any coat of arms on the board can be argued that we do not need them. Because, of course, you can't tell where someone's from anymore. People like that, you'll say, they'll hide their identity and I don't know what else to do. These are the kind of things that are unthinkable, unconscionable and that have been placed on the other side of the scale as good as they appear, not always as good. I wouldn't be talking about the electoral justice record right now because it's not that long since you've heard a lot about it. Of course, it's clear. If a person cannot give or give all the information necessary to register as an electoral beneficiary, then he should not be there. This turned out, of course, to all the data you've heard, the numbers you've heard. But if things don't work out for you, you have to make a difference. You like to change things. If not alone, of course, in cooperation with Mr Šturm, who is also full of happy ideas about how to make life miserable for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You've been bragging about a number of recent cases. Of course, I still wonder how many of these cases were really complicated and how rich they are. The fact that the police are looking for 'Janki' around the methadone centres is very easy to work and there are very many cases solved and they can certainly lift your statistics. If we've mentioned Pluto and this case before, then I'll ask you this. At the time of the search for Pluto and a little earlier, there were, of course, some other criminal acts in the Janč area. One murder, too. One horrible murder of Lenka Jelnikar. Is this settled? Probably not. If you are putting everything on the scale, and if you allow us to commend me, then say something that you have not saved, and you have not even given up, because it was an older lady. [[...]] We know how this works. Then the thing that I'm very interested in is also very much tied to events in Ambrus. In response to the interpolation and, of course, in public opinion, you also state that once we say how little the minister gets involved in the work of the police, and secondly, that we tell you that you are getting too involved. That's right, sometimes too little, sometimes too much. You know this is also a matter of your judgment, and the fact that you have taken an executive command, the right to an executive command in Ambrus is unlikely to be allowed by any law. Too much damage, you know. That's the way it is in life! And if someone gets too caught up in something, he can make a mistake, and that was certainly a mistake that went on and on and maybe didn't even end. There's also a word about police politicization. I guess the statistical office doesn't see it now, but what people say, we have to take into account. A type of change in the police force, I don't know if they're just talking about being unprofessional themselves before, but now they're all professional people coming to the top. It's probably something else. The police have experienced a number of changes at this time, and when you say that according to research the Institute is for some applications, it is said for those who can be used and used well, the situation in the police is good, unfortunately I do not believe that. I'm a man who lives on the ground a lot, and I hear a lot of things, and as long as, of course, the ones who keep moaning and the eternal nuggets, and when the eternal quarlants complain, it's no big deal, but when the stories start to start telling their problems to people who are usually loyal, who have a high threshold of tolerance, then things start to worry me more. By the way, I've been asking your officers if they're studying something, and so on and so forth, and I have to say that everyone is studying how to leave the police as soon as possible. They're even enrolled in schools like this to make it possible for them. Let's ask each other a few more questions. Traffic safety in Slovenia. Taking all the parameters into account, in recent years it has not changed that I believe and attach to you, because the number of vehicles is increasing because the number of kilometres transported due to daily migration is also increasing, and the number of traffic accidents and traffic deaths is not growing as much as the other one. But it doesn't matter. The attitude towards this penal policy, which you have already tested and tested in 2005, is that if we increase the penalties, the number of traffic accidents, accidents will decrease and the number of dead will decrease. This experiment didn't work. While you are saying there is a reason that in 2005 the spring was a beautiful weather and that people were running away or something like that, but surely traffic is not just a function of time, but a lot of other things. This penal policy has largely failed. But it didn't work out for something else. Because of this period and, of course, two years later, there were not actually enough policemen on the road. I'm not saying they weren't there at all, but they weren't often enough. And of course, if a person who regularly commits crimes knows that there is very little chance of being caught in this, then he does them even more often and risks in some way. The essence of this penal policy is that a person needs to know that there is a lot of chance that he will be caught doing this and that the punishment is quickly removed, so that they are the cause and result together. But you still remain in the fact that penalties should be increased and a discount should be maintained. As if we were not working to make traffic safer, to make people feel safer, but rather to make sure that some of the budget deficits are filled. You've also boasted of inspection controls that make a lot of them. I know about two or three because people tell me this, but it's mostly about midnight break-ins at places where people are looking for smoke. So, the worst breakers, the worst crooks are smokers. That's what happened now. If we had done this before, we wouldn't have to do this new weird marriage. But you didn't. It is, therefore, an agreed interdepartmental policy on how to question certain laws and, in fact, destroy others or replace them with sharper ones. Because of all of this, of course, what you are doing, either alone or in connection with Mr Sturm or with Bajuk, I do not know who you are negotiating with, of course, because the consequences or the consequences of this or that of course are also affecting others, because of all of this I will gladly support the interpretation. By the way, I would remind you that in October, at one of the meetings of the Internal Policy Committee, you said that someone responsible for something should ask themselves, so you don't have to talk too much about what good you've done and, of course, then I also asked you to offer your resignation. You said you'd think about it, and I'd like to hear about it. It's been a pretty decent time since then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the next debater, I shall only inform the Minister that he may be included in the debate at any time. However, Member Milan M. Squeakl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Citizens and citizens, Members, Members and Mr Minister. Today's debate on the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior is primarily about whether we have a good security situation in Slovenia or not. Whether we have a higher level of security in Slovenia since 2004 in this mandate, or whether the Ministry of the Interior, together with the police and other authorities, provides us with this security. If we had it, parents of teenagers wouldn't meet at the front door of the joints where we pick up the kids at night. I hear from some of the people in this hall all the time who's gonna pick someone up. If we had a good security situation, we wouldn't have advised the children and the other evening walk across Tivoli and the students in the dormitory haven't been crossing Tivoli for a long time. They would not advise their neighbors to walk in darker neighborhoods, in Brileje, in Dravlje, and elsewhere. It wouldn't have happened to Plut, Lipa, Global. If they had a good security situation for the company that hired Global, they wouldn't be closing it now. And because all of these things have happened and because the situation is not good, the situation is worse than it was four years ago, you are the Minister's objectively responsible. In addition, some things have happened to you, where, of course, your basic education has overwhelmed you. But imagine, citizens and citizens, whoever could have done this. How can it be in the country of law, in Slovenia, that the neighbours lift up and move you, and when you expect the police to come and protect you - no, this police will move you. More. The Minister of the Interior, as the first on the ground, takes the megaphone into his hand and I believe that you are like a graduate defender - as it says on your website - you may even have been able to do this - take the megaphone into your hands and order it. And then it happens that when the police are here, the police will move you, who will promise the neighbors or the minister that you won't go back there. And that's what happens. We have a very strange situation in Slovenia, when, in fact, the year after the whole country, some municipalities are dealing with where they can live in peace with their neighbors after the new family. And these neighbours are not even neighbors anymore, but they are, so to speak, formerly, or even formally, objects of the Ministry of Defence or the Slovenian Army. This reminds us of that story during World War II, when the Japanese were evicted to protect against other citizens in the United States. I'm talking about the Japanese Americans who were evicted. That is why today's debate, the discussion on whether such a policy is acceptable in a country that is a member of the European Union. Finally, I will also ask the Minister something about this issue, because yesterday or a few days ago, in the European Parliament, they spoke precisely about this issue of discrimination. For me, interpellation is a tool of the opposition and I fully support it as such. The excuses, some of the Members of the coalition's readings here, that we cannot have interpretation during the presidency, are simply attracted to hair. It is good that there is also, after the presidential elections, Mr Janez Janša himself said that, in any event, there is no more agreement on - in saying - co-operation during the Presidency and that he does not intend to inform us of everything he does. In fact, I must say that I quite like the fact that John Janša does not inform us of the design of priorities and of how he accepts instructions from individual countries. Therefore, to say here that it is not right for the European Union, at the time of the Presidency, to speak properly about something which is, of course, the responsibility of the Minister, is not an argument. I had my first thought when it came to the interpretation that it would be most correct for the Minister of the Interior to conclude the Schengen project there somewhere on December 22nd and then withdraw. That would probably be the best. Of course, the minister didn't make that decision. I understand his reasons, too. But today, Minister, in your almost 90-minute performance, you didn't convince me. You say you're doing well, that everything is fine with the police, but this feeling of people who are afraid that they don't go through Tivola anymore in a student village, that we're picking up kids in front of bars at night, and that we're very careful in what kind of taxis we're either sending home or looking for, just proves that's not the case. But let me give you two more cases. They're very current. Tomorrow we will talk about the situation in the area of corruption or rather anti-corruption. Today, newspapers say that police are still a narrow throat in the fight against corruption. And since, in recent years, as either president and member of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, I have repeatedly dealt with potential corruption and there have been many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, This is also confirmed by the fact that in 2007 595 applications were sent to the anti-corruption commission, which is clearly assessed among people as one of the few independent authorities, which is a total of as many in one year as it was in two and a half years ago. And I don't remember the police acting as an organ in the system. In order to take action, for example, several times has been mentioned today, from this Mr Domna Zavrl to take action on the fact that it is clear that all the people who have been working in the Ministry of Health have left the Ministry of Finance for the purpose of protecting the evidence of one of these arrests. I don't remember that. Of course, when we forwarded all the documents to the competent authorities on the Public Finance Supervisory Board, it has been about this for more than six months, not the spirit or the hearing. But look what happened last Friday afternoon at a police station like this. In the Slovenian public, you can read one document on the website about some conversations that took place on Christmas Eve. The document is not of a confidential nature, at least it does not say that it is of a confidential nature. I'm reading it, and I hope I'm not in violation of what's called a special secret. But the rules, I can read this in the paper today, that on Friday afternoon eight people, including employees from the Ministry of the Interior, entered the diplomatic office and seized his computer. I hope you'll analyze this computer faster than you analyzed the inspector's computer, which alerted you to an unusual business at a pediatric clinic. And it's not, I can't get rid of the feeling if I don't mention any other cases, that the police work politically here, of course. These two cases, inactivity in anti-corruption actions, in matters that we have also pointed out at the meetings of the National Assembly. In April 2007, I asked the two ministers if they are convinced that there is nothing left for them at the Ministry of Health in investments that go into tens of millions of euros and, of course, no police activity. And for the end of the so-called European themes Saturday, February 2nd, European Bulletin 9593. Area: Justice and Home Affairs. On 31 January, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on reducing discrimination against Roma. And I am interested, Mr President-in-Office of the Justice Committee and, let's say, domestic affairs, or the area of the world, I will immediately, I apologize, the European Council along with some others. What will you do during your presidency regarding this resolution? Are you going to follow this, this assessment that it is unacceptable, that so-called, I now use the term that I translate in nicknames, because it is not a proper expression that, of course, anti-gypsy by extremist groups is unacceptable. Because if that were the case, someone in this National Assembly would be reacting today when someone was using expressions that, of course, do not apply to the Roma. And that's why, of course, I'm interested in how you're going to work on this point, you as the world's chairman, when you've been working for over a year now as a graduate defense attorney. The Minister of the Interior must be the Minister of the Interior and not the first police officer. For this reason, the interpretation of work and responsibility, which gives you evidence of violations under the laws listed here, is justified for me and I will vote in favour of your resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good afternoon to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members. The interpretation of the interpretation of Minister Matei takes place at the right time. Today is a deserted Tuesday. Let go when all kinds of fools are allowed. Today we can play a little joke, and apparently one of them really made a joke. Annie - that's what I mean, really. All points mentioned in the interpolation could be discussed. I think it would be useful to discuss all of these topics mentioned in the interpretation. However, not at the point where we are talking about interpretation against the Minister of the Interior. I don't think all the topics mentioned have much to do with our internal minister. I must say that at the beginning of this point today in the National Assembly, I was most surprised by my colleague Školč, when he began, there are even worse things to deal with. And I said to myself, oh, we're lucky, but these LDS representatives are really kind to the coalition or to Minister Matei, because they've mentioned only those small, insignificant things, and they've left these important big things behind, but I don't know when we're going to be dealing with them, and maybe there's going to be some kind of interpolation soon. Otherwise, I don't know which minister, maybe again against Minister Mate. If I were to do at least one of these points, which you specify and report in the interpretation, I would first start with a point of very poor traffic safety. This is one very, I will say a very important topic, which we have already discussed in the National Assembly, which would be good to talk about in the National Assembly, but I think there is no need to talk about this today when we talk about interpretation, is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. We are all well aware, or at least most, I am sure we are well aware of the state of road safety, road safety, but personally for such a situation in no way can I blame our Minister. Is the minister responsible? If I look too much into the glass and I sit behind the wheel, I drive home and cause an accident. Is the minister responsible if I have a heavy leg and I'm silent on the gas to go there 180, 200 on the highway, commit a misdemeanor, do an accident? I wonder if the Minister would know that he won't have an interpolation today if he experienced the first time I got a payment order to pack it in an envelope and send it to Minister Matthew because he's responsible. Please! If I continue, the minister is obviously also responsible for the death of young people and young people, says Lipa and Global. I think this matter should not be considered a joke, but this matter must be taken very seriously, because it is not right for these young people to be exploited and used for the purposes of discrediting a person, to impose such heavy responsibilities on him as he wants to impose on them here. I don't think it's fair and it's wrong to do that and do that. It was also said earlier in the presentation of the proposed colleague Školč as if the minister was responsible for the contract concluded by the owner of Lipa with this security service. Is the Minister really responsible for all these transactions that security companies conclude with different institutions, what they are, how this protection is done? Not that we understand very well, just one thing, just one thing, you're one very skilled and capable of turning things around. If I'm going to the problem of registering electoral law, please, we've adopted a law in the National Assembly that ordered the minister to do what he had to do. Is it the minister's fault that so many and so many citizens or Slovenians who live abroad have no address if these addresses come from administrative units, from our embassy and so on? Therefore, it is of no real importance to call for the responsibility of the Minister. It's really a lot of contradictions in this interpretation. We are talking once about how the Minister is overly involved in the work of the authorities in the police force, and what should be done in this police station right away in the second place. I think I see only one wrong world here. A colleague of mine earlier asked what the security situation was like for the Slovenians, and I have a feeling that he was just trying to scare our people. But, dear Slovenes and Slovenians, there's no need to be afraid. The situation in Slovenia is no worse than it was three years ago and a few months ago when another government ruled when we had another interior minister. Otherwise, I have no statistics and I cannot say whether there have been any fewer killings during this period than before or more, or whether there have been more accidents than there were with the fatal outcome. We know that they're increasing, and they're shrinking again, and they're increasing again, and so on and so forth. He spoke of neighborly relations as neighbors rose up, evicted the neighbor, and looked at the fraction of the injustice that had been committed here. But any person who really wonders why the Slovenians rose up, where people live in tolerance, in good neighbourly relations there is no reason for neighbors to rise up against one neighbor. But we need to look for the real reason. I could still list a bunch of these issues, but the contradictions that appear in the interpretation, but I don't think it makes sense at this point, it will make sense when we really talk about these particular problems and problems that are listed, but not at the interpretation. I will only conclude by saying that I am very pleased to have such an internal minister in Slovenia, I hope to say that this is one of the better ministers in this Slovenian government. I hope to say that he is working very well, that he is working very well, and I wish him these few months before the new parliamentary elections and until the new Government very much, very success in his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, some questions need to be answered immediately, in order that the Slovenian citizens watching this broadcast will not get a completely different picture on television and, above all, they will not think that everything is true, what someone has said. First, I'm going to touch the event at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The police weren't at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this office that you described, they didn't take the computer, they're not investigating this computer, they're not looking at it. The media are writing here, of course I can't influence this and I don't want to influence it, but I can tell you with all the responsibility, especially to the public, because I doubt that I will convince the person who said that; the police were not in this office and were involved in this event that you described. This question, of course, must be addressed to someone else and, of course, it is very difficult for me personally to imagine how you can capture a computer that is in one way or another a country's own. He owns a ministry anyway, not an individual who works in an authority. We all know what we can do on computers, what the rules in this regard are, and it is expressly forbidden to do certain things on business computers. Last but not least, Mr Member, you were the Secretary of State, and you know that it is forbidden on official computers to do private things. This is forbidden, at least in the state administration. However, clearly these things must be said, it must also be made clear that it is not appropriate, at least it does not seem appropriate for me to offend any college, university, that someone is attacking in the National Assembly the independence of research carried out by universities. Whatever the name of any university, how old it is and of course the quality of the work of the university is measured by the quality of the work it does. And if a university was later established, it does not mean that it has no university status and that their research is not credible. One year before that, the same research was done by another university. The results were very, very similar. The differences were minimal in results and, of course, from year to year the results of citizens' satisfaction are fluctuating. And I would also like to respond to the fact that it is no longer safe to go through Tivoli to the dormitory. I studied in 1983, and even then we did not walk through, at night, through the park in a student village. So it is very difficult to make such claims. Of course, parents are very concerned about their children and a lot of us parents, including myself, of course, I use certain matters, and each parent decides when to go looking for a specific event. Last but not least, we also have a marriage where underage children are not allowed to be alone in public after midnight or in places where alcohol and certain other matters are flowing. In some ways, parents are forced to act differently. And that's probably what we're doing. Such insights, which in some ways are just so flatly given, are of course very difficult to accept and it is very unfair, not to me, to the police, to lay down for them what they have done where and what they have done and what they have seized. As you know, in this particular case, the police have received a complaint against an unknown perpetrator. It acts as it does in all other cases. The case is directed by the District Attorney's Office and acts only what is, of course, done by this direction. It is therefore necessary to make this very clear and loud. Perhaps he would have touched, though, given that another Member spoke about statistics, about transport safety which was not available. I've got it in front of me. From 2003 to 2004, the number of deaths on Slovenian roads rose by 32 dead and no one said that it was a dramatic deterioration of the situation on Slovenian roads, that terrible things were happening, that there was no police anywhere to go. In short, the number of deaths has increased greatly. Of course, compared to the increase we witnessed from 2006 to 2007, when such deaths occurred more than from 2006 to 2007, 31. This was a more catastrophic situation in 2004 if I use the words used by Members. And these are the facts. It's statistics that can't be clouded. And, of course, the words that some Members use to influence statistics. I don't even have access to computers that run statistics. I've never looked at this computer before. I can't use this computer program because I don't have the authority to do this. The statistics are kept at every police station and are being merged and cannot be repaired. Every correction is visible years ago. It's impossible to run statistics. It is impossible to produce statistics on crimes investigated and it is not at all a matter for the police to deal with wealth and to show it as a success. In the area of economic crime, partly related to corruption, because there is some connection, I can say that it has risen tremendously - you all know very well in this National Assembly, that I cannot talk about specific matters, that I must not mention specific cases where the police have filed criminal charges. You know exactly what you're saying, and all the time, you're asking me to give you cases so that you can justly tell me that I'm getting involved in police work and I'm getting information that I can't. But I can tell you globally how it is. Last year, the material damage that the police investigated and the cases for which they filed criminal charges in the economic field related to corruption - partly to corruption, not to the full - was raised to the detriment of the country to EUR 140 million, which is a few times the increase a few years ago, so that it works here. There is a lot going on, and you know exactly how I do not have an insight into operational work, that I cannot comment on any operational matter, and I also have no insight into it, which is happening today and on which the police are working. I just don't have the authority to do that, and it's just that I don't have them. And you ask all the time about the things that are happening today, at this point or yesterday, and you know you can't get an answer to that, and even if you ask the police, you won't get that answer. Even if you ask these questions on the committees, you will not get this answer because the powers are clearly divided and you know that, and it is true that those who watch this transfer know that this is the case, because otherwise they will get the feeling that I should start listing all these cases here and I cannot. Unfortunately, that's right. Those are the rules, and that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr Grill or Mr Squeakl has a replica. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u35	I think it's quite clear that the Minister responded to some of the readings I've presented to him, but given what he said, I suppose, so if Mr Marjan Šetinc called 113 on Friday and said "police, come and protect me, because eight security guards, the security and internal service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wants to do a bad job" to protect him, that's what you're saying. No, that's what you say, Mr. Secretary. It's only my question to you - whether you would protect him the way you protected the family that had to move out. This is the question, and I asked you, what about the five hundred and so many anti-corruption acts that the police are so narrow-minded about, and you're saying that the district attorney is directing it all together. Minister, that's just the facts. How did you feel in 1983 in Tivoli or not - I tell you that now there are certain crimes in Tivoli that were not there in those days and when we were students, we walked across Tivoli, even at two in the morning, and now they are no longer walking.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister or other representatives of the government. When I was myself aware of the introduction of this interpretation to Interior Minister Dragontin Mate, I was truly negatively surprised and did not believe that in Slovenia it was possible to try such untruths, lies can be said, lies, to discredit not only Mr Matei as a citizen, but as a minister representing the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that there are four or three interpolation signatories present today or now, however, shows that they are not interested in all of this because they know that what they have said is not true is true. Such ill-advised accusations as were proposed in this interpretation remind me of the breathtaking processes that were just over 60 years ago. There, too, 37 people were completely unjustifiably accused and convicted without evidence. Even today, we are witnessing only to the Minister's being denied the truths, the lies and all that with the aim of discrediting him, the government being unaware that they are not aware that our country of Slovenia is the most maligned country to which we should all be prouder than any other. Besides, we haven't witnessed our country's mudslides for the first time. We know that the petition was also an attempt to malign the state. There have been cases like this. Just in the last days, we are witnessing that the document from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was published in the Dnevnik Journal, and today we can see that the Belgrade-based newspaper Politika publishes a number of documents that do not belong to the public, which means that interests are obviously directed here also by the opposition, so that our country is muddy abroad. Apparently, the party Zares, although they are Members of the former LDS, have put them under some disguise of orange color, but in fact they are the same people and, of course, also LDS, to try to mislead our people, to try to represent things differently than they are, and this in particular with the aim of presenting things differently in public than they are. However, like any other thing, interpellation is useful in this work, so that we can now listen to a number of arguments, evidence that clearly proves that all allegations are false, that they are fictional, but at the same time, both the Minister and the other discussers can show or present a number of achievements that were made during Mr Matei's ministry. We have already heard his many achievements today, but it seems right for us to point out again at least two more on the part of those who have praised them, and this is by the European Union or by the distinguished people of the European Union. It is clear here that the European Commissioner, Mr Franc Fratini, has publicly expressed his gratitude to the Government and, in particular, to Mr Mate, that, with his assistance, the Schengen border project has been successful in the new Member States, thanks, or thanks in particular, to his efforts and also his sacrifices in this project. Similarly, the Director-General of the European Commission for Justice acknowledged or publicly stated that Slovenia or the Ministry of the Interior had made an important system for the integration of refugees, and this is a project followed by others. We know that we are also the first European country or country of the European Union to have an electronic register or home registry. At the same time, it is a surprise, probably, not only for me, but also for those who know these allegations, that interpellationists once tell the minister or the police not to act, as the law dictates, and on the other hand, we listen to the evidence that he is actually abusing or abusing his powers. But here it is necessary to decide whether the police are acting in accordance with their legal regulations and competences or not. All the evidence, all the arguments show that the police have always acted, at least under the guidance of Mr Matei, in accordance with the legislation, in accordance with the powers he, of course, also has. I believe that every single one of us, if we need the police when we need her safety, would want the police to have unlimited powers to protect us at that moment. In another case, when we don't want the police dealing with us, we'd like him to have his hands tied. However, the law is perfectly clear and the police are professional all the time and exercise their powers also in accordance with their legislation. The fact that the allegations made by the interpellation candidates are fabricated and do not show the actual situation also shows the statement in the article of the Ombudsman's Part, when it made it quite clear with regard to the Strojans for whom we are hearing today. The police there carried out selective individual measures that were not discriminatory. The Strojan police did not stop on the basis of ethnicity, as was presented in public, but as they are now trying to expose it in interpretation, but in order to prevent riots. The Strojans do not complain about the presence of the police. The only thing that bothers them is that individual family members have a somewhat limited movement. We know why the police had to do that. In order to prevent, perhaps, unpredictable events, which could also be tragic and here also the thanks of Minister Matthew, that he personally participated in the calming of the situation and probably find it difficult to meet or face the situation that a minister has done in person, which can also go to a great deal of gratitude and, of course, honor. And what seems particularly incomprehensible to me is that the interpellation's proponents find that the police have not acted in Greece. That she didn't use those measures that she could. It means they're urging the police to act against their own people. Yes, please. Do we want to have a repeat event when we were seventeen years ago when the so-called Yugoslav Human Army with tanks acted on its people? I don't want that kind of police, and I'm proud of our police, and I believe that many citizens and citizens as well. Of course, I will vote against the proposal of the interpellers to get rid of Minister Mate. More. I'll vote for him again. And if it were necessary, I would also sign my signature for his work, for his achievements. I think we can all be proud of this and, of course, also thank him for his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We are truly very different in this National Assembly. If one of the predecessors has considered today's debate to be a suitable day, on an empty day, it seems personal to me that it is quite the opposite. That the discussion on such an important topic as the work of the Interior Minister is not the best thing to say is that it is very empty and that no one will want to convince us that it is also a contribution to the liberated Slovenia. I personally did not sign this interpolation because I would like to malign the Minister. I didn't sign the interpolation because I wanted to mud all over the government, even Slovenia. I did not sign in order to reduce the reputation of Mr Minister at the moment that he had introduced the Schengen so successfully. These are the teasings you keep sending us every so long from the coalition benches. That's not true. I gave my signature to this interpretation because I am aware that everything is not so arranged, that everything is not as correct as the Minister has shown, and that it is not particularly as black white as we want to show that the predecessor says that everything that is written is fictional and unrealistic and exalts the Minister in heaven. Which is also the right thing to do. For all the achievements, our Group leader, Mr Lahovnik, congratulated Mr Minister on his own explanation for the opinion of the Group. Even more congratulations and thanks are due to all the operatives on the ground. That is exactly what we are aware of: that too few experts, too few police officers, are doing such a responsible job. That is why I have signed with others to interpolate, because this tool is in the hands of the opposition, that it has the opportunity to draw attention to the things that we are assessing according to the information we have, according to the information we are getting, that they are not good and, above all, that we want them to expose themselves in the interview and that they will be resolved further. Nothing means replacing one man at the top of the Ministry unless the things we're alerting in this interpretation change. Therefore, it is not right for us to talk in a way that makes us ever more distant from problems and that we advocate who is against, who is against them. The fundamental issues that remain on the ground, and if I know them from direct conversation with citizens, citizens, both from talking to my fellow mayors, and from talking to police officers on the ground, I cannot help but point them out and, above all, want them to change. But it always changes if things change in a different direction at the top or in the head. I believe in statistics. I also know how statistics are prepared. I also know that this is the biggest lie and that things are showing up anyway. Therefore, it is not necessary, nor is it appropriate, for one or the other statistics to assess the good or bad work of police officers. I believe that if they are less on the ground, there are fewer cases, then there are fewer unexplored cases and that this can be manipulated very quickly and shown as a great success. What I want to stress is that ordinary citizens ask themselves where the police are. That this is, I do not speak for our municipality, I speak from interviews with fellow mayors from various parts of Slovenia. And that's a fact. And not take this, Mr Minister, as a bad thing, but as a help, that probably also from the opposition will always be support for additional resources and, above all, not only for equipment but especially for people. You yourself said 150 new engines in the introduction. That's nice, it could be 200, but the question is, will these new engines be enough to drive new vehicles? The situation that you have also shown shows that there has been a large decline in employment and, above all, that there is no attack on this profession. This is from the simple fact that, whether you want to hear it or not, this profession is not a respected profession at the moment. It's not your responsibility, but it's the responsibility of a wider society. Some Members, who today, while speaking to the government in a popular manner, have been hitting on police officers after being incompetent, have contributed to the fact that the reputation in the field is not great. Mostly that's what it is. Cops don't look in the streets, not in school playgrounds, not in kindergartens, not in front of schools. We see and we know where the drug dealers meet. We know where the other groups are meeting. There are no cops. Also because you are heavily armed after a variety of records, statistics, and that it is the average citizen's assessment, that unfortunately the police have turned into bureaucrats, office workers, and that they are not enough on the ground. This is to track - I say - in different environments. But what's interesting is that you can talk to one cop as soon as there's a company of three, every cop shuts up and doesn't talk anymore. When you talk to the mayors one by one, the mayors of coalition parties also hear similar thoughts. That it's necessary to change here, that it's not good here. As soon as they're in society, there's no more criticism. And that's what's wrong with not talking about problems. Because it's marked immediately to be muddled here by the police to mud the minister, so he'll finally be muddling immediately to Slovenia. I believe, or at least I can say in my own name, I have great respect for all professions, every man, even the police. I will never agree to the label that, because we are discussing this interpretation, I want to embarrass the work of a minister who - I said earlier - has done a lot of good in this mandate and that this is what is needed. I've identified myself in an area that ordinary people feel the most. To feel the police's reaction in the event of accidents, burglaries, events. That people, if they notice anything, leave what is absolutely necessary to inform the police. Because because of the procedure prescribed, everyone feels like an accused who is written back to the second knee for all the "gold" and for all the data. And that this is what needs to be done and that it is obvious that these operatives are too few. I would be happy if the contribution of today's debate would at least help to make this different. I also believe that when we talk about how there are no cops, it does not mean for Ljubljana. Indeed, at this time of the presidency, there are almost every intersection of two, when necessary and nothing wrong. It is also right that security is ensured for those who come to Slovenia. However, about this security today, we can boast that we are right behind Norway to make people feel safe. However, will they feel so safe in three and a half years with such police work, with such a shortage of police personnel, under the leadership of the police? I'm not sure. That is why we want these measures to be taken in time. That the atmosphere in the police is different than it should be that there is no more collective spirit, that there are mutual plots, that there are mutual accusations, that there is customerism. These are things that exist, but for reasons that have been said several times, as well as customer coverage, it is more difficult or difficult to expose individuals. However, they are listed to improve. I'm sure this interpellation is good because things are improving further, that it was never meant to just change. If my colleague Grill went this far to the winding-up process. Last but not least, just about nine years ago, interpellation was also against the interior minister. And that's what the opposition's job is to do is interpellation. I am confident today that, in view of the statements made and the views of the members of the groups, the Minister does not need to be afraid to replace them, but that these comments, these obvious facts, which are and will be mentioned, will probably be taken into account and will then be taken into account in his work and work on the ground in order to take them more into account. And when we talk about statistics, it's most inappropriate when we talk about security and consider it human life. I don't think that's the kind of information that we should use to assess good work at all, because we know how many different circumstances can affect whether a fatal accident occurs or not. And that this is not a responsibility when we are talking about transport security only by the Minister of the Interior, that it is not just the police, that it has been said earlier that this is cooperation with the Transport Ministry and with everything else. However, if the people, the ones who drive a lot, are reminded that control is too little, despite the fact that the sign is 60 kilometers per hour of restrictions through the Trojan tunnels when there is rain. I'm sure there's no driver who could drive 60 kilometers through the tunnel. The truck would have pushed him at least eighty miles of speed out. These are matters where we are alerting or cautioning that controls are insufficient and probably the decision for the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council was not a good decision. Because in the case of little Janezk, he starts training in kindergarten, in the family, in that he is being raised. With old John, there's no other way. It's not time for sticks anymore. It's time for great punishment and control. So - I am sure this cooperation will not only help if the highway cross is built, but that it is necessary to increase this control and increase this cooperation. That is why I think that, regardless of the outcome, this interpretation - invested - will help us to talk about this and that you too will be Mr Minister with your services and subordinates - I am sure - also in the well-being of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr President and Mr Minister, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! And let's go from Žalec to Sevnica, where it's about 50 kilometers, an hour's drive, if you're driving by traffic regulations, and you're definitely meeting at least one police patrol in the middle. Definitely. Six months before the elections - whether this is the right time to invest in interpolation or not, let us decide for ourselves. I think that, on this mission of the Presidency of the European Union, with these agreements, agreements and other things, this is an indisputable moment for me to do these things at a time when we have many other missions, and today fifteen hours for which this kind of debate is intended in the National Assembly, however. It's the right thing to do. We know that it is time before the elections to have such and similar discussions. We will have to get used to this, that the opposition will do everything in its power to do what everything in this country does not apply. Last but not least, today we have the Minister of the Interior and his team, what is not good in this country. The opposition's perceptions to the minister are, in my opinion - here in today's debate, I have heard the Minister, the opposition's MPs in my deep conviction - unfounded. Unsubstantiation in these divergent arguments, which, in fact, cannot be sustained. Last but not least, the purpose of this debate today is through the media of populism to criticise anything that is not in force in the police, which is not in force in these bodies. I think that all of this, of course - maybe this opinion when a colleague told me before me that we were different. Thank God we're different in the National Assembly, that we don't all feel the same way and that we don't come from the same environment, because then it wouldn't be Parliament anymore. However, the cases of these disasters, which have already been mentioned many times today - to blame the minister for being responsible for these disasters with such and different cases that have occurred, is my view that this is an inadmissibility. We all regret it. We all know this is the worst thing that's ever happened to us. We've read a lot about this, we've written a lot. Even in their own way, everyone feels some responsibility, how and how they would do everything in the future to prevent such cases from happening in Slovenia, wherever this is happening. As far as public order and peace are concerned, my view of this - as mayor - as a Member of Parliament, I feel that the police where I know it better are doing their mission well, that there is no problem with the minister, that there is no problem with the current policy, the current authority and that he carries out his mission as he does before the previous governments, former ministers. Last but not least, it's a profession, it's professionalism. They expect the minister to do what he has already said today, how he can improve their material conditions as much as possible. That's for sure. Among them, he pays. Normal. It's every cop's job to want a good car and good equipment and a proper salary for his mission. This has also probably been said that this government has also ensured that material conditions are better and that the police can do their job more effectively. Of course, it is always possible for the police to make mistakes like everyone else, to make mistakes, and so on. This is also happening elsewhere in Europe. We're not gonna find anything new. And that cops are just people doing their job. One more successful and one less successful. However, when I heard a discussion earlier about parents driving their children, I don't know, to a party, to a restaurant, to a discotheque and come back for them, yes, because this is also the mission of parenting to do so. I'm doing it myself. It's okay if I take my kid to some party, some event, some birthday party, and come get him. Isn't that normal? That's what our parents did more or less, and that's what we do. The responsible parent will also provide transportation to and from his child. But it's nothing wrong. That now the police will take care of this child ride or anyone else, I don't know how you imagine it. As far as traffic safety is concerned, or the police's lack of attention on the road. I don't know where you're driving, what you're doing. But it must be hard to say to myself that the Minister is now guilty of poor traffic safety on Slovenian roads. I don't know if it's anybody else's fault. When we talked about the Road Safety Act, which is also in the process of discussing what all the culprits or culprits are for such a poor situation, the number of road accidents, fatalities and similar things. We have all found that the speed, alcohol and, above all, the unculture of our driving on Slovenian roads is the first place, and that is why it is difficult to blame the minister if some drink it, if some drive too fast, do not take into account traffic signals and so on. I think he is here and that, however, we will probably want to interfere with the fact that this traffic safety is much greater than it is with a few higher penalties. But of course, this greater security on Slovenian roads is not only the minister's fault, but we blame all the road users, from that pedestrian to drivers, where the culture is quite the way it is, tolerance, too fast driving, even sometimes more alcohol at the wheel and things like that. To that end, we will all be able to contribute in one way or another so that this outcome will be better, that there will be fewer fatalities and not just the police. The police are just one of those things that can help here, but they can't solve all of our bad statistics that are once, sometimes after all, some and others. One time they're good, and one time they're as good a lie as we think they are. This is how some want to interpret the subject of statistics. I think today in his long conversation, Minister Mate has made his observations quite clear and his views on the work he is doing, how and how he is doing. I think we've listened to these arguments and prepared this explanation, and then we'd take these insights as something good. Police, when should the Minister interfere and when should he stay out of it? You should get involved once, but you shouldn't. It's hard for me to understand when you have to, when you don't. This is now a matter from case to case. In that case, yes. Not in that. How's that? I think it's the Police Act. There's something very clear in there. I don't think the minister's mission is going to get involved in those things that the competent authority in the police is responsible for. And I think it was funny. I think that in all these years the police have been more or less successful in carrying out their mission, regardless of who was in the government and who was the minister. I think it was more or less. Is this more political or less political now? As a matter of fact! Now, of course, some people just don't like the fact that this minister and this government are running this police force. Obviously, that will never suit you, which is clear. And, of course, also the information that has been given about the fine violations of alcotests and these things. This is being done, I will say, more or less successfully and that, of course, we are not all the same as the police on the road. Many citizens tell me, I am going from Munich to Sevnica. But when I get to Sevnica, the police are on the road, and before that, they're nowhere. So it's too much. Others say it's too small. When exactly is the police on the road? That's not the answer! The ones who stop them just check them out anyway, they don't like it. But some of you want to be stopped more than once. Now, what good is this, just for all citizens, it will never be. There's no measure of how long the police will be on the road and how long they won't be there. That, I think everyone will be able to answer for themselves how and what. By Europe, I am sure that there are very few police on the road under such a different condition. So that's what many colleagues tell me. But when you get to Posavia, you'll definitely get a patrol before you step through your door. I'm not gonna judge what's better, what's worse. But I'm sure it'll never be right for everyone. As far as what's been mentioned is concerned, he's humping. I think it's a very positive move by the minister because you did it. We have identified ourselves with humps, landscapes such or different. And we took that for our own. I just congratulate you here on continuing this and leaving the Slovenians in the regions of those coat of arms that are close to them, which, of course, are home to them and which they have taken for themselves. I think your move was very positive and real. About the Strojans, I think it was about half an hour today that our fellow Member said quite a lot about what wasn't. Of course, I think that fellow Member Jelinčič has said a lot about the Roma. I hope that there will never be a Minister of the Interior, because then the Roma would be really badly written in this society that we are in today. I think he was a little too rough on these people, anyway. Obviously today's debate will draw some conclusions to this debate. We know that this effect of the Interpol proposalr is certainly not going to achieve its objective, because I also think that there is no way. However, in this way - as I said before - he is picking up some points that he wants to elect the voters in this term by the end of the elections. But I don't think today's electoral payoff is going to be very positive for these interpellators. Finally, all of this, because we are in this time period, is how and how to achieve the goal, as well as by interpeeling the Minister, who has done well, according to many estimates, the work of Schengen. That's what he's all about. I think this story is positive, it's been well processed. High quality expertise. And also there special attention given, I'll say, by the number of police officers, if you want, equipment and so on. Here I think we have done our job very well without worry, and here I think the recognition of even the most sceptics is in place. Now, probably, maybe some jealousy towards the internal police, I don't know who might be less concerned, like the colleagues of the police who are on the Schengen border. But this is already a matter of second debate. Of course, I would kind of like to say that, as an MP to me, as a mayor, as a citizen, it is particularly important that the police carry out their mission and that I feel safe in this country. That I feel safe, and I also share my opinion with the many citizens I meet, and that they feel that they are going anywhere without a problem, doing anything within the framework of, of course, permitted. Therefore, it is not a fear that any danger in this society would be posed and that the police would not do their job in the event of such and other such a mission. I'm saying the environment I know better. There could be something different in the Grief. There could be something else out there. But that's already the problem with other environments. The police were before this government. For this government too, she will carry out her mission. One minister, another minister. Ministers are changing more or less. The police, the profession and this job will remain. Let us hope that we will live safely in this beautiful country for many years. Of course, I have no reason not to support the Minister after today's vote. It is good that this mandate has been successfully completed in this Government. And I wish you a pleasant desert. Today, a fellow Member has also allowed himself to wear a mask. Members are also part of this society. And eventually, when this debate is over, perhaps there will be something else to be desired about deserting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Minister of the Interior, honourable Members, honourable Members! Today we have an interpretation of the work and responsibility of Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior. But in fact, the extent to which this interpretation applies is also evident from how many Members are sitting today by the proposer in this National Assembly. Practically nothing. Which means that this interpellation is probably more intended for some pre-election points than a serious argumentated debate. And that, of course, raises the question of what was actually wrong with Minister Dragutin Mate, so that we can discuss him for 16 hours today. Well, a little less. I believe that this debate itself will be welcome in the part where it will constructively talk about perhaps the works that have been done a little bit worse. But above all, it will be able to show what good and important things the Minister has done for citizens and citizens in the field of internal policy. What I also think is crucial about this interpolation is, above all, the question of the timing of this interpolation. It is interesting that the minister deserved this interpretation just at a time when it is extremely difficult, even for the best, to be in two places at the same time. For example, in Brussels or Slovenia. And that is, given that the readings we read through the interpolation or events associated with these findings took place at least one year ago. That's right, really. And more, of course, the reals and the LDS who filed this interpolation could have thought of it before they had done so. So, this, I can't say anything but that it's definitely a cheap political score. Above all, in order to show otherwise the management of the ministry during the time Slovenia plays as important a role as the Presidency of the European Union. This also shows how much it means to some of the opposition to achieve the goal, regardless of the means we use to do so. Of course, I must point out here that I have no objection to the opposition's role as an opposition. So he's pointing out the government's mistakes. To also perform the government's control function. This is certainly the main task of the opposition. However, it is very wrong to take advantage of this task and use it only to realize certain narrow political interests and not to warn or to improve a situation in the country through warning. Such acts are so much more transparent if they arise about eight months before the elections. However, this is not the end of the line. I believe the party certainly needs publicity if it wants to work in the next term. But such unreasonable moves, including inefficient ones, are reflected in several areas and not only in this debate aimed at the work and responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs. Such a, I will say, a destructive attitude towards everything that is not under the wing of the left and to everything that this Government has done, even though it is good for all of us, shows only how opposition policy in Slovenia does not accomplish the purpose for which it is actually present in social life. Therefore, as a Member, I am seriously asking myself, when is the end of thinking in a way that, without any thought, you can malign, for example, the state of Slovenia abroad in the international public, as well as through various levers, the opposition is doing in this mandate? For example, I am talking about press petitions, the transmission of documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Dnevnik, the attack by Minister Rupl when it advocates Slovenian interests in front of Croatians. If not the other, it means, in the first place, at least some non-state-making action, which, in my opinion, suggests that some people do not know the boundaries when it comes to maligning this government. However, to continue to focus on the mere interpretation - one of the perceptions of the interviewers on whom I want to focus myself - is that point that speaks of the conduct of the State authorities in relation to the Strojan family or events in Ambrus. We all know these events. We've been watching them. We've spent a lot of time doing this. The media themselves, a lot of hours of debate in this regard, also took place on the Committee on Internal Affairs, where in the end all we could find was that the ministry or the minister who is currently at, say, the sad bench was acting in a desire to calm the situation. So, in a desire to solve the problem. Minister Mate was already at the meeting - I think this was about two years ago - it is obvious that he acted irresponsiblely and beyond the powers he has in the Ambrus case. Big words were also used to say that the rule of law was over. At that time, among other things, the former Ombudsman, who is always assisting when it is necessary to protect the interests of the left political field, also came forward. Of course, he did not come forward when, for example, the country was muddled across various mechanisms abroad. However, in my view, this issue, the Roma issue, needs to be returned to the starting point. It is at a time when both the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats were in power. The Ambrus problem did not arise today and not since yesterday, but such events, which have been very upsetting for the population, have not occurred for the first time, even those who live in this environment and, of course, have the right to warn about the events. It's got to be admitted. It must also be acknowledged that the previous government has not done enough in this area or almost practically nothing to settle the situation in order to calm the situation both on the Roma side and on the local side. Today, when this government apparently solves what has occurred years and years ago, it is evident that it is acting irresponsiblely to act improperly in a way that does not comply with the rule of law. And then you really wonder what's wrong with us. True, the one who works is also sinning. And whoever works or has had time to do this for the duration of his term does not, and then points to another, is, in my opinion, very insurmountable. And, of course, there is further evidence that this minister, who you are interpreting today, is trying to solve the situation but not to set them on fire, as was the case with the opposition during the events in Ambrus and in relation to the Strojan family. More than obvious is the statement of the Ambrus and its surroundings regarding the Strojan family. I know that colleague Jelinčič has devoted a considerable amount of time to this topic in his presentation. I know he's also read, I don't think he's completely part of this statement, but I'd like to read again the part that seems crucial to me. In particular: "The resolution of the conflict situation has not been easy or easy. In their long-term search for an appropriate solution, the police and Minister Dragutin Mate did everything they could to ensure that the conflict did not escalate into an even worse aggravation of the situation. As time went by, we gained our trust back. That's why we thank Minister Dragutin Matthew. At the time of resolving the situation, we have received many unjustified perceptions of intolerance and discrimination against the Roma. With this petition, we would like to reject the evidence and point out that all these years, despite the impossible conditions, we have been tolerant and that we want both the Strojan family and our equal and decent lives." In short, this is the statement of Ambrušanov as well as the nationals of Krka and Zagradac. There are also some fewer than a thousand signatures on 40 pages. These people finally got the feeling that someone was solving their problems and that they didn’t care and that this authority was serious about their problems and problems. And a thousand signatures, of course, I don't think it's a joke, but a serious support to the minister you're interpreting today. What I also think is important is that I absolutely support the work of Minister Dragutin Mate. I think he's doing it well, properly, fairly and responsibly. I am convinced that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are also aware of all the positive effects of his work. Not to mention that he has eliminated several of the car stickers that the previous government has actually worn on us. Someone made a lot of money on that account, too. Well, we did it, and thank God that's true. Of course, this minister has done a lot of positive things. That's all there is to it. At the outset, Ambassador Bebler said in her position that laws restrict human freedom and introduce a repressive state in this mandate. It's a really hard charge to know what repressive organs did in times past. And if we know that the predecessors of the SD were in power at the time. That's the party Mrs. Bebler is sitting in today. Those are hard words. Of course, it will be necessary to decide what you really want. If the police do, then you say it's repression and we're going to the police state. If the police do not act or act differently than you have imagined, then this government acts irresponsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you. The applicants have been contacted. Which one of you is gonna talk? No, just one. You can apply again after the next speaker. Mr. Gantar, please. Or Mr. Skolch, do you want it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would only explain a few details to these rather clumsy interpretations by Mrs Irgle. She wonders how the interpolation actually falls at this exact time. Mrs Irgle, I must say that the interpellation was filed two months ago and half ago. You'll have to turn to someone else, why it took so long to get this treatment. It was technically possible for the interpolation to be dealt with before the Presidency was taken over. We then calculated this very accurately if, of course, it was the will to talk about these things quickly and without reservation. But anyway, it doesn't bother us to drag it for two and a half months, because the things that are written have been written down, and today they hold it as tight as they held it. Why it's so late to interpolate - we can talk about it. But if, of course, you want to look back at the writings at the deposit, you will see that the bottom of the barrel has broken out what we say - inefficiency in the things that happened around Global. That's from the 7th of last year. It is said that the interpolation was relatively quickly written and also the things that have been drawn up since before and are older than the date. So, in a month or a month and a half, an interpolation was applied. I will not say that there is much more to be written into this interpretation and that if not here, the Minister will have to answer many more questions for Europe. But that's another story. What is completely inappropriate, but it is expected that you use this legal instrument to curse again after the opposition, you say that we do not know how to behave, that we do not know at what important historical moment we are, that we are, together with journalists, slandering and slandering Slovenia around the world, and, I don't know what else you've said that we don't respect a prominent and highly respected foreign minister who, by the way, whenever he shows up in public and on average it's once a week, makes a scandal that he's being dealt with by all the interested international public. But that's not the subject of this interpolation. Certainly, if anything, it would be good for us to have this interpretation earlier, if not for the sake of Minister Matei, but for the Foreign Minister, who, every week, would give rise to such an instrument if he had the will for him in the National Assembly. Wonder why it's such a long debate. I'm surprised, too. Why did you, the real government party and the coalition, apply for 410 minutes and the interpellationers and the parliamentary groups that support the interpellation for 240 minutes? So, we who could, it's our burden to prove certain signs, and we have twice as much time, and you're wondering why this interpolation is so long. I don't know why you called in time. Please don't move. You've reported a lot of time. And now you're telling us that we want to, I don't know, debate hours and hours. And last but not least about the Ambrushan thanks. I have no doubt that these people are relieved. Because this incriminated family is no longer around them. I've talked about this before. There is no place to talk about the Strojan family, not in a decent way, not in the way that a colleague of the National Party had previously spoken. I don't think that's acceptable at all. But the vice president that you elected enjoys being muddled by members of national minorities. He's straight up enjoying himself. The leadership of the assembly does not respond, and we are already tired of these protests. You've relieved the other vice presidents, and of course you're enjoying it. How is it possible, Mrs. Irgle, that this thank-you came yesterday or the day before yesterday, a year and three months after these events? Is this a coincidence? Is it possibly related to the fact that in fact they had to thank and support a minister who himself is not sure whether he was doing the right thing? But all those who deal with issues of legality, issues of human rights protection, feel that this was a horrendous mistake regardless of the divide.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When I listened attentively to some members of the coalition parties, let me take the lead in apologizing as an opposition Member that I am even alive and even thinking with my head and in this house of democracy, I allow myself to say what I think. So, excuse me at first. As far as interpolation is concerned. Interpellations usually take place before the elections, because it is so and it is not possible. But it is true that the time of authorisation is different. But if memory doesn't fool me, in the 2000-2004 term, at the very end of the term, already in the summer months, just before the elections, we had the interpretation of the then government, submitted by the current largest government party in cooperation with its satellites here in the National Assembly. So it's no big deal. We are now surprised that eight months of interpretation or almost a year before the elections have been put in. When she was two, three months old, that was perfectly normal. If it is, it's normal for both of us. And I think it is. In the course of the debate, I was also disturbed by this on behalf of the Group of Members of one of the interpolation investors. It has also been said that the Social Democrats are calculating and that I am not talking about everything that needs to be said. So I have a feeling that we're all being intertwined today. So says the minister, maybe the government, and the coalition is part of the opposition to the top. But, okay. This is just a matter for the person who thinks that way and speaks that way in this House. When we talk about responsibility, you know, we all know that we know two kinds of responsibility: subjective and objective. Of course, what someone is responsible for in a particular case is a matter of judgment. I heard a speech by the President of the Commission on Internal Policy, Justice. And I think there's something more to be said by the Slovenians and Slovenians: you're no longer as safe as you were in 2003. Okay, that's how some feel. Again, others believe that security, which in the hierarchy of values is very high at this time, and that something more needs to be done. So it's about security. But in doing so, Slovenians and Slovenians, I thought mainly that there was someone else living in Slovenia, not just Slovenia and Slovenia, and that there was a need to take care of everyone's safety. And so also citizens and citizens from this temple of democracy, residents and inhabitants also address. It's just a comment. My offense, of course, to the Minister of Internal Affairs, is to the police, in particular, that I have been warning myself for several years that the number of police is too small. In particular, I've always talked about Velenje Police Station. And every time I spoke here, until my next speech, there was someone else missing from this police station. So one of the cops was less busy there. And then how do we talk about prevention? It is very difficult because there is simply no time for prevention, because it is necessary to act in certain cases. And if people run out, of course that's not possible. Much rather than interpreting today, I would vote that the number of police officers will be appropriate to the need for police to be equipped better than they are now and that they will be satisfied with the salary. This is also true, of course, because this is a condition for quality work and for belonging to this profession when we find that they leave the police species. With regard to wages, it is mainly a matter of indignation that the Minister of the Interior may have been too little - and perhaps the term aggressive is not the right - but a commitment when he was negotiating with the Minister, who is shaping the fate of public servants. It is Dr. Virant who directs this wage policy. And there was probably a town to talk about something different than what was agreed then. The next offense, which is not a matter of interpretation, but of general history and can also be incorporated into this story, is the Law of the Congregation Ministry. In my opinion, it's a rough term again, but it's kind of short-circuited, in which you've worked confidently with the Ministry of the Interior. And we're gonna have problems for a while to make up for our mistakes. I've heard before from the minister that young people under a certain age are no longer going to restaurants alone. And you don't think, Mr. Secretary, that now these young people don't go out of their homes when they can't go to the bars. These young people are now in the parks. They're where there's no lighting. They are where they are exposed to those who know how certain things are done. They used to be in the joints where there was surveillance. I mean, it was bad, but it was bad. Now they're in places where there's no control at all. And some take advantage of this in order to end up with vandalism, the damage that local communities have to undo. So there are a lot of things that are worth solving or at least paying attention to. But, as I said, resentment in this area can be quite something, and of course they also contribute to the fact that, as an opposition Member, I decide whether to support the interpretation or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Gantar made a statement as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I listened with interest to the debate, of course also to Mr Mate's reply. I'll mention a few things later. However, a few sentences on what has been said by fellow Members and Members from the post. First of all, there's this obvious, czech, six months before the elections or eight months before. It is certainly a matter of gathering political points and so on and so forth. However, it should be borne in mind that the mandate of the Minister lasts until the end of the mandate and the responsibilities of Members and Members. And that no one has the right to untie anyone in that he ceases to do his job. And as has already been said today, remember what the opposition did in the previous term. We certainly do not want to be like the opposition of the day. In fact, we want to clearly trigger all those actions, all those instruments of parliamentary control that we believe are justified at a certain point. You're kind of right. It happened to Lipa. It happened to Celje. It's true, maybe we could put up a lot earlier. Maybe we could do something sooner. However, the events surrounding Global have nevertheless decided, together with other things, that this issue should be discussed in a way that interpels ministries. There is no point in saying that there are few MPs in the Chamber from the parties who have given the interpretation. That's when we sat inside, I think, only three. Surely our other fellow Members and Members think that the three of us can do more than well with your arguments. And they're right. So don't be afraid. Even if you were standing here alone, the representation of interpolation wouldn't be any worse than you think. And timing around the European Union. However, the Presidency of the European Union cannot block all internal policies. We cannot, in fact, cease to exist and just preside over the European Union. That's really a cheap excuse for these things. As for Ambrus, I could say one word. Of course, what we have heard today does not fit the truth. It's not true that the previous governments did nothing. I've said it many times. There are documents that are on the websites where you can see exactly what was done and what was abandoned after the new government took place. But I won't talk about it today unless there's a greater need. What's important to know is this. And here each of us has to ask: How would you react if 10, 20, 50 people came to your apartment and demanded that you move out because for some reason they might not like you? I very much believe that people in Ambrus have suffered and so on. That it wasn't easy. But can we actually say simply that, in the absence of the right action of the police, they should move out. We can't let that happen. Whether it's for a family or not. And that is the question that I have asked several times, and we cannot answer this question in the way that the Minister or Government has answered. We can't take that answer. I don't. Now, about the world of prevention. This is where the minister offered an answer. I'm gonna get to the bottom of this. You talk about what you're doing and you're protesting against the end of the world for prevention. You're the one who shut it down in 2004. You shut it down and you took it away and now you're reading this matter to us. Of course, I went to look closely at the order of events. In 2004, the law said that an agreement had been reached in July to reshape the world. The Preventive Council is transforming it into an agency. And also in Article 252 of the Road Safety Act, a transitional provision was introduced in order to enable the world to exist until it becomes an agency. Minister Mate, with the first amendment to Law 12.7.2005, is still leaving the agency and extending the legal basis for the functioning of this Council, which should be redirected or transformed into an agency. And then 28.9.2006 actually by law, it abolishes the agency and divides all its work into the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport. These two ministries are supposed to take over what the world is, what the agency is supposed to be doing, or who is going to be transformed from, this world. He actually shut down the agency. He did not re-establish the basis for the world’s operation and thus shut it down or drown it into a bureaucratic structure. And that's actually an abrogation. This withdrawal actually took place in 2006 when the Minister decided not to transform this world into an agency. In fact, he left the agency and, of course, the world is falling. The second thing I'd like to point out is because this is a very important and most important point to me, it's a global thing. We need to be very precise here. The first thing is, after this tragic event, the minister responded very easily. I couldn't react because the Law on Private Protection had not been passed. If the amendment of the Law on Private Protection had been adopted, it would have had instruments with which it could react and possibly prevent something. Then, of course, he was warned not only by the opposition, but also by the professions and by the private security industry, if I say so, that he did not accept the Inspection Control Regulation. That he received an initiative to control and suspend the license to VIP protection in July. So he was given the initiative to exercise control and, on the basis of supervision, to determine whether there are any possibilities and measures to take the licence to this company, which has already been involved in the death penalty in Celje. The answer is here and very bureaucratic. I'm not gonna read it all. But it actually refers to some legal formulation that it can't do that. It does not, however, summarise the idea that there should in fact be specific additional supervision where it could be determined whether this licence should be withdrawn. As regards the withdrawal of licences and legal decisions. Page 12 of this document. What does it look like? That we actually have here on page 12, where the table for 2007. Do we have anything here? We have that the first legal decision was issued, if I see it right here, 11.9.2007. Second, 2.10.2007. Thus, these decisions were entirely legal before the event in Global. Then, on the next page, it is even clearer because the first legislative decision was issued to the company in May 2007 and in October, it was already six. What's true now, exactly what data they're holding? There are also some inconsistencies. If these decisions were made before this, it was the basis for action in any case. And now, what can we say? The Minister then replied when he issued this decision, however, that he had, of course, issued on the basis of a new or amended law. That's clear to everyone. Even to the opinion that I am not a lawyer, the constitutional prohibition of the principle of retroactivity applies in Slovenia. In particular, where retroactivity covers measures that are worse for a customer or client and therefore could not issue these decisions on the temporary withdrawal of a licence on the basis of a new law, as this is retroactivity. If he betrayed them, he could have issued them only on the basis of the provisions of the old law. This was no longer the case as the future provisions were not regulated here. And today, even though the court has rejected the application for retention of decisions, today it may be that the court, for these formal procedural reasons, will simply repeal these decisions. Because they are based either on retroactivity or on the application of legal articles and provisions which are no longer in force. But still, I think we need to be here, not just trying to gather evidence to show how right we are. I'm also trying, in this we're also different, to try to gather evidence that the Minister is right. The minister has a way of, let's say, assuming he's not wrong. Let us take this as a hypothesis that it is not wrong, for example, to say that under the old law it could not have temporarily withdrawn the licence and that it did not have to adopt the Inspection Control Regulation. Even though he says so, he might still be able to act. If he says he does not need the Inspection Control Regulation, that means that he takes over this Inspection Control Act and could act on it, because he claims that this law has eliminated the need for a regulation or a government Law Service. However, he did not act against him. Even from this letter from Mr Janc, who replied back to the Chamber, there is nothing to say that it is not appropriate to act under this law, under the Inspection Control Act. However, let us assume that he is still right, he could have acted under the Administrative Procedure Act, where Article 144 of the ZUP even says that in such cases it is not necessary to hear the parties that urgent measures are taken if there is a risk to life and health and exist, namely in the case of a target, etc. In short, in this case a temporary licence could be withdrawn even formally. In these cases, however, he did not use it, but he stubbornly argued that this was not possible. Although it is a professional view that, despite the adoption of the Inspection Control Act, a regulation is still needed for a number of reasons that should be regulated by inspection supervision, it is not fully created. In any event, we believe that there has been a serious and unreasonable abandonment of control over a security service or the Private Security Service, which has already demonstrated or infamous activity, and that action in this case should have been taken and that action was likely or reduced the essential possibility that a tragic event would not occur. At the same time, I would like to point out once again what I have warned you - in January 2007, the Inspector exercised control of this service. He found that he also protected people and employees and that he did not have a license to do so. This is the basis for the withdrawal of the licence even for that activity, even physical protection - as stated in the law - and instead the Ministry helped him to obtain another licence without actually resorting to the measures he should be cutting. In short, in this case there is no doubt - I have no doubt - that this service - I do not say for all jobs - is dealt with in gloves. It is particularly important that measures that should be applied and should not be applied against any other agency have been applied. I'm not going to assume why. I will not cite subjective moments in this regard. I merely point out that this is clearly evident from this document, from these events, and that this should not be the case at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! Today's interpolation is not merely against the Minister of the Interior. If you are correct, the intervention is also against the Minister of Justice and also against the Minister of Transport. And it's not fair. Minister Christmas was a great minister for me, but he was suspended. Mr Slak was a great man for me, too, and he was suspended. Today's interpolation, once again, is not fair. For me personally, Minister Mate is a good minister. Of course he's got mistakes. Who doesn't have them? All the ministers had them. One was suspended, the other was timed out in time. That's what we're talking about today. I agree he's not a good criminal law. I agree that there have been many things wrong. But as for Schengen, as for Strojan’s handling of deleted persons, as for other practices, some I personally have poor experience more than good with the police. I confess to him all well. And if I had a word in the government, I would once again appoint Mr. Matthew as Minister. But ask yourself about everyone else. Ask yourself that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna start like this when you step on your tail, and it's gonna blow. But this doesn't fly to the Minister of the Interior, but to all those who wanted to defend his good work. For the Minister never wailed in his explanation. All of you, who were defending his work, were whining that the desert was too short for us to scream to the end. Dear Mr. Secretary! If I have said that in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the self-appointed Lipa will not object to the interpretation, I can honestly tell you that, on the basis of the arguments of fellow Members from your party, from this government coalition, I can tell you that we will support the interpretation. Now I'm going to tell you why. My respectable fellow Member Grill said, "All the references to interpretation are made up." That's not true. However, some entries in the interpolation are only accurate. And you admitted this in your defense at a certain point. It's not all good. To do something better. Nothing or some of the particulars in this interpolation are made up, are real. And that kind of defense, Minister, you don't need. Even when we touch the Private Protection Act. It's a bad marriage. No one, since by our Group of Members of Parliament, the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the People's Party called Lipa, has touched the victims of death. Your proponents have them in a row. I find it completely incorrect to build anything in this country unwarrantedly on the basis of tragic events. Your advocates have won these stories. As I have already said in the presentation of the Group's position, I think it is interpretation as a discussion of how the work of the individual minister took place during a certain period of time in a particular job and not to take it as a bad one. Colleague Irgle, your presentation was more or less directed towards political gathering of points, that interpellation was in the pre-election period, that all of this was not right. But if you look at the board, who has more time, I think it's a coalition. And the accumulation of political points in this case is mutual. We who support interpellation can play the minister. But you, who don't support her, can praise the minister. It's both sides. But you have so much more time. I don't apologize for any politics and eight months before the elections and getting political points, and I don't know what else. Don't make excuses for some non-aggression pact. The term of office shall last from day to day. Just like the game. Always from the beginning to the end. Even if it falls naked in the last minute, there's nothing wrong. The result shall be valid. Even if the minister did something wrong on the last day of his term, he was wrong and the interpretation was justified. Timely, also last week's term of office. Don't say it's a political point, it's an interpolation that's being put in because the elections are going to be in eight months. I find it completely groundless. Even if we look at the time devoted to this debate and who has more, etc. Give protection to the minister, if you want to protect him, with some concrete answers to individual questions. It was these, I think, something. At least on our part, by a group of unrelated Members called Lipa. And I didn't get any answers. I got one answer, and that's because you can't talk about specific cases because it prevents you from law. But I believe everyone would like to hear it. We also know the closed-session institute if we are to disclose anything we would like to say, since the government has the opportunity to do so. As for Ambrus, so much singing. I believe that today, at least by the coalition, we will hear how well everything was there and all O. K. I said it myself. I'm not touching him. I will be happy to hear on what basis the police were invited to Ambrus to protect either the citizens of R Slovenia on the one hand or the Strojan family on the other. This could be discussed. One of my colleagues across the street said, "Yes, but today we're taking advantage of the opportunity because there are media presences." It's a good thing they're here. It is right for people to hear what we have to say to those who support the interpretation and you, Mr Minister, who does not defend himself in this case, but you say what was good done. It's the same thing as media. It is only right that the debate lasts unless you want censorship. Comrade Grimes is a specialist in these areas at all. So I don't think there's any problem talking about it. And another matter that bothered me terribly when some action by a single ministry, regardless of yours, succeeds, we praise the minister. When an action by a single ministry falls, I'll say, or it's a failure, we're holding everyone else back, only the minister's not guilty of anything. That's what I'm gonna say to Janc. Today we all go to the minister, the minister is not responsible for road safety. But when the minister prepares a good marriage, who do we praise? The Minister of Transport, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Economics? That's when we praise the ministers. This duality, I'm going to say, is very inappropriate. Even when we were talking about the ministers' salaries, but now I'm going to the content, Mr. Secretary-General. Or not the ministers, I apologize to the police for not being mistaken, because I've seen you listen very carefully to what I'm saying. With my colleague Virant, you're probably a colleague in the government, and even if it was necessary, I'll put pressure on the police to make something possible. I don't know what correspondence you have inside the government, but as a minister, at least you could take care of your area. If I have a budget surplus, the budget has allocated enough money to the MNZ, including to the Ministry of Public Administration. No one was complaining that he was too small, so we could reconcile it. I don't know why the cops complain. As far as crime, research and these things are concerned, Mr Minister, it will be very difficult for you to convince me of the fact that you mentioned that you do not have an insight into statistics, that you cannot influence statistics. I do not believe such stories alone, but I will say, one of those who are more new in Parliament, but also your superiors know how to influence not only statistics, but also something else in this life. There's one more thing that bothers me. I have put a question to the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, it referred to pedophilia. It's about a year and a half ago, but I believe it or I'm sure I didn't get an answer. I didn't get an answer either, and I didn't see any concrete action in the area, and you know what school it's about because we both went to. And a few more words might be about police politicization. The most resounding story of this moment is definitely a cop who went to school, and he was in hospital. You probably know her better than I do. I know her from the media and from the letters I received as an MP. The officer in his letters says he's getting kicked because on the last day of his hospital, he went to defend a master's degree. But the police want a good shot, right? And it seems to me that if someone had a master's degree, believe me, you, me, or anyone else, would go and defend it with an eighty-flight. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. You can move it for a while, but that's not it. We all like to do everything in the first period. You'd want to stay at your first interview, too, and I believe if we had a fever today, we'd still be sitting here defending ourselves. It seems to me that they are increasingly justified by these, I will insinuate that you will withdraw from the work of the police or degrade them because he has pointed to the problems that are taking place in the police. If that is true and, of course, I will be delighted to hear your answer, either here or on the hearing aid, as Mr Kovacic likes to call it when we are not present, I will be very pleased to hear your answer, why this gentleman has been so. In the context of economic crime, you have received, I think, at least one, I will say, a statement of suspicion of economic crime by the parties or within the framework of the company Paloma of the Sweet Summit. And I'm curious when you study it, not today, after you study it -- it was also reported to the police -- when the police examine it, I'm going to be very interested in the answer given that one of the ministers from the government you come from is directly connected. Clientism in the police department. I can give you a few more examples. A pianist you will probably know a lot about, a teacher of exercise, which you will also tell you about, and perhaps also an inspector who has influenced the deterioration or failure to implement the Law on Private Protection. I wouldn't want it to be public, because I don't think it's appropriate to name names, but then we can talk about it later if you want. As far as individual police officers are concerned. On Brdo pri Kranju they perform this duty until 12 o'clock. Because we are chairing the European Union, it is so important, which is a kind of physical effort. Twelve hours to stand for the salary you get, I think you might turn yourself in. And this happened to one of the colleagues who did it there because of physical effort, and he didn't get any supplement for it. That's the problem, too, but those lower-ups. I'm not talking about the police at the top. I'm talking about those lower-ups. As far as road traffic rules are concerned, respected Minister, perhaps not you, and your successor, who will come, will not save and drop below that threshold or the threshold we all want. It's not a 240 threshold for me. For me, that's the threshold if you could talk about success, say, under 200, if that were possible. But no movement, no story. We hear, "Blood is speed, it's alcohol." It's all wrong, just not the rules. On the other hand, we have issued 19% more fines for traffic offences, which have reduced traffic offences by so much and so. If we turn around. Let's say those who defend you, but I'm not talking about you now, but those who defend you say, "The ministry doesn't have much influence here, the ministry does." When we talked about some other laws, such a law is, say, a smoking law, these same people said, "The Ministry has done everything now. And with this law, we'll stop everything." If it can be done with smokers, why not with those who commit traffic offences? Why not? And this is this duality, you see, of those who defend you. We're not talking about you right now. I speak for those who defend you. Therefore, the savings of time and the savings that no one else will choose to support this interpretation. I appeal to you. Influence! Defend yourself because you're defending yourself properly enough. But when others defend you, it all seems very funny and funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is right to repeat some of the things that have now been mentioned several times and to focus on what is meant by the debate on interpolation. As you know, I might repeat something. Not to explain to you because you know exactly what it is that could be the subject of interpolation. And this is a violation of the laws and the Constitution. And the interpretation is not intended to discuss whether Franc is sitting on the left seat or on the right seat in the office. And of course, I will not answer such questions here, because I think it is quite a time for us to talk about serious issues. Of course, we have some very serious insights into this interpretation. That there will be no wrong impression of what and how my introduction to the text of the interpolation was presented. First, I have to make it very clear. The discussions concerning Lipa, regarding Global, if we take private protection, were not for the first time exposed in this House. I myself would be involved in the discussions. I was present in person where we explained in detail all the details of what was going on, how many measures had been taken, where they had been implemented, why they had been implemented, what measures had been taken in which timeframes, what legal decisions had been issued, and so on. The discussions on this took several hours. I have magnetograms here. These are two inches of thick ledgers tied together. In short, the debates around Global and Lipa have been very, very, very thorough in this House and we have discussed things. But today, in all the debates that have been here, I feel like he's been thrown away all this time. I don't mean today. The one before that. Because we are talking again about exactly the same issues, about exactly the same concerns. Obviously, we will not be able to convince each other who did what was right, who acted in harmony with the law, who did not comply with the law. However, it is correct for the Slovenian public, like everyone else, to have this paper available. Of course, I didn't read the whole response to interpolation because it would take too long. The work I have dedicated, the work of the response I have devoted to the introductory achievements achieved by the Ministry. This is why I mentioned them exclusively, because before that, something had been said about the erosion of the system and how everything was falling apart. Practically nothing works anymore. That's why I had to tell you what we did. And when I went alone through the things that were done, I was also surprised at what we were able to do at that time. But if I go back specifically to Lip's case. The matter is very clear what the police did and the inspectorate in the Lip case. During that period prior to the events at the Lipa restaurant, the inspectorate operated within such frameworks as it did, with the scale and with the personnel it had. It is very difficult for me to assume responsibility for the personnel who worked in the Inspectorate in 2004 and how many people were sitting in this inspectorate at the time. But it is clear from all the reports that the police have done everything and more than is expected of her. She was finding out about the violations. She was present at this place. She warned the institutions that should act. And that didn't happen. At the final stage, we must also ask ourselves about the responsibility of the local community, which issues a permit to operate a particular place. In this case, when the police intervened, power was turned off, the owner of this place used the aggregate, which he supplied with electricity to the place so that it could operate further. In short, a lot of things happened. A lot of inappropriate things have happened and, of course, a tragic event has finally occurred. Trust me! I find it extremely difficult to defend myself against such tragic events. And I don't care. Not just as a minister. As a citizen. Just like a father who has a baby when he's a teenager. I don't care about defending and it's hard to defend. I can only imagine what the system has done to prevent something from happening. I can say that. And I can tell you what we did about Lipa, and I can tell you what we did after 1.1.2006 until 7.10.2007. What did the Ministry do at that time? You all remember the newspaper articles. I'm not showing them here right now. When the police carried out a large-scale operation with the Internal Affairs Inspectorate and another inspectorate in this place. Amazing addresses. Kosovo. War. We're going to destroy business. I don't know what's gonna happen. It was all our fault. In spite of this, the police have dealt with a large number of crimes in this area. She was present virtually every working day at this restaurant. In different forms. With patrols, with attempts at preventive action, with interventions. We had, say, a wide area around this place 51 thieves, 38 injuries, 13 injuries to foreign goods, five deaths of general danger, three burglaries, one rape, two threats to security, gunfire, 29 times we came to the scene of the incident when the perpetrators had already gone somewhere and were practically unable to be identified and so on. We found weapons in individuals, illegal possession of weapons, and so on. Practically, the police and the inspectorate, when they also worked together in the vicinity of this place during the period from 1.1.2006 to 7.10.2007, carried out various activities 270 times. If you count down the days when this place didn't work because it was closed, it's practically every day. Of course, every tragic event. And this is an extremely tragic event. Can't be checked. However, it is necessary to operate with clear and accurate data. When the tragedy occurred, the police secured the scene, did what was necessary. Submitting motions for the detention of suspects, making proposals for the issuance of acts of torture. But of course, it took some time for these papers to be settled. I don't want to blame anyone for taking some time. However, I have to be clear, especially at this time of the parliamentary session, at a time when the person who is a Slovenian citizen and who has been detained has not been released since. So someone didn't just show up and say, "We saw him on the road," and lock him up again. The police can't do that. We can only act in accordance with the laws and in accordance with the grounds of detention. And the police can only spend 48 hours in this country without further court approval. Only the court has everything in its hands, the investigating judge, for how long the detention is imposed for a person. I can't say that the ministry I run is brilliant and there's no mistake in it. Absolutely not, of course they are, mistakes happen everywhere. We have also found faults in the Directorate dealing with licensing and have therefore made the necessary procedures against individuals who have, of course, done what is not appropriate and contrary to certain rules. Clear and concrete sanctions against such persons were followed. Of course, then these people are mortally offended when they lose all the procedures and then they think that documents can just go around like that. I didn't do certain procedures against them because we didn't operate on classified documents, but that shows some kind of relationship and loyalty to the system he worked in. Because documents that are perfectly legal and that anyone can get. Each of the Members may receive them if they so request. There's no problem with that. However, some individuals have worked contrary to the rules. And when we found that out, we also sanctioned that. It is true, however, that we have also found this because of the discussion we had in Parliament, where I have become even more attentive to certain matters. And in fact, because of these discussions, I have found some shortcomings that have occurred in the system. And then, of course, we tried to get them out in the best way possible. If I go any further, maybe only with Global. Around these dates and ambiguities and possibly incorrect reading of the response to interpolation. It is very clear when something has been done and when something has come. For example, the inspectorate issued a decision, one of the decisions it issued in 7.5.2005. This decision became legal in 2007 by judgment, and the Inspectorate received a notice of jurisdiction. We cannot act on the fact that we have heard that the case is legal in court, but that it has been dealt with, but that the newspaper says that it is legal. We can't do that. We can only work when we have all the legal grounds. We received this notice on 12.10.2007. For another decision, which was issued later, we received notice on 7.12.2007. And if I want to withdraw, temporarily or permanently withdraw the licence, procedures are necessary. I.D., things are going through the D.O.P. We need to question the parties. They have the right to express their views. And of course, the person who is on the other side of the process has quite a few possibilities of how he can stall it. Okay, it doesn't pick up the first day of the mail, pick up the last, 15th day of the mail, and, of course, extend all hands when a document can then be issued. And we must respect the rule of law in this country. Of course, there is no other way in which we can act in our procedures. Unfortunately. Maybe it sounds official, maybe it sounds too dry. However, I do not imagine that an authority such as an inspectorate or an authority such as the police could just act like that, if inspired. Unfortunately, we can't do that. And it's also right that we don't do that. We can only work by doing concrete things with regard to laws. And one more thing. Since 2002, we have a judgment of a court that clearly referred to one another's inspectorate, who issued the decision in this way. He issued the decision. She wasn't legal. He's banned some kind of activity. The court dismissed this as illegal. There are judicatures about it. It didn't just come about like that. It was mentioned earlier that this VIP company had special security status at the Ministry. Yeah, she had it. But it is such that I have been so much more attentive to certain things and that I have demanded precisely because of certain procedures concerning this society and with some other additional opinions outside the house that I could then decide on the basis of the information I had. I would further touch on another point which is related to the findings that are in interpretation - the Council for Prevention and Education. It was very clear earlier by your fellow Member that the law had been lifted by the Council for Prevention and Education. It's not in the law. It doesn't say anything about that. All it says is that an agency will be set up. Nowhere has it been defined that this agency will have exhibits all over Slovenia at the local level. Nowhere. It would be the abolition of the world as a whole and the operation of all the worlds, which are all known throughout the country, operating on a voluntary basis, performing extremely important work mainly in prevention, especially in working in a truly local environment, in specific environments, in schools, etc., which play one of the most important roles in involving people on the first day of school, on the first day of school, when the first day of school needs help. What happened to that? It is true that, at the outset of the first amendment of the law, the abolition of this agency was not proposed. Why? It is very simple - because we wanted to examine in detail whether it is right to set up an agency, that we have a body at the top of the country that will have, as proposed, 50 employees. The Council for Prevention and Education at the Republic level - please - had 5 employees with a secretary. One person was on maternity leave, one worked for four hours and was disabled for four hours. Then we had a boss and two other people and a secretary. Let's know what we're talking about. That no one would think there were 20, 50, 100 people working there every day in the Council of Prevention and Education. It is clear that this Council for Prevention and Education had certain institutions, certain bodies to which persons from certain spheres came and, of course, adopted certain guidelines, proposals, etc. And that's how it works. With - of course, it is not irrelevant what I have already said today that no money was foreseen in the 2005 and 2006 budget. Nothing was envisaged for the agency or for the world and we had to provide money within the ministry so that we could finance it. These are the facts. You can also look at the marriage. You will see that the ZVCP Act in 2004 stated that the costs incurred by law are lower than that of the minimum amount when it comes to explaining what will happen. Calculate for yourself the cost of fifty newly employed people who were secretaries, drivers, drivers, and drivers, and I don't know what. We need an effective body. By transferring competences for the Road Safety Act, which is, by the way, 99% of the countries of the European Union under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and also those in their own world are addressing this issue, not in the Ministry, not in the world of internal affairs, of course, we have done this logically. We have also put some excellent experts in this field. Some may agree that they are not, some will agree that they are. However, we have given quite a few people who had previously not only dealt with this, but the activity of transport safety was one of their work tasks. They went specifically for that purpose. Some of these people have progressed there to major positions with the director of the Directorate. So I don't know what would be wrong with putting these experts there to do that. Of course, it is very important that the next question, which was also raised in the interpolation, is an electoral directory. Here I have tried several times in the debates, and I have had a question on this subject, which I have answered in full. I have received a written question, which I have answered in full. I responded comprehensively to him in response to the interpolation and briefly described him earlier. And now I'm going to do it again, so it'll be crystal clear how these statements work. There are precise data which, of course, speak about the number of citizens, Slovenian citizens who do not have permanent residence in Slovenia, that there will be no error. It's not just the Slovenes in the sub. These are not just Slovenians in overseas countries. These are all Slovenian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in Slovenia come to this directory. And according to the previous legislation we had - why do I always speak on the date of the number? Because of the daily changes in numbers, we need to keep these data closely kept and maintained daily; on 21.9.2004, we had 9,477 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who lived around the world registered under the law of that time. On 2.12.2006 we had 12,444 persons enrolled. This can be checked out. If you request, you can get a copy at exactly the same date of the exact number. It's all got to be one thing. There can be no mistakes here. We can't afford that. And then, of course, the law changed. The law was passed in this National Assembly and ordered us to enter all persons into this directory on an official basis. We brought them in. It wasn't easy work. In a very short period of time, nearly 60,000 people had to be entered into this directory within six months. By official duty, when these data are entered, before they were submitted at the request of an individual, of course, he gave all the information. All those who have been listed very precisely by the Member of Parliament and I agree, all these data are listed very precisely. However, when we had a duty to officially enter citizens into this directory, we had to record all of them, whether we had all the data or not. This is our duty. If we hadn't done that, of course, I'd have the obvious today that I didn't bring everyone in, that I'd made up my mind or that some official of mine had decided who had the right to be in this directory and who didn't. All Slovenian citizens have the right to vote, all of them. Regardless of gender, race, nationality. Everybody! And if the law was passed and the law said that we had to bring everyone in on official duty, we brought them all in. And there was no mistaking here. The exact figures exist for the first and second rounds of how many people were in the electoral directory, how many people we had an unknown country, how many people were known only by the country, how many people we wrote electoral records and what addresses it was sent to. It's all very accurate. To the number exactly. There was no machination here, and there must be no machination. And therefore, I cannot possibly accept the evidence of a large number of officials who worked hard, not at the Ministry, not even in the administrative units, which introduced all of this to be wrong. It is true, in one case, that an election card has been sent to someone who is not a Slovenian citizen. It's true, France. The embassy has received this announcement. We were figuring out why this happened. And we found that someone in one of the administrative units in Slovenia made a mistake. The man made a mistake, an individual, not a system. It's a case like this. I can't say now that there was no mistake. It was, but we need to know what the mistake was and why it happened. We investigated her and corrected her mistake. In the second round of the election, this error was no longer in the electoral directory. So it is necessary to be very specific about what electoral rights are, electoral directories, when they unfold. Of course, the most important thing is that the Ministry of the Interior does not decide that electoral records were sent. This shall be decided by the Republic Election Commission. The Ministry of the Interior is only a service that makes a decision. But what decisions have been made there, and please don't ask me. I am not responsible for this and cannot be held responsible for the decisions taken by the Republican Election Commission. And then, in the end, their report was such that there were no complications. And there is no shadow of doubt in the elections we held in the last elections as President of the Republic. On the following matter, which was also mentioned in your debates and I would like to touch it, however, because I would like to defend myself as one of the Members said I should defend myself. Of course, I must wait for all the parliamentary groups to give their opening presentations and then I have the opportunity to respond. Now, of course, I would like to summarise something more about this. First of all, I would like to say something about prevention and preventive activities on Slovenian roads by the Slovenian police. It is not true that because there is no frame, because it is too small, we do not carry out preventive action. Police carry out preventive actions, attend primary schools, conduct certain lectures. It's probably not ideal. We can do more and I personally think that we can take a step further in this area. We have a very well-covered preventive activity in kindergartens. We have very good coverage of education and the provision of these content to children up to the fourth grade of primary school. Then we have some emptiness in the second part of primary school by the beginning of secondary school, because some young people are already starting, trying to drive motorcycles for which they can work exams and, of course, they are further educated in this later. And in this period, we have a reserve where we can do something to further integrate some content into the curriculum. And the police will cooperate. He's already in on it. And the police in the preventive area have produced a lot of activity in the last year. I, too, have already answered this question in the National Assembly with precise figures on how many preventive actions, in which areas. And if I just add it up. We dealt with juvenile delinquency, school violence, drug abuse, domestic violence and child abuse, both at school and at home, also related to sexual violence. We have been associated with non-governmental organisations with which we have carried out this together. We continued to work preventively in traffic safety with regard to speed, belt, scooter rides and so on. With the youngest children, we had a bunch of actions that are defined in different ways. With each beginning of the school year, policemen show up at virtually all Slovenian schools where they present themselves as police officers to children, as persons who are on the road to help them. Not like someone who would be bau bau and scare them. Individual police administrations and stations have even made special stacks on these topics. They even made certain colors. Self-initiative also, which we later co-financed with the Ministry, and have achieved that this has been shared among children, that children have received in some additional way some knowledge regarding road safety. And, of course, with other dangers that survive on them in the modern world. Of course, I also find it very difficult to admit that police officers are less educated than they were in the past. In the past, we had a police high school, a cadet, like we told her. In this process, the police went to school and started doing their job. The current post-2000 education process is such that female or male officers can run for the job with four-year secondary school and graduation and, of course, are subjected to specific examinations, psychological examinations, and security checks and then carry out another eighteen-month education. So, they've been educated a lot. General education is waste because, of course, they have received it and then they only get the expertise they need to work. And these eighteen months are evenly divided between theory and practice. Of course, they also have practical training at police stations at that time. So it would be very difficult to accept the fact that Slovenian police officers are less educated and are differently educated than they were in the past. The hardest thing is to accept and, in fact, understand the dictate that the police are politicized. I'd be happy if someone made me a list of how many people in the police have taken any responsibility, so they came off the street and have no transitional police knowledge. But if it is that someone retires and puts himself in this place another policeman who has come to this function in the hierarchy, of course, I ask myself, ‘ What was the recruitment of these police officers in the past years? I can't, I can't, I can't, but the police director can't put someone in a job by jumping five stairs. No more than two steps, someone can jump. You know what the rules are. And that's not usually how you do it. So I really don't know where the idea that I, as a minister, influence the director of the police to put people on the political line. As you know, the police are not members of political parties. We shouldn't be in line with the law. I hope they're not. If we knew who he was, we'd put him in proper procedures. Because he's breaking the law. I'm very sorry, regardless of the client. I don't care. But I do know that some of these officers have tried to influence me to occupy certain places and refer to, I don't know, which parties. This paper, none of these papers came to the police director and none of these people were put in the places they wanted. Because it's the police director's job to recruit. And when I, with supervision, find that there are problems in some police administrations or I'm becoming a problem, I demand responsibility. And then the police director decides how he'll react. And two cases were mentioned. What did we do with the particular Bentley case in Nova Gorica, and where did it go and I don't know what happened? Because of this event, there have been consequences. It's human resources, too. Because it was difficult for someone for a year and a half to answer a letter from the Nova Gorica Police Department to replace a few pieces in non-working cameras. I mean, internal control showed us everything that happened. The system of 10,000 people works in the Ministry of the Interior. Ten thousand men! And, of course, there are mistakes. But that some boss in the office didn't have half a year to order his subordinates to check out why the cameras, the security cameras on Nova Gorica Police Board don't work. Please! Absolutely, I demanded responsibility. I didn't ask for anyone to be removed by the police director, not put anywhere. I don't care. I demanded that the person responsible be responsible. If that hadn't happened, the Director-General of the Police would have been responsible. Things are very simple. I can't do anything else. You know exactly what the hierarchy is like in the police department and who answers to who. And in the end, the director of police answers to the minister and to the government. And I will also act in the future on any such mistakes. This wasn't just about one Bentley that we caught and put him in another location where he was safe and we brought him back. It wasn't about that. It was the reputation of the police. I can't play with the reputation of the police. I really cannot play, and therefore, of course, I ask the Director of Police to act when irregularities occur. Hemp theft in Celje. That's amazing. How did they store this hemp for years and years in an huto or in an abandoned warehouse without cameras, without alarms, with a chain around their necks? Please! It was only a matter of time before it happened. Probably doesn't expect any of me to go through all the warehouses of every police station in the world to figure that out. But then when we found out, we put in certain measures. Not just. The chief of police ordered them. I'm the one who asked him to order action to determine what the state of affairs is in the police force. And all over the police, of course, they checked what was going on. Of course, we have other drug feeding problems here that I wouldn't open here today. But I'd like to stop by the police and their work. Or so I'll say. You've probably all noticed that in three years and something else, since I've been in charge of the ministry, I'm not on television every day. Because that's unnecessary. I don't have the habits that some other ministers might have had who wanted to be on camera. I don't have any need, and I don't want to do it. When I show up in front of the cameras, there can be two important reasons. Whether something terrible has happened, it is important to alert citizens or someone thinks that something is wrong in the system and that these questions need to be answered. For other reasons, I don't have to be in front of the cameras. And of course, that's why I don't explain publicly what I'm talking to some of my colleagues, how we negotiate for police salaries and what's going on back there. Fortunately, in my past, I was taught some procedures. So I can do a lot of things in so-called quiet diplomacy. Not only within Slovenia, but also outside the country. That is why in some areas I have also been successful, hand to heart. But in this particular case, we have reached a compromise. We reached a compromise between the police union, within the Ministry of Public Administration. And at the meeting where we reached a compromise, you can ask union confidants, the Minister of the Interior and the Director-General of the Police also sat. We both sat at this meeting. And that's when it really moved. I played that part of the role that I think was needed. Anyone can say that cops would earn bigger wages. I could say, "Yeah. Maybe that's true. Maybe that's what I personally think." But that's irrelevant. We and I have to have the whole picture. They must not break the relationship in pay systems. There must be certain relationships between different professions and similar professions. They must be similarly valued. And that's why we found some compromise that was then acceptable to everyone. I would, of course, like to talk about the fact that the police have somehow also been mentioned several times, that they work a lot in offices, that they are too few on the roads, that they are not present enough. Since I've been a minister in this ministry, I've been dealing with specific questions: how many police officers we have on the ground, operational police officers who work, a policeman with one star for an ordinary citizen, works there; how many of those who sit in police stations and are directing; how many of those who sit in the general police department. And the trend has begun to change. It's not an easy job, it's very difficult. And in three years, employees in the general police administration have been reduced by 200. Only those jobs that are urgently needed and are boss’s are replaced. It doesn't automatically advance to higher positions anymore. And we have to have enough cops on the ground doing their job. I don't care how politics have led in the past. I know what needs to be done to ensure that the police can work effectively. And at this point, we are in a situation where we are successful in our work. Only successful because of different receptions, organizational, that we can act the way we do and that we raise the level of investigation. And this is not about falsifying these documents, as I have mentioned several times today. And that someone doesn't believe that I don't have access to it. He can come into my computer tomorrow to look at everything I've ever seen. I have no right to enter anything into the police's computers into the FIO record. Nothing! I don't have the right to access either. I don't have any right to access that data and not enter it. That is why it is extremely inappropriate for those who know how this is going on to operate so easily that I do it and that "we know how it runs". Maybe it used to run like that. It hasn't been like this since I was in this department. If that were the case, believe me, the next day all the media or at least the MPs would know that I did it and demanded it. And then we'd be entitled to interpolation. Completely justified! And if you did that and you'd tell me, you'd walk away on your own. Of course, that's how I see things differently. Police response. It has been said that the police's response is the same as it is and that it is poorer and worse. However we look at statistics, I can only look at police response in recent years, from 2003 to 2007. The response of police patrols shall be counted in seconds. Not in a minute, in seconds! Every police intervention, from the time it's called, until a police officer gets to the scene, shall be counted in seconds as long as the police patrol needs it. The system records all calls automatically. So that's not what we're gonna do, or we're gonna do something different. Nothing can be changed in this automatic system! And in 2003 we had an average time of 21.03 minutes of response time for all calls made to police stations. In 2007, we improved this time to 20 minutes and 41 seconds. For emergency emergency calls, it is said, where it is specifically expressed that lives are at risk and so on and so forth, there is an exact rule, what are those that are divided into "all calls", and those that are urgent, interventional. And we had a response time of 15 minutes and 3 seconds in 2003. In 2007, we had a response time of 12 minutes and 22 seconds. It's an average, of course. You can say, "Yeah. In some cases, however, it happened that the response time was a few seconds away." Yes, he was. I agree. It was shorter. However, we must have general information on the mass of interventions that we have every day in the Republic of Slovenia, and on the basis of general data we assess performance. I also assess the success of the police work in this regard, and the Director of Police is the success of individual police administrations and individual police stations. And statistics exist both for each other and for each other. A human resources deficit that was discussed and how I would like to have more police officers in the field and fewer police officers in the offices. I have to say, of course, not to refer to another government, I don't know which government. A very simple fact has to be said: the police received a lot of tasks in 2004. A lot of administrative tasks, and that's why she didn't get any jobs. Until the Law on Administrative Procedure was amended, on Offences, Sorry, on Offences, we practically lost all the assistant police station commanders who only wrote in offices for eight hours. They didn't do anything else. With one small amendment to one article, which you have confirmed to God, we have reached swift procedures and have thus burdened these police officers for the other tasks they needed to perform. Because the commander's assistants aren't exactly at the police station. They help the police station commander run the work, organize the work, oversee the police, how they do it on the ground. As a result, we increased our response times, improved our quality of work, and more. Unfortunately, I have to say that a small number of local police officers did not start in 2003, or 2004 or 2005. It started long ago in 1996, when some people came up with brilliant ideas to shut down the head of the security environment and thereby cut off that core of police action in the local environment, where we had that local policeman who knew who was a bum in this environment, who was that bum who came home every night and drank too much - in smaller places, of course. And we lost that. We lost it in a few years. They shut it down. It was canceled. Now we're bringing it back in with the pain. The system needs to be adjusted. We need to introduce this gradually, and I firmly hope that no matter who will be Minister of the autumn, this project will continue. Because he's good! Because cops have to be in the local environment! They must have contact with the people! And a sense of security is not just a percentage. I agree absolutely with everyone you said here that statistics can turn left, can turn right. We within statistics can solve individual crimes and define them differently. It's a sense of security. We can have a 100% investigation and our citizens can still feel dangerous. It's a very subjective feeling. And, of course, the appearance of police officers on the road, in the local environment, creates a greater sense of security, and this is the way we have to go back. They call this outside a modern-day job in the local community. We just had the name of the head of the security environment. And we have to give them back that role they had. And precisely this is what the police have been getting from me and over the next five years, for a five-year plan that I, as a minister, have been prescribed for the police, is to reinstate to explore how and to introduce in the following year. This is the only way that we can function normally in this area and that we can be more successful. I would like to touch on some other issues that have been specifically raised here around the Schengen area and how the Schengen will be successful or unsuccessful and how we will look at these matters. It is absolutely necessary to say that the previous Slovenian government has been extremely successful in negotiating with the European Union and we have received a relatively low number of police officers that we have had to employ further. We are the only member of the European Union not obliged to set up a special border police force to protect the southern border. The only one! We protect the Slovenian border in the entire depth of the territory of Slovenia. Because of the relief, because of the good negotiators and everything. There was a lot of work done before I took over the ministry, and a lot of work was done even when I took over the ministry. Most of the buildings were built later, and Slovenian police officers were able to ensure the protection of the Schengen border in 2006 with their expertise. All our evaluations were positive. The only serious thing that remained open to these reviews was the issue of the Brnik airport, which we successfully solved, and the second issue of the transition of Croatian citizens to Slovenia with ID cards, which we resolved through bilateral negotiations and negotiations with Hungary, Italy and all members at the political level at the end. Because that was, after all, a political issue. Because Slovenian police officers have done their job so well in Slovenia, we have been able to help countries that have been less prepared and who have practically failed to meet the conditions for entry into the Schengen area in 2006 to meet the necessary standards. Slovenia was one of those innovations that could have helped other countries in this area. We didn't send 10, 100, 200 police officers there to help, we sent experts, people who knew the organization in detail, and then we helped these countries to stand up so that we could all somehow join the Schengen space at the same time. This isn't about doing anything for the minister. This is where the police showed their expertise and helped. As Minister, I could of course do something different; this is that I have convinced the other ministers in Europe that this project "...one for all" pays to push forward and that we have achieved all the political consensus we need. And there were a lot of them. There have been many strong meetings, many meetings, which have been extremely tiring, in various countries for various reasons. But in the end, we were successful. With regard to Schengen, I would also like to see the latest information they are saying that we are practically regularly monitoring and making available. How successful the Schengen Information System is also for the security of Slovenia. We do not have this Schengen information system only for the security of other countries of the European Union, even for us. Since we've had access to this data, we've checked it for over six and a half million passengers crossing our southern border. These are third-country passengers who are not EU citizens. We've had over 3,300 positive hits. We've tracked down 53 people who have been assigned detention warrants. We have rejected the entry of 2,394 persons who, for various reasons, had a prohibited entry into one of the Member States of the European Union. And if they are inappropriate for them, I think they are largely inappropriate for being in the Republic of Slovenia, because they can also do something that is inappropriate or could be illegal. We found 18 missing persons. We have handed over 359 people at our borders to the courts and then transferred them to the countries which have issued such requests through judicial cooperation. We have affected more than 300 vehicles that have been stolen within the territory of the European Union and have tried to exit or enter the European Union. This is an extremely high data that tells us that the police are doing well, that we are a reliable partner to all the other members of the European Union and that the data we now have are also providing our citizens with a higher level of security. And maybe two more sentences would say about that famous sentence that we broke the bridges. Some of the eyebrows were broken, and I have all the pictures of those eyebrows. Any Member who wishes to have them may obtain them at any time, on the Internet or in paper form. It was the eyebrows that were broken, which were not in use and at which the crossing of the state border was prohibited. No one had this city registered in a small border pass or in an agricultural contribution so that it could pass there. And that's why they were removed. Because they threatened people if they actually used these spaces. And of course, there is something else to say about this government and that this minister, who is now in front of you, is introducing restrictive provisions of laws. About the shengen. It's about the shengen. In 2001, the Slovenian Government promised the European Union in the negotiations and signed that it would legislate Article 99 of the Schengen Code and transpose it into our legislation and commit itself to doing so in the first half of 2002. She didn't do it. Why? I don't know, and I don't care. But I know it was necessary to bring it in. And we had extensive discussions on this 99th article and a lot of instigations that talked about secretly following journalists, secretly following people because of this 99th article, and I don't know what else. We have found a good compromise on who we can introduce under Article 99, also thanks to you, Members who wanted to define this specifically, according to the articles, precisely so that there will be no confusion. I think we did it right. It is very difficult to accept that we have not been cooperative here in this area, but in principle we have had to introduce this article. We had to bring him in. We couldn't help it. Otherwise we wouldn't be able to enter the Schengen area. And of course, the opening of internal borders has brought great advantages for a large part of the Slovenian population, especially at the current internal borders and, of course, some additional "problems", if I say so, in quotations, for those of our citizens living on the southern border. However, there are some things that need to be said explicitly in this regard. First, Schengen border control was fully implemented in 2006. Perfect. The only thing we didn't have in 2006 is the Schengen Information System, which we only had access to on September 1, 2009, and Slovenia was the first to meet all the criteria, Slovenia was the first to fully use this system, and the one that had the least difficulty in implementing this system. And this gave us the opportunity to help others with their problems in this regard. And, of course, it would be very difficult for me to agree to the claims that have been heard today in discussions that we have withdrawn the officers from the interior to the Schengen border. Here it is very clear: those police stations operating at border crossings have been removed and abolished. Police at border crossings have never, ever worked in a local environment. They acted exclusively at the border crossing and performed tasks related to the control of border crossing passengers. When these police stations were abolished, in accordance with the laws that we have also amended in this National Assembly, based on the Schengen Code, we have introduced police stations for compensatory measures. These police stations have more authority and operate in the local environment. We have set up six such police stations, deployed most of the police officers who used to work at border crossings, in these units, and are now operating in prevention, mainly in the field of organised crime, cross-border crime, illegal migration. And when they operate in these areas, they also automatically operate in the local environment. They're there. We've got an extra number of police officers who, however, appear in this local environment and operate here. And perhaps just briefly about the deleted, which were mentioned several times. This is the word you Members use, I cannot accept it at all. We are talking about people who have not settled their residence status in the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, it's obvious that this is the European theme. No, it's not a European theme. And this is not a priority for the Slovenian Presidency. You may put me in the headlines tomorrow, as I hope to state it, but I say very clearly and directly: the issue of persons who have not settled their residence status in the Republic of Slovenia since February 1992 is not a priority of the Slovenian Presidency and I, as President of the Council, will not put this topic on any world. Because this is not a topic to be addressed in this world and it would be extremely unusual, of course, but Members in the European Parliament have the right to ask about these issues and the Member mentioned, Vice-President Katya, has been given an answer. He asked me what we'd done, what we'd do, and what we'd do about it. And I said that this issue has been open here for some time now, and those gentlemen who have had a government for 12 years could have ended this question, but in those 12 years they haven't. Nor did the Minister, who had a decision by the Constitutional Court, complete this project. He stopped in the middle - I don't know why, I don't know why. But I know how much money he spent on it, and I know how they worked. But I don't know why he stopped, and I don't care. But I know he didn't save the case until the end, and I could if I wanted to. He probably freaked out about the elections coming in 2004, and that's why he stopped the project. But that was his decision. Absolutely his decision as minister. We are now in a situation where the Government has proposed to this National Assembly a constitutional law to resolve this issue. It is up to you to decide: you will accept it, you will not accept it. There's quite a few faces I've made more than one meeting on this subject. We used to have a more similar view of this, sometimes very different, depending on the person we spoke to. Sometimes these eyes changed. But this is the right of you Members to decide. I did my part, I tried to find a solution, I tried to find a compromise. A number of meetings were held on these subjects. In the end, I decided to propose this law to the government, and the government confirmed it. It is now in the hands of the National Assembly to decide on the fate of this law and there will be a broad debate on this law in the debate, and I hope that we will find appropriate compromise solutions so that we can close this issue. However, there is no way I can accept the claim made here today that we have taken our citizenship to the citizens of the European Union. It's pure demagogy. I'm very sorry to use such a hard word: pure demagogy. The citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ, who lived in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, all had citizenship in one of these republics. Nationality has been extremely carefully regulated. I was very surprised when I spoke abroad with foreign ministers and with representatives of the Commission who had no idea that nobody had explained to them that citizenship in the SFRY was a matter of republics! Not the Federation! A foreigner who came to Slovenia had to apply for citizenship in Slovenia or in any other country, and when he became a Slovenian citizen, he became an automatic Yugoslav citizen. But the papers said "republic citizenship"! And each of these people had citizenship. It is very difficult to accept the claim from anyone that this country has been ugly, rude and I do not know what else to do with people coming from other republics to this country. This country has passed the law. The National Assembly has adopted a law which has opened the door widest and the possibility of obtaining Slovenian citizenship for all, under special conditions for all persons who were citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ. More than 170,000 people - this was almost 9% of the population of Slovenia in 1991 and 1992 - received citizenship in this way. And it was the same thing that we were open. A lot of people might even criticize me for saying that. However, we have consciously decided on these steps. This was accepted by the National Assembly, and the state has done so. But we had 18,000 people who didn't want to settle their citizenship or foreign status in this country. As a result, these issues had to be addressed differently. Perhaps the original solutions were not the most fortunate, there have been many legislative proposals over the coming years that have tried to resolve this issue, but no draft law has tried to address this issue in its entirety. And if we go back to the Constitutional Court's decision, it's inconsistent. I am very sorry to have such an opinion on this, but I also have the right to have an opinion on this. There's a whole category of people being released in there. There is nothing written about persons who were among those who did not have status and acquired Slovenian citizenship in the meantime. There is nothing we can do for Slovenian citizens back there. This is very clear legislation on this and there is no reference to these persons. How are we going to resolve the status of these people during that period? There's no solution. I hope that in the debate that will be held in this National Assembly, there will be a good debate and that we may nevertheless find some reasonable solutions that will be acceptable both to the opposition and to the position and which will fully resolve this issue. Because each separate solution in some segments leads us to an even greater complication and even more complicated hat, and I think that at least in this case we all probably agree that the hat is already complicated enough and that it would be good to sort it out in some way. And there is something else that I would like to say about the statement that one Member mentioned today that the Minister did not know how to answer the Council-President on the Return Directive, how many months we want to have a detention warrant. For about two years, negotiations between the Council and between Parliament on the Return Directive are ongoing. No Presidency has been able to conclude these negotiations so far, and it is now up to our Presidency to conclude these negotiations in one way or another. I can't say how we're going to be able to finish them, but we're going to finish them. In our Presidency, this dossier will undoubtedly be concluded because Parliament will vote on this in May or June at its meeting. Why couldn't I answer that question? It's very simple. I can't explain my opinions and my views there. I am bound to the opinion of the Council, I am bound to the opinion and to the consensus of twenty-seven ministers or twenty-six ministers, and I will also give an opinion on this. And when the world finally decides on this, one of the most difficult issues in this Return Directive and the most sensitive issues for most Member States, then I will be able to make a clear position. But not at the plenary session, but at the negotiations with the rapporteur on this file with Mr Webro, who is in charge of Parliament and has all the power to negotiate. We are in the middle of negotiations on this file, I have already met him twice on this and if everything goes as planned, we will have negotiations in mid-March at the level of ministers, at the highest level. The technical negotiations run at least once a week, sometimes twice a week, to find compromises that would, of course, lead to a solution to this very sensitive issue and, of course, a very "problem" if, under such terms, I say, questions for which a number of Member States of the European Union are concerned. So briefly also about what has somehow been exposed here so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you. I now owe Mrs Irgle a replica of the implementation of Mr Zagorec, because she was quoted and used to its implementation. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you. I just want to replicate briefly because I was mentioned earlier by the proponents. I would like to replicate the timing of this interpretation during the Presidency of the European Union. I was told, in view of my implementation, that the interpretation of the reading could be essential earlier, it is said, before the presidency. It just doesn't hold. If that were true, then it would be possible, Comrade Skullsch, only if Minister Mate did not respond to your findings. That means if I didn't send written answers to your eyewitnesses. But if we know business regulations, then we know that everyone has the right, including the minister, to answer the obvious in writing. And one more thing, I have been told, is that in my debate I am also talking about things that are not the subject of this debate. It is true, I agree, but with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Rupl began with regard to documents and computers, which is why, Mr Szkolč, it is best that you turn to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Gulic raised his hand before, do you have a procedural proposal? Otherwise you don't have a moment, Mr. Gulič. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u59	I was thinking on behalf of the proposaler just to remind you of something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u60	No, he raised his hand and he has the right, Mr. Skolcz. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u61	No, I would like to replicate, but at the time of the LDS Group, because what the Minister was talking about in relation to the things that were happening in the European Parliament was said at the time of the parliamentary group. Please, if that's how you count time. Could you arrange time, please, just as you deserve?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u62	You're a proponent. There's no replica on the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u63	Mr Vice President, I do not have a replica of the replica, but of what Mr Minister has done and refers to what I myself have been talking about. Therefore, there is a possibility of replica, please register the correct time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u64	As far as I can tell, I didn't say a word. Mr. Skull, you weren't named as much as I tried. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u65	Mr Vice-President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u66	Can I finish? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u67	No, Minister Mate spoke precisely about the things and "defyed" about the recording of his performance in Brussels. He tried to frame you that I said it was a priority of the Slovenian Presidency. The Slovenian public and I drew attention to the fact that the European Members - and I quoted a gentleman who is the Vice-President of this Committee - said they expected this to be a priority for the Slovenian Presidency. That they expected this is, I'll say, understandable because they're dealing with the protection of human rights. However, I am sorry, Mr Minister, that you were not as hospitable as you are here, because there you very simply rejected this discussion as inappropriate and that you have a solution with constitutional law in your hands. The people facing this problem in Europe did not meet for the first time when they saw you. They also had a few consultations on this, and there are requested legal opinions, and they have also expressed, I quote, "appropriate disappointments about your response". The point is, I'm going to say, these accusations, I repeat, sorry, but it's an object of international shame that you're still defending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I don't think that was a replica, because I didn't give you the replica to implement a minister who didn't mention you in his implementation, he talked about a lot of things, but he didn't mention you. And what you've just been talking about, you've been talking about as a proponent. I consider this a debate. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u69	I apologize, but we must be very clear about the European Parliament's rules of play in the European Parliament. And if you don't know everyone in this room, the time is extremely accurate and the minister has exactly the number of minutes he can speak, he gets a very large number of questions, say, at the plenary session last time there were one and a half hours of questions, but I had exactly three and a half minutes to answer all the questions that were asked in an hour and a half. So it is also theoretically impossible to answer all the questions and in the debate I was sitting on, Mr Catania did not express his belief that this should be one of the priorities of the Presidency and that he expected it, but said he was interested in what we had done in this regard and I explained to him what I had said that the issue of persons who had not settled their status in the Republic of Slovenia was being tried by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve with a proposal for a law that was sent to the National Assembly and that is also consistent with the facts. Now that we agree on how we will resolve this and what solutions will ultimately be, of course, is another issue. The government has taken a step towards solving this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister with his associates. Today, one of my colleagues has been talking about desert as an inappropriate time for today's interpolation. However, this is not the first time that the interior minister has been intertwined on the desert. It was also nine years ago, but the difference was that the debate lasted for a few days and that the minister himself was dismissed. That's for those who talk about inappropriateness, cheap point collection and the like. Of course, interpolation cannot succeed if at least someone in the coalition does not listen to the argument for interpolation and then does not decide. This is the difference between the desert nine years ago and today's desert. At that time, part of the coalition under the weight of the arguments decided to dismiss the minister. Today, of course, after the executions so far, this will not be the case, and it is not even essential. Personally, I have a special relationship to interpretation. I, Mr. Minister, have not supported or signed interpellations against your two former colleagues, not Dr. Brucan, not Dr. Simoniti. And I signed this interpolation first in my third term since I've been here. And why did I sign it? It is a force of serious concern, it is a threat to the safety of citizens and citizens, first of all. Secondly, it's about destroying a good name for the police and the cops. And thirdly, there's an increasing number of police and police abuses. And of course, like any normal citizen, I can't care what kind of reputation the police have, because, at the end of the day, my security and the safety of other fellow citizens and fellow citizens depend on its proper and good reputation. Of course, I therefore reject, on behalf of myself, all incitements to the cheap collection of political points and similar matters. In 16 years, I had the opportunity to monitor the work of the police from a distance, to cooperate with them in those worst times, and 16 years from the establishment of the country. That is why I know quite well the various reorganisational changes, the good and the bad, and a lot of things. However, what has been going on lately, this, no matter what some of you are trying to induce, in the past, has not been or at least has not been so much. I, Mr Minister, am not going to ask you any questions so that I don't embarrass you, that you should answer or that you should be embarrassed that you can't say anything. Far from it. I'm going to try a few short cases as an eyewitness to illustrate the reality of the readings, at least for some who are in interpolation. In your defense, you have given a whole range of statistics, in particular in the field of transport safety or its state of transport safety. As you can see, there are fewer accidents, more injuries, easier injuries are more and more - of course, like 19% increase in fines, alcoholization tests have increased by 25%, and in fact alcoholized drivers have found less than 10% more. Of course, what is the weakness of your defense - that those who have helped you normally and prepared this, I understand - that you have not processed the statistics - have not written you the right conclusions and, of course, statistics are very embarrassing if it is used embarrassedly or at all wrong conclusions are being made. I'm just going to ask one of your pointers or I'm not going to ask because I said or promised. You know, somewhere in the strategy of tactics and working methods in the field of transport, which we cannot assess, we can only assess the results of these measures and tactics and strategies. First of all, let's write the cheapest. And of course, I'm asking, if you had to spend 25% more alcoves, I'm going to make it very easy to find the bad 10 more alcoholics. I don't have a problem with this because I don't drink that you don't think I'm being burdened with anything, but I've witnessed the bullying, because our alcoholics and your police are also using, and in this difference, I'm sure there's a lot of bullying. In a violation of a speed limit of 6 kilometers, on Saturday, at half past 12 o’clock, alcotest will also follow in the settlement. This is a real event, this is an illustration, you know, of the plans that the cops are on, especially those who consciously have decided to work in the area of human security, disappointed and acknowledge that they are getting statistical tasks and of course become some kind of bedfellows who are writing assignments. On a number of occasions, this statistics are also adapted to statistics, as well as to reactions, and if you want to, also the disclosure of certain crimes. Statistically, you're operating on average response time, although you used to talk in seconds, I think it's a real unit of minutes. But the fact is, Mr Minister, that a few days ago, the response of the traffic police is 50 kilometres from Ljubljana on the highway to Celje for an hour and a half when there are nine passenger vehicles in conflict and when the very presence and waiting of these drivers on the highway poses a great threat both to them and to other participants. It's a real picture. I understand and, of course, with the interpretation as such has nothing to do with listing all the investments you have provided and I welcome them. By asking about motorcycles, because I know how much they were purchased in the past, where they were and how someone treated them, and who bought them, that there was such a bad fleet that you mentioned earlier. But those vehicles, blue or white or any color already, do not help you, if you have them, but the response is 50 kilometers from Ljubljana on the highway for an hour and a half. Not at night, not in the snow, but at night at seven. That we're clear. So much about statistics and 10,000 heads of employees would understand that you would also have someone who would be able to draw conclusions from statistics, because then a lot of help would also be able to advise you for better behavior, as well as yourself and your subordinates, especially there in the general police department. From the area of transport safety, I stress once again, I feel uncalled for, and I do not think that any of us here can assess strategies, tactics and methods. However, you know, it's very questionable whether we rely solely on the pursuit of alcoholics for steering, or if we're shopping to say so, and we're using the known radar or gun that we're moving to measure it at will and speed. At the same time, while these patrols are on highways, not on some side roads, "trucks", excuse the expression to be more illustrative, three days park without anything happening to them at bus stations, which were usually built by local communities, and bus stations are used especially by children, school, preschool, seniors, especially those who cannot drive with Slovenian specifics to drive each other's car. On the highways, three days, and there's no miracle, I can prove with the photos that the bus stop is the bus driver. Countless police patrols are passing. To park on the sidewalks or, if you want, on the pedestrian corridors. At the same time, drivers with school-bound children on school trips stop at intersections because they fear offenses to police officers. Since police officers or patrols also stand, excuse the expression, which in cowboy language at bus stations, not with radar or anything like that, with a pair of wheels on the sidewalk, with a pair of bicycles on the cart, at the station as in some American action movies or something. If we look at this in front of us, then strategies, tactics and methods of ensuring transport safety become questionable. In particular, if we continue as it does in some cases, when the sidewalks are not made up of pedestrian and cycling lanes, and some frightened woman with a bicycle rides around the sidewalk, the policeman punishes her. Then the second time she doesn't want to be punished, she drives down the road and she gets hit by a car. These are the facts. These are not fictional cases or any kind of politicization. This could be illustrated in different ways. With regard to security, if we go beyond this transport area, like an illustration - a real event, real. In the parking lot in the middle of the morning a car of private property was damaged. In the vicinity, there are two suspects who are still here as a suspect, and obviously before that, they come from some places where they had nothing to look for and for which the court issued a legal decision not to have access. Since the identity is unknown, the car owner takes photographs, photographs in front of the police, only one person is being accused by the police. The photographs are lost and ultimately the prosecution for lack of evidence - and because the defendant, so honest that as a witness in a court of law, does not consent to testify only to the harm or to accuse one of the suspects, because the other is apparently being protected, the prosecutor, after considering the prosecution, advises the injured person to pursue himself and he does not have the identity of the suspects. Especially not the other one. When he asks for his own photos back, the police say to him, "Document: With regard to your request, we will tell you that these things are mentioned at the police station", I will let go, which "we do not have recorded." Despite the fact that a certificate was issued, as usual at the police station, that it had accepted certain material or evidence. This is also the real security of us citizens - with which it is possible to underpin. Next. It falls within the framework of those findings when the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia determines a certain percentage, I will not cite it, poorly prepared complaints or which need to be rejected because of the inadequate work of individuals in the Police. My point is not general. Far from it. The vast majority of police officers and all those employed in this repressive sector are working properly. True, they are dissatisfied. They are dissatisfied and not making this up from the outside, because the situation between them is such that, in particular, those who have consciously made up their minds to do so when they may have been able to gather another profession. Of course, in the domain of statistics or what you have denied directly before, because of the Schengen reduced number of cops, I will say, at general police stations, of course, here you are wrong, Mr Minister. In the environment I live in, there was a 25-member police station until there was a border. Today, with general police matters or security, officers are involved in 14 police officers. Let us leave the Schengen border, which requires one hundred more or even more, and is a particular problem. That's a fact. And, of course, 40% less employees at a time that puts higher demands ahead of their work, it cannot be replaced, nor can it be replaced by such doing. As far as general security is concerned, this case. Due to the suspicion of a crime occurring on the Internet, a complaint was filed against an unknown perpetrator at a police station. In less than two hours, this application was supplemented by a suspect's full name, even if you want to, with which computer, and a half - I would ask Mr. Sok if you calm down [[...]] And on the first question to the public on the same day, the police administration does not answer, says it is not informed. 24 hours after reporting the incident and exposing the suspect, it seems necessary for the police station commander to stand in front of the camera and quote: "We have conducted a hearing with the suspect, we are collecting further evidence when it is gathered together, and we will press charges or drop the charges against the state prosecutor." But interesting. He immediately adds that at least what we learned from the collection, we can say that there is no subscriber in the background. You know, they were laughing and everybody's still laughing. Because the matter was obviously politically motivated. I won't talk anymore because the criminal procedure is ongoing. Interestingly, the same crime has now been politically motivated, repeated. And at this point, when we're here, it's back online. Normally, with so much silence. Therefore, there is no way that individuals in the police force, or occasionally, should be politicized or serve the political interests of individual political groups. It's not the kind of politicization that the minister mentioned earlier - politicization - it's just the exchange of people after the elections. This is one Slovenian habit, there are other forms, and what I said is one of them. You know, the more you know, the more I'm not going to quote, the part of the marriage and what it's all about. It's similar to slang. A while ago, in the media, the force was interesting when they found some of the prisoners on the Schengen border standing up. That's the picture I have here. This prison has also been the subject of media treatment, except that knowledge of the map, which is 630 kilometers long or about the border with Croatia, is also poor, unfortunately among journalists, so this case is placed in Pomurje, which is not at all true. But an interesting statement is why the prisoner is standing in the air. One of the members of the family to whom this prison is intended is only one Slovenian family, by the way, which must enter the household about 150 meters across the area of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, where there is a normal road. This, of course, has affected them already only by introducing the road and by no means agreeing to step across the neighbouring country, although it is true that in preparing the agreement Račan-Drnovšek this land has been replaced for one parcel in Primorskie - according to a statement by the then working group leader who has been relatively favourable in solving this - so that if this agreement were realised, and they are confident that at least in this part of the land once, this will be a complete Slovenian territory and there will be no problems, even the prisoner will be no longer needed, but part of this family wants to force a particular road through a very demanding terrain, and this is also found in the statement, I quote, admits: "We have promised that until the roads are up, the prisoner will be uplifted. We still don't have the keys, they didn't give away any keys, and now the police are putting it down." End of quote. Neither the journalist nor the affected person say that this is because the dissatisfaction of this family has been misused for political purposes and the promise given to the locals not to tell lice, political actors that they will not have a prisoner or that they will not have to behave as envisaged at the checkpoints with the relevant acts. That's another truth about Schengen. The question is when they learn something like this in Brussels and see how thrilled they will be at that time, and what will be the situation for Slovenians as a country when it is found that individual party local representatives can promise such illogical and unacceptable exceptions. Of course, it has Schengen because I live in less than a three-kilometre belt, not a ten-kilometre belt, along the Schengen border, other faces. You know, not because of those who come across the Schengen border, but because they patrol this area and what they do with the vans, I also read in the media that something is going on in the major cities. Apparently, it's too late for us to do that. Slovaks and other citizens of the newer members of the European Union, who literally, forgive, beg. They're brought in by vans, they've got all kinds of official, unofficial stickers, typical of people with disabilities and the like, and then they're begging for them. And not in the 10km or directly in the border area does the police feel responsible to do something, even to some extent frightened by the public and nervously comfort in such a way as they are citizens of the European Union, the police are unable to do anything to them. Of course, this does not need to be specifically commented on or specifically explained, it is very in itself. Of course, the Schengen has another side. Someone used to talk about clientelism in the police department. I'd say otherwise. Unfortunately, because of the unemployment and disfavor of this difficult profession, as a policeman's profession in any case, a lot of Styrians and ours from northeast Slovenia have been employed, but these boys and men are practically every day in the drive to Kočevje and far longer. At the same time, they drive from the surroundings of Ljubljana to Styria. We could say it in concrete terms. Employment. Of course, if he does not have a suitable botre or if he is not prepared to give any benefits to any of the responsible, at least the replacement requests when agreed - employees in the police, those travelling from Styria to Kočevje, and those travelling from the surroundings of Ljubljana to Styria - are to replace the state to also save some on travel costs, and in particular they would be less exposed to all the negative consequences of travel and would also be easier to carry out their jobs or duties in such important matters as the border. Well, let me finish. I didn't want to be in the introduction, we were told that we were almost nothing - from a fellow Member. I would only ask you that, even though we are in politics, there is almost nothing: it is nothing or it is different from nothing. Because it was obvious to us: we were here for two or two weeks. Of yours, colleague, you were 4 out of 29, which is less than a week. And at least from that point of view, you had no right to make any observations. It is, you know, anyway, one way or another, "almost nothing" and consider it, because if it was "almost nothing", we wouldn't be able to speak. My colleague Gantar said that they agreed that we would replace "almost nothing" with those who are "almost nothing" and are not present. I don't like to argue, but that's all I have to warn you about. If there's anything you want to say. I apologize to my colleague Bebler because I know that she doesn't need any lawyer, and I don't want to be her lawyer either, but because she wasn't and she's in the debate, her colleague also told her that she belongs to a client who in the past had control of repressive organs in the unilateral system. Dear young colleague, you know, I'd like to teach you something. In that unilateral system, when police were called militia and all militia members of that party, the fact was that in 1986 we were able to replace representatives of civil society or force the replacement of the commander and his assistant by allowing for political action by seizing material when they were rebuilding the parish church in the local community, which is a monument to the first category. This happened in 1986, and so do not push today when an individual policeman, who wants to be liked by his officials, does nothing if he openly takes his stand on the side of a political option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u72	Mr. Koren, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u73	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u74	But there's no replica. Because you weren't mentioned. If Mrs. Irgle asked, I'd say yes, or Mrs. Bebler, yes, but you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u75	Then procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u76	We continue the debate, Mr Koren. Mr. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, Mr. Secretary and Government representatives. First of all, it must be said that there is nothing to say about interpretation today, and I think there are some of these previous speakers. But anyway. The introduction of interpolation is unfounded and pointless. This has actually been demonstrated by today's debate. However, this was a very nice and good opportunity to present the work of the ministry and the minister in the past period and I think he has made good use of it. Minister Mate does his job well and is one of the better ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you nicely. After all, we are in Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Gulic, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u79	On behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u80	You can't, Mr. Gulic, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u81	Why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u82	Because there were only two names for the proposer, namely Mr Školč [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u83	Mr. Klavora, ten of us are interpelling candidates, and I think if you'd listen to me a little bit, I would have made it easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u84	Only two signed applicants have been confirmed by the College. That was the conclusion of the College. I will stick to this, as it has been concluded at the College, as it has been so far and, Mr Gulič, I cannot give you my word as a proposaler. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u85	Mr Vice President, the College did not decide on this. That is not true, we have reported, as we have said in the Rules of Procedure, from our Group of Members three colleagues who have signed, and not those who can be involved in the debate. Please bring the record to the College, if that's what you said. No one answered in writing that this could not be done as we did in the previous two interpolations. Please give your colleague Gulic a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u86	I've been informed that the College has not confirmed this, and I'm going to stick to it. And I can't do it once, like this. Please, if you will follow me and Mr Borut Saiovic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the debate is becoming more interesting and varied. I would like to take advantage of this debate, not for the calculation or for the attack on the Minister himself, but to point him out from this place to some of the things that are causing us a lot of problems in local communities. They could, however, be placed under a common denominator: a resolution on a national security strategy. While we have a whole bunch of papers and documents here, there is no doubt that there is an increasing feeling in the home environment, especially among citizens and citizens, that their security is diminishing. The main reasons for this would also be: violence in restaurants, increased number of road fatalities, including robberies, which are often on the agenda. In this story it is not a matter of individual excesses and I think it would be, the minister has talked about it quite extensively, prevention and prevention should be given quite a bit of attention. I just think that given the state that it is, it's not all enough. The fact is, we don't have enough cops. I mean, if I see them every day on the field, I don't have any problems, even the opposite, I want more, because when they're there, things are better. Like a police station like Tržič, she used to have over thirty people, and today there are only twelve. The boys are good, they work, they're successful, but they have the same problem as all of us together, and at the same time, of course, they can only be present in one place. And now there's another important issue that concerns this local security issue. When we talked about the law on municipal government, it was said that it would have no effect on the budgets of local communities. Now we see quite the opposite, that the trend in this country is that the presence of the police is declining and that municipal officials are expected to have more and I have to say from the ground that the direction of this solution, in order to replace municipal officials in these areas, is simply not appropriate. Today, a lot of people have no respect, no respect, no respect, no respect, no respect for the citizens, no respect for the police, no respect for the municipal officials, no disentanglement of other stories, of course. Today you see in the newspaper that the Municipality of Ljubljana is looking for 16 editors to meet all the challenges and problems. I think, Minister, that you must not let this task, even though it might be easier for the police and better, come into the hands of people who are professionally, physically or otherwise less likely to be involved in these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, Your Honor. Much has already been said today, but it was somehow possible to conclude that it was probably only true that the main purpose of the majority of the applicants was to propose a request for interpretation, the malignment of the minister and, of course, the government at home and abroad. This has already become a practice in Slovenia. Recently, there has also been some kind of diplomat using, of course, funds owned by a country computer or telephone to issue documents with which [[...]] [[background speaking]] I didn't make up this subject, so I'm sorry, which is also something that Slovenia can deal with. [[...]] However, if this is the case with the Minister of State of the Republic of Slovenia, then some say it is a scandal. So, defending the interests of the state you represent, you're a minister in this government, is a scandal because you insulted the neighbouring country because they have different opinions and opinions. Excuse me, that minister who is aware of which country he represents will defend the position of this country. And don't say it's a scandal if the minister defends the position of the state whose minister he is. That the tendency of most of the applicants of this request was in this context, let me just read to you what was stated in the announcement of the interpretation: "Let us only remember the case of the Strojan family in Ambrus, where he himself is," the Minister suggested, "take the initiative in solving the case." It's beautifully written, "take the initiative in solving the case." That is, if you want to solve the problem, take the initiative, then it's a matter of interpretation. I don't know, it's something completely new to me, and it's confused with every logic. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's right that we all know black, we just sometimes get carried away, so we have to say it more than once. What ever happened in Ambrus that the minister had to stand up for himself? If there was nothing, then the Minister wouldn't have done something like that. What was that basic cause, the underlying motive for all that was going on in that place? The main thing was that the landlord on his own property was brutally beaten, and for three months he fought for life in the Clinical Center. And what is most shocking about this matter is that the interpellations' proponents have not expressed any words of regret that this person has come to be in such a state. There was nothing to hear! And obviously, because then the interpolation came for the opposite direction, some people seem to think that in Slovenia some have the right to fight, and others that they must suffer and live in fear. And after all attempts at reconciliation, one of the members of the Strojan family said, and I will quote: first of course he said what he thought about these locals, that I will not read to you, because it seems a little below the level, and then he said that he would burn everything, that the Gardener would burn and that everyone would run, and then he said something about Dolenjska himself. So he's still spreading the matter. And this is a serious matter, such statements must be taken seriously. If someone is trying or some organisation is trying, which is, of course, within the jurisdiction of the state, to cool the matter down, to calm down, then this is ripe for interpolation. I don't know, puzzled with logic. Would you like to keep on, as it is called, burning on this hot fire? I don't think so. And if now, as you wrote down, the minister has put himself at the forefront of solving this problem, then he must be convicted, so that the request for interpretation is. I think it's the other way around. If someone wanted to solve such a hot problem, that's pretty good. And we might wish there were more of them who wanted to save themselves, for there were many who did not want the problem to be solved. That is true, the people of Ambrus, who sent a petition to the National Assembly, said that 15 years of permanent property, home invasions, violence and fear of their own lives by the Strojan family and visitors to their camp felt that they were inferior citizens, but they also said that the police and the interior minister had done everything they could to make the dispute worse. And that's why, of course, the minister was also thanked and the signatures were 959. At the same time, they point out that both this family and them want an equal and decent life. Emphasis shall be placed on an equal footing where the same rules apply to all where the same obligations apply to all where all the same obligations apply. And now some of you with interpretation point out that one has more rights than the other. Because you reward those who did what caused all this. From this you can also understand that with the request for interpretation you are also looking at this, just as you see that those who violate human rights are rewarded, that I do not say anything else. And one more thing. I think it's right to point out that the group left Ambrus alone. That the Strojans left alone. Because they're telling the truth. They left on their own! Most interpolation signatories promote intolerance, and this is unreasonable. That's unreasonable! And if someone stood up to calm the situation, that's to say hello. And now another case to back up what I said at the outset was possible mud and nothing else. One of the sights is also related to security in guest restaurants, in nightclubs. Of course, we all regretted what happened there, but I will quote you again. In Slovenian printed media there were large headlines just before those events: "Slovenia is dangerously approaching the police state", "Police Desant on Global". We know what Global is. Panic over the city, it's global again. And then, of course, in the framework of the black forecast "New Desant, Pendreks and Buster in Discotheques," it was like Vukovar, and it was also written in an article that police officers who came to control turned on the lights. When they came to control, they lit the lights. Yeah, what kind of a place is it that cops turned on the lights? That's against them. And also, "Police occupied the Ljubljana Club." What can we conclude from all of this? That someone with the controls that the police probably carried out on certain calls or requests or data to make something wrong happens, that's how the police laugh. Critics of their work. It is trying to show that Slovenia is a police state and smiles about public order and peace. On the other hand, now that something has happened, it is obvious to the minister that he is too mild to act. We know what we talked about and what we discussed on the Internal Policy Committee, where we have discussed all of this in a similar way. I think it would have been time for us to make up our minds and stick to some kind of system. If the police are too much, then let's be like this all the time. If they're too few, let's say that, and let's keep it in front of our eyes. It would be time for you to have a position, which you then also advocate, to hold to it that you know exactly what to do. On the basis of such views, the minister, whoever, doesn't know what's right now, what to do. Is it too little, too much, or is it right? This adjustment to the current situation, as it suits, is simply not healthy. That's why I hope to say that the interpretation is not real and I just don't understand it. But it is certainly harmful to Slovenia and obviously has a poor intention of mutilating certain institutions. I can even say, I hope to state that it's pretty twisted because it's purely mud. And it is sad that some do not choose the means to achieve a certain goal. Some of the press circuits were written at the time of the interpolation, a few days later, that it probably didn't make sense and that the shot was empty. That's how it was written in the media. We could have read about that. I might even agree more with those who say that the requirement for interpolation is just a shot in the knee, with a double tube. Personally, I hope that more such things will be settled, thanks to the minister. There will be no harm if the Minister stands up first, of course, in accordance with the rules that he will be in the first kinds of rescue. Finally, we need such ministers, who hope to do something, something concrete and not just hide in some diplomatic cellophane. As for the time that we've been told that we have more than the proponents have, I'd say that's the end of it. It is already so that sometimes we have to be told ten times that they can hear. Only to take a stand and want to understand. Of course, I will not support this request for interpolation. But I gave an explanation. Of course, there would be more arguments, but I think my colleagues will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. However, Mr Kumer, before I give you the floor, I would like to say further to the question of the correctness of my procedure and also to the answer on behalf of the proposer, Dr Pavel Gantar, yesterday, that, on behalf of the speaker of the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Matei, he would like to ask that, on behalf of the motioner, we also allow Mr Anderlic and Gulic to perform in the debate alongside him and Mr Školč. Of course within 60 minutes. They didn't get that answer. She didn't explain it to me, ma'am. Athelski's now, but before I held the meeting, we discussed this with Mr Plevel, who is the assistant secretary-general, who told me that it had been concluded both at one of the previous College meetings to speak only on behalf of the group or in this case two. I'll stick to it. If you disagree, start this conversation tomorrow at the College. Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u91	Mr Vice-President, I ask you to quote the Rule of the Rules of Procedure in which you explained this Article of the Rules of Procedure, which says that, on behalf of the applicants, the applicants may also, in their agreement, present within the time available, the views of the applicants. On the basis of what article do you reject the possibility of not giving Mr Gulic the opportunity to have two other representatives of this possibility announced? On the basis of what Article of the Rules of Procedure? It wasn't the college's decision that we couldn't talk. The announcement was made, as was the case with the former Minister, who then had to resign, and he was doing well, as Mr Drobnič said today. That way, I see no reason for you to decide so willingly now who is allowed and who is not allowed to speak on behalf of the proposer. Please quote the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u92	This is totally inappropriate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u93	Please quote the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u94	Can I have a word? It's totally inappropriate for you to read this to me and ask me to give my word now. If I stick to what they told me and what was agreed upon at the College. I don't know which article. Please. I can't find another word like guessing. Allow us to continue our work and debate. If you don't, I'm gonna interrupt this session and I'm gonna ask the college to call to discuss this. Please, you know, you're not the first day in here, what it looks like, and I think let's decide if we end this session, break it off and continue it after we continue it. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u95	I would ask you, Mr President, as I have previously asked you to obtain a decision from the College which has decided on this. I don't remember that. It's not within the College's jurisdiction to make a decision once and for all. For this meeting, we have notified three interested debaters from our group. Parliament's practice in this reference was that all those who were reported could be debated. You refer to Mr Plewell, but you do not believe us as Members. Please get a meritable conclusion from the College, which allows you not to give us a word. It's worth more than just agreeing to it because of a beautiful figure, not giving us the words. Parliamentarians here have been vilified, if they are concerned about what, they cannot defend themselves, they cannot further explain their views. I think there's something else behind you to just defend the minister, even when it's not necessary, because he can defend himself better than you and Mr Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u96	Okay, I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u97	Dear Members. We continue with the adjourned session. I'd like to inform you that we've been talking about what I've been talking about before, so that's the position. My position was correct, and it was confirmed by the President of the National Assembly right now in the interview. At one of the meetings it was so concluded, that was the agreement, we will stick to it, and I think that we will also discuss it at the first meeting of the College of the National Assembly or on a business committee. However, that there will be no ill will and that we will proceed with the work, exceptionally, Mr Anderlič and Mr Gulic, have a word. Please. Mr. Anderlich, please, you have the floor and if you're so good and you respond to my request.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u98	I respond by giving Mr Gulic a word, because he signed up early, and you took it away from him, as you know, and then it was just me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u99	I'll let you take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u100	We have a deal. Mr President, it is embarrassing for me, because in fact there is always such a complication when I want to speak and you are presiding. I guarantee you it's not a personal matter, and I hope it's not on your side either.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u101	I absolutely believe it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u102	I'd respond to what Minister Mate used to say. Today, Minister Mate has repeatedly said that he will only respond to what he is told is illegal or unconstitutional. That's not true. It is necessary to look at the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where in Article 118, I will now be as pedantic as he is, it says that at least ten Members can initiate interpretation in the National Assembly on the work of the government or of the individual minister. This is said not to be unconstitutional or illegal, but to the work of the government or of the individual minister. That is why all questions need to be answered. In Article 119, however, it is true when the National Assembly of the Government or the Minister before the Constitutional Court charges violations of the Constitution or laws. It is clear, therefore, that we can talk here today about the full work of the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior. That's one thing I wanted to say. But the other thing that I don't think really belongs to the National Assembly is obituaries and toasts, as we've heard before. Mr Grill is a real obituary, told Mr Matthew and, of course, Mr Janc a toast with an invitation to desertion. That's really inappropriate, and no one broke it off. With regard to what I asked, however, I would ask Mr Matthew for an answer, although now there is no transfer which he has just adopted in the last hour, which law, which has enabled him to act on his own discretion, which says he must never, when he used the Institute of Enforcement for the Police in Ambrus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Someone else would like a word from the proponents. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u104	Only in the part where Mr Petan explained how he saw that the Minister of the Interior should intervene in a specific case. In two cases, we report that he broke the law in the part where he took over the powers of the Police Director. And you can probably undisputedly figure that out from those readings. One of the cases I'm not going to cite is maliciously interpreting what's written in the interpolation. But if I looked at in Chapter 4, I would also see him as aware that Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, was responsible for the violation of Article 2 of the Police Act, because, in May 2005, he, first of all, passed the chain of command, the Director-General of the Police, the Director-General of the Crime Service and so on, ordered that a criminalist, employed by the criminal police of the General Police, was informed by the public of the reasons for the criminal charges against the suspected crime. So there's concrete evidence, something you've already explained, and you'll probably still be. But you, Mr. Petan, are abusing that this is something that is actually clear that it must, and gratefully that the minister must do so, even though it is past the Police Act, where it clearly determines who has something to do by law. That's why it seems to me that you've been engaged both in this case and in another case. Of course, I don't see the Minister engaging in all his best efforts in accordance with the law, the constitution and so on. But to get past the line of command and the police are a standalone organization within the authorities, but as you understand it, it's probably a minister, but not a minister, but also a prime minister who, by the way, promised a client colleague to the mayor that he would handle this with the police. That's how it goes with you. But no, we have the law, we have the authority, and everyone has to carry out what is imposed on him or what he has the authority to do. And in that case, it was about what I said, not what you're here for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u105	Mr. Petan, the replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Mr. Anderlich, if you'd listened to me, you'd have noticed that I said, "It's a good thing if someone wanted to solve things and put himself first under the rules." That was exactly what they said. I think I even said literally, "under the rules." I didn't suggest anything else, extramarital behavior. You've either listened poorly and you haven't noticed this "in the framework of the rules" or you're being misinterpreted. It doesn't matter to me, I said so and check the tape and you'll be able to make sure I said it exactly like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer. I'm sorry you finally got your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've got some kind of an accident in spite of that. Not because of this complication that it was, but because before me there is always one of the MPs or the MPs who somehow wipes me out of the concept that I was going to say. And it has been repeated once again, once again, that those who say anything critical about this account are, of course, those who defile the Ministry, the Government, Slovenia, perhaps the European Union, if someone goes across the sea into America and so on and so forth. I'd like to say the following. Even all those who wonder about the interpretation, why the interpretation now is not the right time, and so on, I recommend to you, above all, from the largest party of the SDS, that you read the chronological interpretation of the interpretation of your party president, who explained this well in the National Assembly when he was still an opposition member, the current opposition, then rules most at one of the interpretations. At that time, he also used certain legal levers, bases, interpretations, and so forth, and we would not be wondering today. And I'm going to make this very simple. In a very simple way, I'll say it with his words. This is a broader parliamentary issue that requires public, broader consideration in the National Assembly. And there's nothing else about interpolation. You don't always have to look at it and take it from this negative angle. That is why, of course, I will follow the rules of the opposition Member. The government boasts, ministers boast for yourselves, coalition MPs praise ministers and the government, and it would be very unusual for me to praise the minister or the government. That is why, of course, I will take advantage of these few minutes and, above all, I will be critical of the work of the Minister and the Ministry. Now that I have my word and I can say it publicly and the Minister listens to me. I praise the minister when he is not around me and commend him to many. But of course I won't tell him that way. If we go in order. If, in the previous term, we have been in some way critical and we have said, and the whole mandate has been devoted to the fact that the director of police is also trying to control the ministry besides the police, unfortunately, we have now the opposite situation. When the Minister of the Interior is definitely in charge of the police. Here I will remain consistent and principled because in 2005, when the law on police was changing, I spoke about this in this House. I have also asked the Minister twice on this subject, and I remain consistent, and I have been repeating my position today since then that the Minister of the Interior is not a police commander even after the amended Police Act. He cannot be a police commander as a professional, independent professional organisation within the composition of the Ministry of the Interior. That is why she has no right to interfere with her operational work. And I think it would be normal for me to sit in these benches with the minister today, because we talk a lot about the police. And even in Ambrus, which you're talking about a lot, at the time, where the minister was standing with the megaphone, he should stand and talk to the police director. The minister could be with you. As were other ministers in Ambrus and Grosuplje. He wasn't just the Minister of the Interior. He was also the president of the government. The President of the Government was with the team in 2004 before the LDS and ZLSD government and in 2000 he was later as Prime Minister in Grosuplje, Ambrus, where this Roma family lives. So again. And this interpretation, or this interference of the minister in the work of the police and the ministry, is for me the harsh involvement of politics in police professional work. And, of course, it has the consequence that it is the political control of the police in human resources and other aspects. That is why my claim, which I repeat today, is that everything is not as beautiful and pure in the police as we can read in the Minister's reply to the interpretation and today in the oral reply or the Minister's addition when he was complementing the written reply in the interpretation. I do not believe that the situation in the police is so arranged, it is not as harmless as it was written and spoken orally today. The general situation in the police is rather bad than good. Why is it worse than good? Because the people who have been employed in the police department for the past three years because of fear of reassignment, early retirement and so on, I am not going to mention it, they don't trust each other much. If they don't trust each other, then they don't trust those things with their assumptions. And today, the vehement defense of this interpellation by the minister confirms this thesis that it is likely that this fear within the police ranks is valid and existing, as it is heard from these same police types. So the police control of the Minister of Internal Affairs over police personnel and investigation procedures is a violation of the civilisation and democratic rule on the professional independence of the police. That's what I said in 2005 and that's what I'm saying right now, backed up by a lot of things that are also in interpolation in 2008. The introduction of two police, one at the Ministry of Interior and the other in the police force, is a constitutionally controversial duplication of the organisation itself. The allocation of powers, as specified, was quoted today by the minister himself, including section 22 of the Police Act. This allocation of police powers exposes the police to the police. It is said that the ministry, as well as its resources, is not only a minister, it is of course others who are in charge of the Ministry of the Interior and with police powers for certain resources, it is a duplication of the same police work. And it's a direct link between politics and this independent professional police shit. And such a strategy and the way in which the ministry and the police, as an expert body in the Ministry of the Interior, have been operating, has a consequence, and I am moving on to this second of my favorite subject, which I have been talking about for three years now, that corruption, non-pressive and clientistic actions are hidden under an extremely thick blanket or carpet that has been built here for the past three years. Let me just remind you that in the spring and summer of 2004, this Slovenian Parliament was talking only about customerism and corruption. At that time, three extraordinary meetings were held by those Members and Members of Parliament who were sitting in the National Assembly. One of these was also the interpretation against the then Internal Minister Rad Bohinc. It was not only a problem that had been deleted at the time, even then it was clear to him about clienteleism and corruption that the ministry and the police were not effective enough to do so. And three years after you've been so critical, you've been given power, executive power, resources, power, you could put things on your feet, just like you said back then. However, if today we also listen through the statistics of the Ministry of Interior and Police, as if there is no corruption in Slovenia. Tell me one big case or two big cases where the police and the D.A. either got an epilogue or got some final evaluation. We'll talk about this at a special point tomorrow. But I would like to point out that this is part of the area where, from my point of view, the Ministry has not done the task that it has had and has only committed itself to all the discussions on the abolition of this independent anti-corruption commission and has said, we will do these things. Today, of course, we can see that these things are not done. When the minister said they did more with the same number of human resources than before. Yeah listen, I'd be bragging about it in three years if I came from the same ministry two new ministries. We have the Ministry of Local Self-Government, we have the Ministry of Public Administration, these are all areas of work previously carried out in the Ministry of the Interior and we have transport security, which went from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport. But all the personnel from the Ministry of the Interior didn't move into these three ministries. It is said that more human resources are now available and it is clear that the final results of the work must be great. This is just a kind of replica of the Minister's performance, because he, of course, praised it in this regard. Then I have two very specific questions to ask the Minister. You have also talked a lot to others today about the elections of Slovenian citizens from abroad. I'm really curious about all the other things you've been saying: Were the high government officials really at this point, or were they, or would they go to Australia, Canada, and what would they do about these electoral directories there? Today, the minister, I quote, said they had accurate records in this regard. Then why do we always talk about these things and make some kind of trouble out of it? There are precise records of these electoral directories. I wonder if anyone has gone abroad and what he's doing there, or if he's doing something about these directories. And another question. You know that last year, and in pre-Last year, many people were fired for counterfeiting diplomas from the state administration, including more than 80 people who were fired from the Slovenian Army for counterfeit diplomas. I only know three cases. I don't know the rest. But I ask: Was the practice of these more than 80 former members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, most of them supposed to have gone to these so-called security services, which we are talking about a lot, and did the Ministry of the Interior grant licences to those same people who were fired in the State Administration for these reasons as security guards in individual security services? Does it exist? I know three specific cases, but I don't know about all the other 80. And these are two very specific questions I would like to ask if the Minister can answer me. And in the end, in terms of traffic safety. There has been a lot of talk, but I insist that there has been a mistake in the road traffic law, when, due to the snags of 7,000 tolars, we have discontinued the technical checks on vehicles every four years or those of 10 every two years, but I am sure that this integrity of motor vehicles has a very important role and consequences for these statistics as well as road traffic accidents. Tyres, brakes and so on are important things, and I think that, given how we are citizens, motor vehicle drivers are self-disciplined for being one of the root causes. I still think it's one of the mistakes that was made. And another mistake. I still believe that this road safety area has nothing to look for at the Transport Ministry, but this should remain within the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you. In this mandate, we have clearly interpellations against ministers who, when they took over their jobs, came across their functions within the ministries into a major mess and tried to bring it into the legal and normal contexts over time. After this salary, of course, Minister Matthew could even be proud of this intervention, or be it because it means that he has not begun to regulate the situation at the Ministry of the Interior. When this government reached into the privileges of some sacred cows in Slovenia who thought they were eternal, there was a great revolution. Just remember the Owl and the betrayal of state secrets, or now that the interpolation has begun. In some ways, we can say the words already heard or already seen when we list this interpolation. Interpellation is built on a variety of records, press articles, including those published in the yellow press, and it is interesting that in Slovenia the system, when certain articles are produced and then based on these articles, is written by interpretations. This reminds me of some great Korean criminalist, all well - known, who in his early years in Koroška himself wrote anonymous letters and then followed these anonymous characters. Of course, the prosecution's criminal charges dropped slightly. And now to the eyes in the interpolation. One of the basics is that it is police politicization, the influence of politics on the police. These findings are about ten years too late. Ecclatic politicisation, the use of police in political and political functions, the use of police as tools and weapons in political accounts was with the Vič-Holmec affair. And then, of course, there was a reason for successful interpolation. During this time, there is also the case of the illegal records of journalist Tomaž Ranc. And according to hard data, the police wanted to get another reporter's phone records back then. The prosecution did not agree to this and, of course, the question is whether they did not get these copies illegally at the time. One of the findings is also an indication of the poor success of the fight against corruption. Of course, corruption has not started with this government and corruption will not end with this government either. Corruption has been a major problem in Slovenia, and it will certainly be in the future. Of course, we can all just fight and we just want this corruption to be as little as possible. In doing so, he is pleased to forget the organisation Transers International, which for 2007 placed Slovenia in 27th place, among 179 countries. The year before was Slovenia 28th, 2005 31st, 2004 31st, and so on. Therefore, according to these indicators, Slovenia is approaching those cleaner countries in the world. Of course, it's one of the indicators. Not the only one, but it's certainly important. With regard to GRECA data, it is, of course, important to note a slight interest. The president of GRECA is Drago Kos and the president of the anti-corruption commission is Drago Kos. It's just, by the way. Regarding the opposition's perceptions that the police-local community partnership is missing. The direct withdrawal of police from certain local communities took place in the mid-1990s. At that time, for example, I speak for Koroška, for the Mežíska Valley, they shut down the police station in Montenegro, Koroška and Mežica. The first police station is in Ravna, Koroška. And then, in 2001, when they tried to take me out, it took a police officer from Raven to Mizica for 37 minutes. At that time, the director of the Korean police, who is paraded around here today in a Jager uniform, spoke publicly about how successful the Korean police are to have a response time of 11 minutes. 11 minutes. It took 37 minutes to reach me. Even this urgent intervention time of 12 minutes, which was discussed today, I think it is still quite large and could be reduced by a different police organisation. It was mentioned that the bank’s bank’s robbery was not resolved. Of course, it's not solved, it's not solved by a lot of robberies. In the mid-1990s, at the end of the year at the eve of New Year's holidays, there was a robbery in Dravograd. That's when the top of the Korean police went to the Slovenian Mountains to get wine for the New Year's celebration. At that time a robbery took place in Dravograd, and this robbery has not yet been investigated. And I could count it. Let me conclude with principle opinion No 175: Interpellation is modestly prepared and thus fully corresponds to the definition of political black construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-welcome, distinguished Minister, Vice-President, colleague and colleague. Interpellation as an instrument for the control of the opposition today appears to be an opportunity and an opportunity for us to discuss people in the National Assembly, in particular the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mate, which is clear to him that, with various changes, both normative and human resources, he has subordinated the policy of one option and that the police are subordinated to the political objectives pursued by the current authority. Regrettably, interpellations have also been joined by some who have signed a non-aggression pact during the Presidency of the European Union, indicating at least duality. Interpellation signatories, as one of the applicants says, are on the other side. They believe in restraint and self-restraint. The professionality of the police, that democratically elected authorities have the task of managing the state and not owning it. They demand the Minister's discharge, because they believe that the consequences of the violations have been difficult to remedy, which also poses a threat to the people of Slovenia, human rights violations, police politicisation, poorer road safety and more. I will not discuss specific developments in the case of the Lipa and Global discotheque, as regards safety on our roads, the events in the case of Plut, the Strojan family and the electoral directory during the presidential elections, because there has been a lot of talk about this. I regret that there have been fatalities, but I believe it is the Minister, the Ministry and the police, that they have acted lawfully and in accordance with their responsibilities. The Minister responded to the evidence, the evidence, the data, the dates. Accidents and unforeseen events have taken place and will continue to take place, and the authorities are obliged to act. And she acted within her powers, but the Minister cannot be objectively responsible for this. It seems that this interpretation is a criticism of the government and the coalition that it is something the opposition wants to hang dissatisfaction and criticism about the matters that we have already discussed in the National Assembly and will continue to do. We are aware that we are trying to resolve them and improve them, as well as the Minister, that, within the framework of his powers, he also has a duty to local communities and citizens themselves. However, I am convinced that the mood of most citizens is different. When I drove to Ljubljana this morning and listened to Radio Slovenia, the editor asked listeners and listeners whether they would monitor the Minister's interpretation. And most people understood interpolation as a guess of opposition. People are smart, and they know what they're after. Indeed, events have taken place that are regrettable and cannot be completely resolved in the future. But it's not the minister's fault. It is particularly important for citizens and citizens to feel safe in their country. Research by the Faculty of Applied Social Studies has shown that the confidence of citizens in the police has increased, i.e. 76 percent of respondents feel safe. Despite the fact that the police are a repressive body, citizens and citizens, we feel an ever-increasing democracy in their kind. The police are more accessible, more professional, more polite, willing to cooperate, their behaviour and their procedures are less aggressive than we were before. However, I think it is particularly important that much of this has been done by the control, which is increasingly systematic and clearly defined. Clearly, however, there will be a number of other things to be done. However, it is important to highlight some other areas where the Ministry and the Ministry in particular have shown themselves. This is the removal of car stickers and the good preparation and implementation of the Schengen border, which also has an important impact on the safety of citizens and citizens. But there are no other areas that are neglected. Amendments and additions to the law for better work and organisation, for greater security, regulation of different registers, electronic connection and computer-managed procedures, as we feel the citizens of Slovenia. The Minister has demonstrated by his work that he is aware of the importance of maintaining a high standard of democracy and the protection of freedoms and respect for human rights. He showed that, in accordance with the law and powers, as a functionary, I am taking policy as a responsibility for the common good, for the welfare of citizens and citizens, and in these efforts I am supporting it, so I will vote against the Interpellation against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. When I looked at the minister at 6: 00 p.m. and listened to him, I wondered exactly where he had so much condition that he had been sitting for almost nine hours and had the strength to do this one-hour lab. And I've just compared it with Minister Erjavac, and he's training well, and he's building a condition to run the Defence Ministry, and that's very similar to what Minister Mate does. But later I found that I was wrong, and I found that Mr Minister calculated that this was the last hour of television broadcasting to RTV Slovenia, which he successfully used to be in the central media. Later he repeated this in two more interviews, which I happened to see working outside for both media outlets. The fact is, he's good at communicating with the public, but one is communication with the public, and the other is credibility. One of the Members, I think Mr Drobnič, said that Mr Mate had used it to present the good work of the Ministry. So this is the opinion of the coalition MP. I do not think Mr Mate has convinced the opposition Members. His words seem convincing, but there are many reasons why you doubt the sincerity and validity of those words. But I believe it was prepared by his associates, and I believe he can't know everything, and he's confident of what his associates are suggesting to him. Of course I'll try to comment on that a little bit. In his response to the interpolation, Mr Mate wrote on page 36, regarding the deterioration of traffic safety, that since 2001, the number of motor vehicles registered in Slovenia has increased by 17%, that in Slovenia the number of driving licences has increased by 9% since 2001, that the length of the motorway network has doubled, that the number of trucks on the border has increased and so on and so on. We all know that, Mr. Minister. However, the problem is how the police or the Ministry of the Interior responded to these developments. This assumption that you're talking about yourself. That's exactly what the problem with your work and the ministry as a whole is that response is wrong. So either as a compensation or as a measure against these findings, you have made the work worse and made worse on the staff structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as you have transferred one part of the road safety sector to the Ministry of Transport, and one part you have taken over perfidically, under the terms "studded" by Minister Žagar, that he has decided to take over, in accordance with the Law on Security and Public Order and Peace, and on the red tape service, that is, instead of the police, the Minister who is a member of the local self-government, and therefore this is one part of the local community. In fact, you took one step to get the police out of those areas where it was more successful than it is now. Anyone who's supposed to do this for them. So in the Ministry, last time we had a debate on the Road Traffic Safety Act. Mr. Zerjav sat here with us. So he was very poor in an area that you, as the interior minister, should know better about, which your body in the composition - the police, should know much better than the Minister of Transport. And he had to defend the Road Safety Act. This is a confirmation that the move was wrong. Mr Žagar, as I said, took over the task of transferring part of the provision of public order by allowing municipal officials to take over these powers. Because this has happened because this has not been properly prepared and I also think that this is not an appropriate solution, for almost a year in no local environment has the editors been seen, since they are mostly all in training. Thus, for some time now, every major city or village is, in fact, without proper monitoring of security in this area, because editors are being trained. Of course, they are trained because they were completely incompetent to assume these powers and those tasks entrusted to them by law. And in Maribor, this results in cameras showing up instead of people, you were talking about the head of the security environment. Cameras to determine what's going on in specific areas. We will slowly enter the same position as London, which is all intertwined with cameras. However, Slovenia is a small country, Slovenia does not have these conditions or such circumstances as London, it does not deserve monitoring with cameras. He deserves some police relationship or me, the director, that's a man with these people, not a camera monitor. And that's why the mayors decide to replace people. By doing so, we would have travelled this fate or this path, as I said before, instead of with people who were formerly leaders of the security environment. Speaking of which, in 1996 this step was actually taken wrongly. True, the previous ministers had the wrong starting point. However, you have had three years to recover this condition, or improve, or by some measures replace some bad moves by abolishing the security environment. All of us who are slightly older know what it meant to feel and know that someone who in some environment is monitoring events, knowing all the nests or crime or these drug groups, or breaking up in some localities. That's not what it is today. The police are moving away from it today. And that's our common problem, not just yours and not just ours. When I talk about traffic, it's just as a result of everything you've managed to achieve, or what's no longer the role of the police, that we who are driving from Maribor to Ljubljana are no longer driving in the morning. It is your fault that I have to sleep on Sunday night, or Monday night in Ljubljana, because I simply do not hope to risk the morning on Monday, or Tuesday, I am speaking of course in a parable. It's Minister Mate's fault there's no police on this road, Mr. Mate. On this road from Domžal to Ljubljana in every day standing columns due to accidents caused by drivers, there is no police car that would at least give some clear signal that someone would react to that blue color and slow down speed to get to this black point of the Slovenian road cross, ready to go wild. The fact is, every morning is stalled, and if someone resists the guilt, then he'll have to explain who's to take the blame. However, not drivers who are all in a row involved in accidents or accidents. And you can't convince me of anything else, that there's too little attention to life on the roads dedicated to your side, that's the problem. I know. Yesterday I drove back to Ljubljana. As soon as there was a cop in front of me, I didn't go over the speed that was allowed. Sometimes it's "I'm shoving" him. And that is why this absence of police vehicles, or constant controls, is not occasional actions. Occasional actions don't cure things. Occasional actions are also not suitable for foreign trucks. These occasional actions do not bear results. It must be constantly present. That's what we're gonna need to know. Not to mention that in the conduct of the Government, amending the Road Safety Act was more about cosmetic corrections. You know we've lifted the technical checks stickers, reduced the fines for motorists, marked the vehicles for protocol purposes, changed the deadlines for the technical inspections of new vehicles. However, we have given much thought or thought to how drastic punishments should be exacerbated, and these are supposed to be the right solutions. This is a drawback because a move has been made to transfer traffic safety, road safety by the police, only at the Ministry of Transport and this coordination obviously does not work and not to "cash". So one aspect of this, which is why I think this interpretation is in place and I'm not taking the lead, yes, it's a game or a play. Interpellation is a legitimate act, and today we do it in the coalition or in the opposition. There's been a lot of talk today about police personnel skills. Either way, I believe the minister has to defend and defend this human resources skills, or his people. However, it is necessary to be objective, Minister. The fact is, even in this police force, some kind of fear felt by state or public servants in this Slovenia. You know one report entitled 'Responsibility and policy boundaries in the police field'. I believe you don't need to quote him. But there's only one thing he thinks of Members and the public. It says: "The loyalty of civil servants is not a blind obedience to the ruling politics at the same time, but, above all, loyalty to the state, its constitution and laws. If a civil servant is placed in a situation where he has to choose between the ideology of superiors on the one hand, and the constitution and the law of the State on the other, it is always a danger to violate both." I don't know if you're aware. With transfers, with redeployments, with the recruitment of new people, the ignorant and incompetent management of such responsible positions, it has occurred that some people feel fear and this is evident in the police. And, of course, understanding from your point of view is different. It's just from ours. And this same task, or this report, also deals with one analysis, which was carried out in 2006. You know her, in the interior ministry where employees responded to the situation in these ministries. And just in response to the police's confidence in the general police administration, the answers were so overwhelming, so this level of confidence in this general police administration was such that they were removed from the text that we all read together. Sure. They were uncomfortable, they were bad, and this will have to be explained and I would like to hear what and how you evaluate this document. Reliable, but unworthy. So these are the findings of the analysis that was made. Probably wouldn't make it up. And in all this, I come to the role of director of the police. There was already a speech about the Ambrus case, where instead of him, your megaphone was the one that was solving the situation. Someone used to quote one part of this interpolation. That the minister took the initiative to solve the problem. Sure. This Member has not read any further. This initiative ended with a megaphone in hand and with the eviction of the Strojan family from this end. This is indisputably indisputable for a minister who runs an internal ministry. We might even say, "If we sent an army there, there might be some defence minister doing this, but the Minister of Transport is undeniably not." And I believe the Secretary of Defense isn't either. But you never know who's got them. And speaking of this role as Police Director, this Director-General is, of course, a professional and politically independent function that should be the pillar of a legitimate, effective and professionally independent police work. This is once again a conclusion from this document, responsibilities and policy boundaries in the police field. We know who the CEO is today. We know what his political independence is. We know what his autonomy is, and we do not see him, and we no longer listen to him in the role that he should play as police director. Mostly. It's coming together, Mr. Secretary. Not according to your belief, but some facts suggest that your role, which, while it may be, through this Schengen project can be seen as a solid role in the public eye. But I wouldn't have said that. It was your job. It was the task of nine ministers from the countries that entered the Schengen area. And I don't know if they've all attached this avreola and just said, "The state has the best minister of the interior." But it is a fact that this is one of the things that has been successfully flowing. Finally, Mr. Minister, when you're getting ready, and when we were talking about interpolation and when people were listening to questions about interpolation, there were also some questions. Please, if you can answer something that's not in the interpolation, I have to say this, but it's for an illustration of this situation, maybe just to say. Those of us who read the 2005 state budgets and later 2008 and 2009 know that in the 2005 budget the investment in building a new building for the needs of the general police administration has been deleted. This same project later appeared in the 2008 budget and in the 2011 development programme plan. This investment is estimated at €94 million. This year, however, is set at 5,000 euros. So there's nothing you can do about that money. However, the information, i.e. the rustlings, is that in December 2007 you signed with IMOS one pre-contract for the value of an investment of EUR 70 million. This building is supposed to stand somewhere in the Litostora area or somewhere in this area. And I'm asking you. Does that information hold? Because, if it is true, it is incomprehensible that we could sign a prenup for something that today has no basis in any budget yet. It is not likely that it is possible to sign such a contract directly if you do not have a position or a clear and prior invitation to tender. My question is to give clear answers. There is no such contract, or maybe there is, but explain the reasons why. This gives rise to a few more insinuations that are circulating, but I would rather hold them off for another time when I may get more elements as President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission if this happens. So my contribution was a contribution which, on the part of the opposition Member, tells us how we feel about your work. About that part that's bad. I've also said what's good, and I hope we get some answers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers with coworkers. As long as Members of Parliament who are signed under interpretation against Minister of the Interior, Matthew, are only criticising this, I am calm and I will also be calm. But I'd be worried if we were to praise him. Because that would be a sign that something is actually wrong and that the minister may not be the right person for the responsible work he is doing. However, since fellow Members who are under interpolation are signing it, I know that Minister Mate is a good minister and that the good minister does not like this opposition. Nor does the opposition like that the Government is doing well and that it is working in the interest of Slovenia and its citizens. For the familiar syntagms are firmly entrenched: "The better it is in the country, the worse it is for us. And the worse it is in the country, the better it is for us." Therefore, they are constantly trying to create an impression in the public that living conditions in Slovenia are not good, that the government is not doing well and that ministers are not doing well. Although the actual situation is quite the other way around. By constantly repeating and exploiting its favored media space, the opposition wants to show the public the diametric opposite of the real and actual. However, if we look closely at the impressions recorded under the interpolation, we can see that all the charges are quickly dissipated, like the soap bubbles under the weight of the facts and arguments that the Minister has also cited in his reply against the interpolation and he has explained them very precisely today. None of the readings are well founded and difficult to withstand are serious professional judgements. Or, in some instances, we could talk more about different legal and professional interpretations as a result of the unanimity of the profession. In these cases, however, I could speak only of any doubt as to the importance of a certain legal or sub-law nor of clear infringements of the law and of legal provisions which could be the only basis for serious interpretation. However, there is no way that we can talk about breaking the rules just as much as we are doing this vehemently in the interpolation itself and as the interpolation investors are repeating today. And while they supply a variety of regulations and articles do not offer the right facts and evidence to justify their accusations. However, the argument offered by the proposers does not speak or mention, or merely refers very indirectly, to the causal link between an event and the conduct of the minister. It is interesting that a large part of the charges are made by the signatories to the interpellation on the yellow press. And what's interesting is that this yellow press also manages much of themselves. And now, of course, they launch some news first and then use this news as an argument for interpolation. That's funny. I find particularly absurd the allegations and accusations of abandonment of due diligence for the safety of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of Silva Pluto and on the other hand the charges of the conduct of State authorities in the case of the Strojan family. And among other things, today's argument was made that if Pluto were treated the same way as the Strojans, there would be no murder on Janča. But just when it came to dealing with the Strojan family, it was said that the police had overstepped their powers, violated human rights, and so on. In the case of Pluto, however, such overstatement and excessive jurisdiction would be desirable in order to prevent later harmful consequences. That's strange. And then I'll go to a more detailed procedure in these two cases. Therefore, it is the conduct of the police and other authorities within the Ministry of the Interior, where, in one case, the signatories of the interpretation build up their activities, if they were excessive, excessive, harsh, which would violate the legal standards and also violate human rights. On the other hand, the conduct of the police, which, just as in the first case, acted solely on the basis of the legal and sub-legislative rules, was marked as insufficient, passive and ineffective. Such labelling of events with diametrically contrary criteria led to the Minister's being held responsible, in the opinion of the signatories, because the police against Silva Pluta did not order the arrest or use of special or covert operational investigation measures and methods, although there was no legal basis for this at the time, as has been explained many times, but only regular operational activities were allowed to take place and this, in their view, would have caused Silva Plut to kill again. Such a simplified conclusion, which is once again offered by the signatories as proof of the merits of the interpretation, is indeed not worth serious consideration. On the other hand, in the case of the Strojan family, the minister's signatories accuse him of violating the human rights of family members by secretly observing and following. Although the police have not carried out secret observation and follow-up, which has also been explained many times and has also been found not to be the case by the State Prosecutor's Office. In this case, the police are supposed to be too harsh, overstep their powers, violate the human rights of the Strojan family, and I don't know what else has been reported. In fact, the police have merely carried out their regular activities, regular competences based on the fact that numerous complaints, numerous criminal charges and complaints have been lodged against individuals in the Strojan family, offences against public order and peace, road safety and in this regard, the police have also dealt with these offences in accordance with their competences. Therefore, on the basis of the laws and regulations, the police had to implement measures to increase the presence of police officers, to carry out observation services and patrolling, to restrict movement and so on. In this regard, the police have been kept in constant contact with the family, which has been informed and alerted by these measures, and therefore there has been no use of specific, covert investigation measures and methods as reported. Far from it! Therefore, there were no breaches of the rules, since this could only be the basis for interpretation, but all else is the role of the opposition, which should be carried out in all other proceedings, this is not the subject of interpretation. And when we compare these two cases, we see how inconsistent and inconsistent and unfair and unfair are the signatories to the interpolation. In one case, they therefore advocate the repressive behaviour of the police, even though they would overstep their authority and violate human rights, while in the other case, when the police did not overstep their powers at all, they carried out their operational activities in the context of preventive action, and that is what the police do when they say that it was too harsh to violate human rights and there are many other things written down. And such hypocrisy, if you'll excuse my colleague and colleague, I really can't accept it. As I mentioned earlier, it is an interpolation that contains accusations on very torn legs, a poor argument, which also suggests that the signatories were not at all meant to have a serious reasoned debate on the facts and evidence of the charges in writing, but that they were merely meant to attack the Minister, who is part of the Government as loudly as possible. However, the government must be shown as bad by all means in the public eye, which is therefore bad for the country and its citizens, because, as I said at the outset, they are only better off for us until they create an illusion: 'The worse for the country.' However, I hope that not only fellow Members of the Parliament and Members of this National Assembly, but also the public, will overlook this intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much. A little joke, a little more seriously: If I were the Minister, I would like to thank the interpellationers for giving him the opportunity to speak two and a half hours before the Slovenian public and that of the three he chooses, although he criticises that we are talking about those who have warned about the problems of his operation about things that are not written down, but he himself uses at least half of his performance to present a question and activities that no one has asked him about, which can also be positive and does not show any objection, but they were not the content of the interpretation. And at least Members and Members of Parliament, I suppose we know, but I also assume that Mr Minister, with excellent work, there can also be an individual act that has such a weight that interpellation is imposed on him and that interpellation can also succeed. Interpellation is therefore never a comprehensive action, which over three years would represent the engagement of a ministry. I am not surprised by this fact, and I have expected it because whoever has listened and actually evaluated the performances of the Minister knew that he has good rhetorical skills, that he is extremely categorical, that he will three times stress what is useful to him and bypasses him or that he has half the truths about what is not good for him. That's what happened today. And the second thing I would say, half for a joke, half for a fact, is: it would be best for the Minister to stop talking to the coalition MPs for the sake of the Minister, because any discussion they have is damaging to the good impression that the Minister was trying to make. Since he was talking about facts and coalition Members are trying to politicise, to ask what interpretation is, when to invest, who to invest, what content it is dear ladies and gentlemen is irrelevant, each Member and every Member has the right to decide to submit it, it is necessary to submit it on questions of the work of the Minister, and this has been done. [[...]] Because of this, after this introduction, we have talked about three issues, because I think there is no point in talking about everything in particular, and not about what we have not asked the Minister, but he has explained to us. I would like to talk about the Plut case and agree with those who claim that at the very least it is necessary to say that the criminal and legal profession in this respect has been divided in Slovenia and that there are not such indisputable claims made by the Minister that the police have done everything they have been authorized to do. Some others thought otherwise. Let me say that article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act in paragraph 1 states: "If there are grounds to suspect that an offence has been committed for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, the police must do whatever is necessary." I stress once again "the police must do everything necessary to track down the perpetrator of the crime, to ensure that the perpetrator or the participant does not hide or escape, to detect or protect traces of the crime and objects which may be evidence and to gather all the notices that may be useful for the successful execution of the criminal procedure." [[....]] In this case, criminals point out that there was already the first reason to suspect any document that came from the Serbian police after Mr Plut committed the crime of murder after his release in Serbia. The obligation to do everything necessary to the police requires that, on the basis of the obligations laid down in the law, it initiates all available activities to track down the perpetrator and secure the evidence, not to invoke that it has not received a mandate from the prosecutor, that the judicial authorities of Slovenia and Serbia could not agree on the exchange of data and so on. And there's something else to say. The criminal act of murder committed in Alexinca is considered by all the experts to be a direct basis for action. Article 122. The Penal Code provides that the Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia shall apply to a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia even if he commits a crime abroad, in addition to the offences listed in the preceding article, if committed in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, or if committed. So, not only if it is handed over, but also if it is caught in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia after all the measures have been taken to track it down and close it down. Well, I'm sure the bases were. I'm not saying the only thing. But it's so easy to say, "We did everything." is at least half-truth. There were divergent views and, therefore, in the debate on the labour force, in the initial debate, when things were not yet agreed on how to interpret them, the Ministry of Justice said that in a particular case there were no obstacles to prosecution under Article 124, paragraph 2, and therefore that there were legal grounds for prosecution. Later this blurred, and it was no longer taken into account. Your call, ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members, that everything is decided on the home working body, however, are ridiculous. We know how the mother's working body decides. Most of them. We know who has the majority, and we know that many times, or usually not the arguments, but the majority. That's what happened this time. So much for the non-controversy in the Plut case. It's a matter of cases involving the operation of security services. The Minister claims that he had no authority and that he could not act in time. Although it has been warned that there is a suspicion that the operation of a security company which does not meet the conditions and which has already been punished in the proceedings. The Minister says he couldn't act on it because paragraph 40 didn't allow him to do that. But, Minister, you had the opportunity to amend Article 40 a long time ago, and you proposed such a change only after the National Assembly rejected the law. Only then and only after a tragic event occurred before Global did the Ministry decide to amend Article 40 of the Law to allow action. So again, don't say that the Ministry's conduct was intact. It wasn't. You just believed and thought that you could act in other ways, and you did not act in time. Today you claim that you are not responsible because within three years an appropriate regulation has not been drawn up and issued, if, on the basis of an amendment to the inspection law, the inspector's powers have been obtained. If that's true, then you had all the grounds for action. If it isn't, you calculated again with an assumption that wasn't real. And it's probably right for you to say these things. Since the first law we later rejected on the basis of the State Council's veto, he did not generally speak of operational tasks and powers. All he talked about was taking a chamber out of the service, a law enforcement company in the field of education, on the basis of some of your controls, which were relatively empty and relatively empty. Some of the judgments that you recently received have also revealed your illegal conduct. So, at least on these two things, it would be possible to list some other things, it cannot be argued that your work is completely flawless and that you have done always and completely well. And the last thing that is not explicitly stated in the request for interpretation, but you spoke about it today, Mr Minister, and I must say that you were extremely incorrect, that you were deceiving Slovenia and Slovenia and speaking the false. You said the blanks didn't get their status. Following a decision of the Constitutional Court in 1999 and 2003, they were not obliged to regulate their status because they had it. And it was illegal for the then authorities to take that status away from them. Many times, too, with methods that were not public but were invited to the police or to the administrative authorities for other reasons and then destroyed the documents. Therefore, to claim that they have not settled their status is not true, but is false. And then later, they didn't want to settle either citizenship or foreign status. The Constitutional Court expressly found that they had foreign status and that the status of a foreigner should be recognised. Indeed, you are many of these, or most of them did not want to settle. Only ladies and gentlemen, whether it is a definition that I want to maintain the status of a foreigner, not to acquire the status of a citizen, or whether it is an act for the current authorities to decide that illegal measures will prevent them from residing in the country, provided that most of them will be evicted. I think these are actions that need to be named by precise definitions. The Ministry can count on solutions through constitutional law, that is its right, only it must properly qualify the acts and not directly play out the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I think it's right, even on this occasion, to say this because the minister was also at this point telling the truth and deceiving the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We've heard something about statistics today. In particular, Mr Minister said that he himself did not have access to statistics and that they could not be changed. That's true, and of course I believe him. However, to manipulate or interpret statistics in one way or another. And statistics can prove a lot of things, even the other way around. By the end of last year or about two months before the end of last year, the security situation in the Idrian congregation had deteriorated significantly. It was almost a "obsessive state", almost every few days the media reported burglaries and thefts in schools, shops, in guest facilities, sports facilities, both in the heart of the city, Lower Idrija, Black Top and in Idrija themselves, as they say. And when we asked the municipal council to address this burning issue, then on the municipal council, we learned that the security situation in the municipality in 2007 was virtually better than it was in 2006, when it was assessed, it was possible to understand from statistics that citizens in the Idrija police station area were provided with quite good security. This is the conclusion for 2006. For 2007, however, it was supposed to be much better, even though we kept hearing about these burglaries, about places, about these different facilities, from schools to other facilities, restaurants, shops, sports facilities and so on. Of course, it came to the aid of statistics, interpreted in a very creative way, when practically one major event was dealt with 60 times. And basically one perp was discovered 60 times in one night. That's how statistics can handle a lot of things. But that's not the most important thing. More importantly, it seems to me that police stations had been shut down years ago when some police stations in the municipalities were operating, and now police offices or possibly police departments were supposed to be there. So today we have only five classic police stations on Nova Gorica police administration, in Ajdovščina, Bovec, Nova Gorica and in Tolmin. That classic police station that cares about public order and peace, of course, other things, in the territory of the municipalities. But there are some police offices that are more or less on paper. When I asked citizens in the Cerkno Congregation today whether they knew that a police office was operating there, many did not even know that a police office operated there twice a week after two hours: on Mondays from 12 to 14 p.m. and Fridays from 13 to 15 p.m. By replacing the former police station, which had its own police department, which controlled the situation in the territory of that congregation. Today, 21 police officers are fewer than they were years ago at the police station than they were a few years ago. This is said to have significantly increased the territory from Cola over the Vipava Valley to Zakojce over Baska Grapa. You know how big and loose the terrain is, and it's very difficult to control the security situation in such an area. And if the police patrol goes to Zakojca or Bukovo or the village under Javornik, how can it come and act in the very city center when something special is happening. It is essentially a very large human resources supply, not just Idrija police stations, but also elsewhere, even in other Slovenian cities. Now these border police stations in northern Primorsk have also been shut down, namely Spinja, Kobarid, Dobrova. Indeed, a new police station has been set up for compensatory measures, but there has been a shortage of staff when most police officers were transferred to the external borders of the European Union on the Schengen. In such a way that I would appeal to the leadership of the Slovenian police and also to the Ministry of the Interior that it is necessary to strengthen the police stations on the ground itself, because the personnel available today cannot be adequately provided for the safety of citizens and citizens. Let me reiterate that sometimes statistics are also helpful, which is interpreted more easily and then, in fact, when the security situation worsens, we find that this security situation has actually improved. I would appeal, Mr Minister, that these classic police stations in our country be strengthened human resources to meet the tasks they must perform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! When I was driving towards Ljubljana today, I was listening to the debate, you who were here. I heard a statement from one of the candidates, Mr Gantard, who said that the interpretation could argue on its own. So that it is such that all the points can be made and because it has previously been reported that the applicants are in a small number of representations here and I really agree. What is written in this interpretation can be interpreted by him and by someone else, and in fact it is good that today is a deserted Tuesday, because the matter is not too serious. It's more of a day-long masquerade of words. I have also heard that the statement was made by the opposition, the positional councilors, when you, in your previous mandate, were also making interpretations. And since I was an opposition Member myself, I can say that this is also true, of course we are, even against the Interior Minister, Mr Bohinc. This is because he issued the rulings to the deleted, if I so designate them, by law, following a decision of the Constitutional Court. But I have to say, we disguised ourselves and we didn't. And you respected colleagues in today's opposition have disguised yourself. Part of you has disguised yourself in SD, Mr Gaber in an independent and accounted for writing back into the school area, and most of it has disguised itself as some new client, Zares, who is now being sold as some new politician. At least I've known Mr. Trofenik for a very long time, 25 years. He's actually a naphthalene politician. There is nothing new, and what he has been telling here today is more revealing his own personal pain. He talked about it, and I apologize, Mr. Minister, because, as I understand it, he didn't sign the interpretation, but he will vote against you. Among other things, he gave two reasons. One of these is that up to two locals, this is in the Armenian municipality, remained a prisoner raised on the Schengen border and will stand until we arrange the way to these two locals in the Slovenian territory and so on. It's the same way she's gonna stay up. And I am pleased that you have made such a decision and that we can tell those who live there that they will also receive this road this year. Mr. Trofenik was the mayor of the municipality for 20 years, and he couldn't arrange it, so we're going to settle it now. And he expressed his pain against you in a movie you can see on YouTube on the Internet if you type the word "anti-Villa". But this was what Mr. Trophynik said, because he accused me of making this film, and because the police didn't find out that I was connected to it, then he attacked the minister who was being intertwined here. Things that had nothing to do with it, but he talked about it for a very wide and very long time. So don't be offended if I just tell you. As far as interpolation is concerned, very briefly. To work politically and collect points on such matters as Lipa and Global - I apologize to the relatives of these unfortunate people who have died - to make a policy on this is an extremely perverted act. This matter can happen today, it can happen tomorrow, tomorrow or tomorrow, or God forbid, it can happen anytime and anywhere. No preventatives can be set here as you require from the District Minister. It's just not possible. As well as not establishing full security on our roads, the Minister can't make it, if he doesn't have how many police officers. You said the cops weren't enough. We have them if you ask too many people. The cops are huge with us, but I have to say we're working together to understand each other. And it's true what my colleague Majda Zupan said that today a lot of people think we don't need the police, a lot of people are confident. I think that after this debate by the opposition today more people think that we do not need it. But when something comes up, then we call the police immediately, "Help us!" I can say that I myself have experienced this in the past, that today the police are much more friendly to people - it is not true that they would be less educated than they used to be, it is not true that general security would deteriorate and everything you added to this and wanted to present the minister than the one who is guilty of something impossible happening. It just doesn't hold. Once again, we have more police officers than we used to have, but they are deployed to this Schengen border, that people are involved with them, and we are all aware that the reality is that they have to be, and of course this is happening, that some are leaving and others are coming. That's the way it is in all professions, so it's in the police, like, if you want, between teachers and doctors and everywhere, that wages are low. I don't know who in Slovenia would say he doesn't have too low a salary, because you say that you have too low a salary, not in front of the cameras, but when we meet there, behind closed doors, it's often been thought of what the Members would do to make the payments a little higher. Let's be honest - there are salaries such as Slovenian reality everywhere. What are the wages in our factories? Much lower than the police. As for this unfortunate Ambrus, and here I would like to say that I was once the leader of the parliamentary group, after the events when the journalists held the microphone in front of my mouth and asked me what I mean, I answered then, and the record exists that there was a mistake, but I added something else, I can say this now because it can be the general after the battle, because then it all began to happen. But they didn't put the second sentence in public, just the first one, but I told them it was possible to be a general after the battle, and they didn't give it to me. And when I later saw that these Ambrus Roma were also not wanted anywhere in Slovenia, I understood that it was actually impossible to stay in that place. Others, too, did not want to have them anywhere in Slovenia, because there were some bullies in this family who caused what they were causing. I'll get it over with. And I say that this interpellation does not have any real arguments, it does not have some groundwork and respectable gentlemen, so don't be sorry that the Minister was able to tell the public and defend himself at the time the television was still being broadcast. After all, it is right that, with all this offensive talk by our citizens and citizens, that I will not say, Mr Kontič, I would not blame only the Slovenes and Slovenians, but I mean all those who live in this country have the right to carry out many things that have not been said in this interpretation. These are only obvious, and the Minister has every right to defend himself and we coalition Members have every right to defend him, because we estimate that he is a good minister and that he has done well, and that these arguments are very, very weak in the interpretation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u123	Mr. Gantar, you have the floor on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u124	Of course, it's a replica of Mr Sok's performance. Mr. Sok didn't hear much when he was driving. Maybe it's good for him because he's either looking at the road or he's got a bad radio. Anyway, I didn't say I could interpret the interpretation and present what I said, I didn't say that. On the contrary, I am very glad that others represent the interpretation and that they speak about it mainly from a position because they show what they really think or at least look like. But I said something else: I can do what I can with the arguments given by the position in response to the interpolation, and also with your arguments, Mr Sok. I'd say that, in principle, I don't believe a man who says "let's be honest" too often. Right now, he's hiding something in the back, some scam, a trick or a trick he's trying to bring us around. And it actually brings us around, not with the pain of others, but with its own. As I know, as mayor, he's already had problems a few years ago, which are too big, given how long he's been in this job. And I don't think he's going to outrun his buddy Trophynik, who's been in this place for a long time. Yet, he did not listen to something quite good and especially considerate. We've never said anything like that, an incident like that, an accident like that, an accident can't happen. I have repeatedly stressed today that such events can happen; but in the good two years five dead young people on similar premises, at the intersection of public space and event space, in all three cases, Lipa, Celje, Global, the security services involved in their own way. And if this is not a reason to ask what is being done, what has been done, are these services such that they have done their business or not? And if they're not, why not? Was it supervised? If this is not legitimate, the public question to the Member of this National Assembly is I really do not know what it is! Do we really have to put everything in the drawer, put everything under the carpet, just to keep the conscience clean, and to say, "Let's be honest?" No, gentlemen, you're not gonna get us into this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Not because of this last debate, these reasons that were mentioned here are not the ones that we were supposed to discuss in connection with the interpretation of a minister, but when I listened to some other debates earlier, and there were many, I remembered some of the conversations that we had a while ago and we were discussing whether the state share in the Triglav Insurance Company, which some call family silver, should be transferred to the chambers of citizens and citizens or not. And there, somewhere in the middle of this debate, which has become quite infertile, someone said, "Listen, are we kidding or what?" And not because of this last debate, but those I've listened to before, I have to say, "Listen, are we kidding here or what?" Interpelation is a serious matter. Interpellation is not intended for a media show, not for parliamentarians or anyone else. Laying the minister on his shoulders to take advantage of this matter in terms of television, please. You're the one who triggered the case. You know you don't have any arguments, or you didn't set any smart arguments. And now that you're in some kind of trouble, when you don't know what to say, the minister is guilty because he reasoned on what was said; and when it was necessary to say what was wrong here. But to tell him that he did it, but one perversion is unprecedented. None of what is written and none of what you added to the debate today is of such nature as to earn a place in interpretation against a minister. Nothing! In one case, you accused the minister of exerting political pressure, influence on the police, which was supposed to be independent and autonomous, in another case you told him that he did not take advantage of this political pressure or this political influence. The first case - the genocide charge, the second case - the Plut case. Let yourself decide what is now or is not enough of this political influence or too much of it. It's just as much as the law says. The Minister shall be responsible for the portfolio and, as such, shall monitor its functioning. Nowhere in any move has it been shown that any action by him has affected the concrete functioning of specific police officers. Nowhere! And that's right. Then I listened to the debate: the minister is responsible for where security cameras are placed somewhere in Slovenia through the interpellation, beware, through an interpellation, which is a serious act of political accusation. He's guilty because the police aren't in a place where the MP would expect them, but they're not. On the other hand, he's guilty because they are, but the Member does not expect them there - please! I don't think these are really things that we're supposed to be discussing here today under some kind of interpolation. And after the accusations we heard that were recorded, none of them had any serious arguments. I think that the whole matter from the first steps forward, as it has been done, had one exclusive purpose: a public performance, a mutilation of a minister at the most sensitive time, at a time when all Europe acknowledged that it had done something for Slovenia and also for other countries an important step concerning Schengen. This is also acceptable in politics, of course, but it is not good to deal with these matters in the National Assembly, where they are supposed to deal with slightly more serious things that have concrete effects on the lives of citizens and citizens. What's the actual situation with the police? It's not the best. But not because of the arguments you're making. In every system, especially in a large system, which the police, which is highly heterogeneous, need to change over periods. They're urgent. Otherwise the system starts to look bad. The wheels are slowing down. And some amendments have also been made by the Minister through legislation and other measures in this mandate. Not enough. However, he acted politically wisely and made as many changes as possible in a system as the police could digest. Any rush, any faster steps, would likely lead to such or other resistance. This is a political reality and we have to face it. If someone were to start a change 15 years ago or 12 years ago and gradually introduce these steps, perhaps we too could say that the police are fully more effective or that they are as we all want them to be. We're going to get to that point, and I think the moves that the minister and his team make are a step in the right direction. Surely they will be needed in the future, regardless of who will participate in a future government coalition, changes will also be needed in this area, as they are essential in view of the development of all other systems. However, even when the Minister came to this National Assembly with individual amendments, which were not unknown to me, there were essentially such changes, which eliminated the anomalies of previous governments: stickers, unnecessary technical checks for new vehicles. He brought the car from the factory where it was technically inspected, and he had to take it to a technical inspection. That was over. Now he only drives after four years and then every three or two years. No, no, Mr. Anderlich, read it. But if you don't believe me, why don't you go see if you still have an old car, and you've got some stickers on it. That sticker was the cost that taxpayers unduly paid to a private company with an air name. You've been specialists here as far as the plane is concerned. You bought them successfully, you said, even more successfully then you broadcast them. Your former prime minister even said it was a shame we didn't have two Falcons when we gave it away so successfully. In a short time, this "success" will show up in the bidding, the show. And an airline called Mirage, which raised hundreds of millions of Slovenian tolls of taxpayer money, was one of these air projects. And when we were doing these things in this National Assembly, remember, gentlemen on my right, then some of the left-hand people weren't on the right-hand side, you objected to these things being done because that's not right. Things can be problematic. They're not a problem. And seven thousand tolars, like one of your colleagues said today, "seven thousand lousy tolars" -- you know, it's not that little money. That's 30 euros, that's about a tenth of the guaranteed salary in our country. And those who have your mouth full when we talk about the problems of inflation and talk about that when we give the poorest 30 euros a month, we have done nothing. In the same breath, you say, it's seven thousand tolars or 30 euros. But if we multiply them with all those who had to pay that amount, and we accumulate this thing in some pocket, we see where that story went and how it happened. In short, an unnecessary cost has been eliminated, a measure has been taken, which is good, and yet we have heard strong debates about the violence we are doing in this area. It was similar in passports. The current, technologically more demanding passport costs less than the previous one produced by an airline with an air name. These are facts, verifiable facts, gentlemen. But then there was no interpolation, because it would have been necessary to interpret someone who hadn't been in that position for a long time. Then we hear about Mrs. Jelka Strojan's family. It's an extremely business family. I think in recent years this is the most entrepreneurial family in this country. I've rarely heard of a family so entrepreneurship in my life. But to report to the minister that he had moved this family from one place to another, while the facts that we considered to be commissions were different when they said that the Ministry of the Interior had ensured public order and peace, protected people's property and their security. That's what happened. And perhaps it has been said a hundred times that ladies and gentlemen have gone elsewhere alone. Every single one of you is free to choose where you're going to stay. It is true that at a meeting of the municipal council, a fellow of yours who now laughs at me, did not veto the decision of the municipal council, which decided that this family should not settle in the territory of their congregation. He can't settle. The Constitution says that everyone is free to choose his place of residence. This was not disputed and we did not discuss this at any of the committees in this National Assembly, not in this Parliament. It is true that this decision was later overturned, after a number of pressures, and probably when the head of the parliamentary group invited him to talk. But these are the facts, these are the facts that I'm talking about because this is a huge misdirection in these things, because this is about measuring the same things with different vats, and I think we have to be objective about these things and we can't move. Even those people who didn't get their status in 1992. They didn't get their status. The decisions of the Constitutional Court were later taken. At that time, some legislation was in force and it was necessary to act operationally under that legislation. And it is right that this problem should be settled after so many years in such a way that the entire National Assembly is politically aware of it, hence the constitutional law. As a result of this agreement, which would prevent further conflicts, further separations. And that's why we have to stop moving at this point. In fact, the cases were settled at the time, but the Constitutional Court later found that some laws were not in harmony. It is true that interpellation is a legitimate tool of the opposition and this tool is used by the responsible opposition as used. We usually use the tool to do something with it to build something to fix something if it's bad. It is not that we wave around, that we break everything around us, that we are observant, and that others see us. And this interpolation is similar to this last one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u127	Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u128	There's only one explanation, because it's such a cruel deception that you can't stand. I didn't agree with the stickers, and it's only right that you cut them off. But it is true that with what you have now introduced - and here the minister has been speaking the false of the price. When you sell a car, you can't keep your license plate and move it on to the car. That's not true. I registered my car a month ago. I'd love to have that license plate I had on three cars. No, I had to buy a new one! The explanation from the Ministry of the Interior that I couldn't do it except because it was a serial one, I liked the serial one as it was -- on three cars I had it before -- unless I had the one on the order that was really weird on the "poof," and I don't know what I was reading in there the last time. But if I had that, I could move on. And the other story that happened with this decision of yours, which was taken in this mandate, is when the registration plate must go with the vehicle anywhere in Slovenia. There I saw, after Ljubljana people argued, they said, well, what are these Styrians, but I don't know which parking in our parking lot, but basically one of these blocks bought a car with registration from I don't know where. And now you've actually inspired the license plate. Trust me. And at the Ministry of the Interior, the official told me to give it to me when we make a proposal for a change, back it up. I said I would. This is nonsense on the part of your official. Check it out. I registered a car on November 7th. And you'll see that everybody does that and that there's so many mixed license plates now that it's Koper - after four years you have to change the car because otherwise it can be dangerous. After four years, it's a very decent time, depending on how anyone looks at security and so on. And also as far as technical examinations are concerned, Mr. Chernač. For at least 10 years, there was no need for a three-year technical review, and now you don't need it for four years because you've extended one year, that's all. And don't deceive, please don't deceive, these are facts. I happen to get to know this a little bit more because I'm also a fan of what's called a driving park and a car race and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Congratulations on your new car, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u130	The old one can't do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u131	Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. I must rephrase my colleague Chernač and congratulate him on the removal of the stickers with the Minister, but this does not excuse you for denying our possibility of interpretation if we warn the Minister that he is not active in anti-corruption activities and that you are even helping him, Mr Cernač. You spent several hours defending those who put a quarter million in their pocket for tax advice on electric cables that carried out helicopter transports for a million and a half Euros for a million and a half hours. They're all corrupt acts. Today we have warned that the Minister has removed the stickers - and congratulations to the Minister for this. I don't drop what plates anyone can have, who can't. But that doesn't mean that MNZ, the police may be less active in tackling anti-corruption acts, and that's what this is about. Therefore, interpellation is a tool to alert the Slovenian public, the minister of activities where it did not work well. And to make fun of the entrepreneurship of the Strojan family, which is the only family that has been displaced in a free Slovenia, as it is called, when accompanied by the police, rather than being protected by the police, these are nice things that do not have much to do, if not otherwise, with respect for the right to choose an apartment. The people lived on their land and were evicted to a military area. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Who raised their hand? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I don't believe you've heard, Mr. Vice President, what I've been talking about and you've given inequitablely. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] - if you allow me, I would like to explain in a procedural manner - and for this reason, you have unduly given the floor to my colleague, Brick, on the basis of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to ask that this Rules of Procedure, which we have already discussed many times, are respected as it is written. I haven't talked about any pediatric clinic and no cables, but I did draw a graph before Mr. Squikel, from which, if he doesn't understand it so far, it can be obvious that there is no public funding in this matter and that it is a matter of pure manipulation if two private companies sign something between them. However, at this meeting, which he is talking about, I also said that if anything else in tax procedures was wrong in these matters, I expect that matters would be [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u136	clear the competent authorities. [[...]] I'm not done yet, Mr. Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u137	That's not procedural. That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u138	Yeah, yeah, let me get to the bottom of it. [[...]] I would also say that Mr Anderlich obviously does not know when and what laws he has adopted. I'd suggest he take a look at them. In the future, I propose to give the floor in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, as the Rules of Procedure have also been written [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you so much for the lesson. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u140	Because otherwise I don't have a chance to answer this nonsense. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you so much for teaching me. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In fact, one of the songs also says, "I'm guilty because I'm alive." Minister, because you're a minister, you're guilty, and because you're here, you're intertwined. But all of this is actually very 'frequent' because you are also guilty because you do not know the terrain or some area of a fellow Member. Mr. Minister, you're also guilty because they shut down police stations 10 years ago or so, some of them expressed themselves, but they didn't pull out of the police force. But this interpolation should have been 10 years ago to another minister who was then. You're guilty of not letting all citizens and citizens know that in some areas the police office only operates twice a week, 8-14 hours or whatever I know, what hours, and more. Or, in other words, you've been convicted of something for which it's not even in the description of your work or the police. They condemn you for some mistakes that have been made in the system for the past 12 years. It is true, however, that in this mandate, all these interpretation charges are not worth the question of the Member State, not only the accusations of a minister who, of course, must be such as to prove to him that he has violated the law or even the constitution. In short, it was nothing like that, so all these stories are really weird. Perhaps the minister is asking, as is the question of why some cases are not solved. That it is not resolved, but, of course, in narration, because something is a matter of the police, the prosecution, then the justice and so on, the so-called robbery in the SKB. Robbery at the SKB hasn't been resolved yet. Yes, and the minister blames you for not solving the SD robbery case. You didn't even do it, and neither did the police. You're probably afraid of that, but what do we want? If we take a step further in terms of such singing and so many recognizable places as Ambrus, such as the Mirk Stroján family, I would read something to know the problem to my colleagues and colleagues. Mirko Strojan, Obobozna c. 100, object Doveš, Ljubljana-Sentvid, POP TV statement, and then his signature: "Signatured Mirko Strojjan declares that I am outraged at the convictions against Minister Matej. In my 24th edition, I have heard that Mr Minister is responsible for irregularities in the protection, monitoring and control of my family. I strongly deny all the accusations because my family, under the extraordinary conditions of our stay in the Children's Village, which arose after the attack on Mr Šinkovec, asked Mr Minister personally for help. Every time we move, we ask for the protection of the police and their assistance. In our case, I see no reason for Mr Minister to do anything that my family would not have previously requested or approved any intervention. Because the Ambrus villagers and the surrounding areas threatened us, the police's help was urgent and inevitable. I quote the statements of one of the threats: We will put you on a pile and burn everything. I ask that my letter be published and the evidence against the Minister regarding the protection of my family is terminated." I have read this in order to allow the next 20 opposition debaters, who are still in my turn, by midnight or perhaps longer, to release this case, in short, to have an easier job. Well, and from today's newspaper, Delo writes: "Ambrusians on petition reject the evidence of discrimination. The population of Ambrus and the surrounding areas submitted a petition to the National Assembly, signed by 959 locals, rejecting the evidence of intolerance and discrimination against the Roma. At the same time, they emphasize, [[...]] [[Background advertising]] Yeah, listen, but you know what, you need to be told more than once, and you still don't get caught. [[...]] I'm sorry. And I don't have any hope of ever being. But I would expect the chairman to leave me alone when I speak, and my colleague Tonet will keep me quiet. "They both point out that in a long-term search for appropriate solutions, police and Interior Minister Dragontin Mate have done everything they can to ensure that the conflict has not escalated into an even worse aggravation of the situation. We have been residents of Ambrus and many surrounding areas for 15 years because of the constant places of property..." and so on. And then they say that the main culprit for such a situation has been attributed to law enforcement authorities who have to act first in breaking the law, even though the judiciary and social services bear their responsibility. Colleagues and colleagues, Ambrus and Strojanov, did not happen to this minister because he did not bring them with him from anywhere, but Ambrus and Strojanov are, of course, the consequence of the failure to resolve complex, conflict-related, unpleasant situations in our country. This is not the only case, of course, and the previous government has not dealt with such problems during the time of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. And now the minister is guilty, and this government has solved this problem by writing one and the other, both Strojans and Ambrusians, writing one and the other positive good words about the minister and the police. Both were satisfied that this problem had been solved. Yes, Minister, and then you're really not a real minister, because ministers have to do the wrong thing because ministers have to do everything but what's good for citizens and citizens! You know, if you were a real minister, then you'd be like the opposition MPs when they refuse to see this country develop accordingly. They have simply rejected the law on coherent regional development and, of course, the Minister, who has worked for the benefit of these citizens and citizens, is unfortunately intertwined. And one more thing before I finish. However, it seems that for this interpretation, which, as I have already mentioned, is not worth even the questions sent, obviously does not stand for the Group of Members or the first-signed Group of Members. Indeed, it is now present, so at this point with two weeks when I started the debate, she was present with one week of her Members and Members. It seems like it's some other project, that it's a project of someone who's been commissioned and is some members of the opposition, just like they were already ashamed of some other vote. And it is said that they do something, something else is said in front of the microphones, and in fact they think differently, as some people do in voting. Well, colleagues and colleagues, that is precisely the fundamental problem of our democracy. It's just that when we're in front of the cameras and we're moving around, when we're here in the National Assembly, and we're always not right, we're not fair, especially to ourselves. We're doing something that makes us do something. Unfortunately, many of you are, I'm sorry, thank God I've never been, never will, and this honest posture, even when it's not easy, it's important if you can handle it. I believe that, on the basis of what citizens and citizens have heard today, we will also be able to decide on the good work you have presented. One of the MPs told you that you may have spoken outside or that your fellow Member, Drobnic, mentioned that you had presented and used that time to do a good job. Yeah, well, the problem is you didn't have anything to say! If he's a Tiny, I didn't hear him say it myself, he only told the truth. And it is right that he said this to the opposition Members. Some, as I said, need to be repeatedly repeated and explain certain things. Such things are true for all citizens and citizens, but of course some chosen ones make a different decision and think they are smarter than all others or more papal than the pope. However, this period of time of this "popularity over papacy", thank God, is very short. Every four years, citizens and citizens in this assembly replace about 50% to 60% of Members and Members. They're right. I am even sure that they will replace an even greater share this autumn, because there is a real number of people who do not deserve to do their work. But I'll get it over with. Ladies and gentlemen, people need to be judged by their actions. Minister, we're judging you that you've worked very well in this mandate. I would almost hope to claim that you were awarded, because you were a good worker in this mandate, there is yet another term of office for the ministry. Make sure you're okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u143	I'm asking for peace in the hall. According to established practice, only the speaker has the word. Please, if that's what you're considering. A colleague of Školč applied to the procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I so listen to my fellow Member, Mr Puksic, then the Minister does not feel sorry for me so much for the defence, but for all that he has to listen to in his defence. But those eyewitnesses can't be done with them the way we've listened to them. He keeps repeating here that it's an empty charge. However, we have not yet heard the answer to certain things. Perhaps Minister Mate is sly about twisting words, but I'll say it again. In the electoral records, we charge him with negligence. He says he signed 73,000 of them on duty, sorry, now for those there. It turns out that 22,000 of these have not even been registered since the official duty, and from there the number has fallen strongly against [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u145	My friend, let me ask you a question. Do you speak as a proponent or procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u146	As a proposer, otherwise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u147	You're signed. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u148	As a gentleman who is currently in charge of the National Assembly, we should know by now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u149	Go on, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much. So, the point is that the minister entered 22,000 of them into the directory without having all the data needed to be entered into the directory. Later, many more were counted, and of all who sent them, 10,000 did not actually hit the headline. That's what I was talking about earlier. Of course, it's negligence and nothing else in the directory. The second question is that it's sent by the electoral commission and so on. The Minister is not responsible for the election. But such negligence is costly on the one hand, and on the other hand it raises questions and, on the third hand, doubts that elections can be properly conducted. We didn't get an answer there. We keep hearing that the interpolators should demand more instructions from the minister at one time and less from the police. It's this famous twist when we're talking about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u151	Mr Školč, allow me, unlike you, not to be rude, but to your word you have applied procedurally, so your time has been running within the procedural framework, so you now have a minus. Please switch off and re-apply to your time within the scope of the proposal. For all the other speakers, please, if you are so correct, not just to me, which I know you are not, but especially to the professional services of the National Assembly, and when you speak, at least procedurally, you always tell the proposer, on behalf of whom you speak. Please take into account this degree of tolerance and be more tolerant in the future. Thank you very much. Comrade Paula Gantar, you wanted a word. In what form?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u152	I wanted to be a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u153	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I must say that in these last discussions, I am really having some fun these evenings, although I should not be, because we are proposing the opposition. While in the opposition we are actually trying to discuss some of the arguments and facts in the answers the Minister has given us and the ruling position here in the middle, after three years it remains as if it were actually in the opposition. It acts as if it was the opposition, and it seems to it that the main objective of the attack is those who submitted the interpolation to attack, but not to discuss what is actually true, what is not true, what is happening and what is not happening. But the fact is that the picture comes together after what I heard from Mr Pukšič, the picture comes together when I heard another previous speaker who actually praised this interpretation and who said that he was very happy if the minister is being built and criticized, because the more they criticize him, the more evidence that the minister is really good. After all, if this is proof that he's a good minister, when we tell him this and that, if that's evidence, then we have to ask ourselves, after all, the minister will ask me to play him so that I can tell him something, so that he will be called "attack." The conspiracy theorists won't even believe that -- I'm going back to Pukšič -- then he, Minister, talked us into writing the interpellation. There's something in the back, that fellow of ours said. Not only did he ask us to intercede, but he even wrote it himself. However, as the majority opinion here is that the interpretation is poor, this is a bad sign for the Minister and the Minister after all, after all, after these arguments, it is not even so good. And in the end, when we come to this, there's still a threat to the minister that he'll have to be because he's not that good, for four more years. He has a very sad fate, regardless of the outcome of this interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you for your word and welcome. We've been discussing this interpretation for 12 hours. I must say that most of this time I have been present, and if I draw a summary of the speakers' discussions, I really get the feeling that my colleague Gantar has just said before me. The only difference is that we would probably write a slightly better interpolation in a position than this; with more arguments, if we really wanted to remove someone. I have a feeling, given the entire debate of the motioners, as well as the other opposition Members, that I do not know whether you wanted to praise or criticize the minister. In fact, this was in fact the most positive in terms of this interpolation. I don't know if you know that you didn't decide at the right time to intercede with Minister Matthew, given that everyone who discussed by the proposer, among other things, praised the Minister for how well-done it was. I consider that positive because at least you've been discovered and "one pair of flowers". I think that the Minister will also take care of this, given the level of staff in the Ministry of the Interior, compared to the staff in the previous mandate. We know that in the past mandate, the Ministry of the Interior, within which the Ministry of the Interior was also somewhat local government, or what is happening today at the Ministry of Public Administration. Look, those of us who know things or personnel, or those who cooperate or we also have to cooperate from the point of view of local self-government with individual departmental ministries, we know clearly where these people are today. At the Ministry of Local Self-Government, all those who were then under the Ministry of the Interior or at the time were even a local self-government office or department. And these people are with Minister Zhagar today. However, Minister Virant is one of those who are under this ministry today, even this government service of common services, which once existed, is now under Minister Virant. By explaining today that the minister, who also had an argument, also said how it seemed that someone could claim today that it could have done so much given that he had the staff left behind, which he once had three former ministers, that today only one but only one, as far as the Ministry of the Interior - this is a bit of a hair draw. I think my colleague Kumer was discussing this. Disobedience of the law. Look, I am firmly convinced that all the legislation that was in the National Assembly, or the current, old one, had been adopted before, certainly also respected and enforced by Minister Mate. Disobedience of the legislation, I think my colleague Puksic has already started with regard to the provincial legislation. We have passed a constitutional law to establish the provinces. Will we now, given that you voted against it the last time, put the interpellation against Minister Žagar? And you'll say, "Stupid case." But I think it's just as stupid as the one you compared Ambrus's or Strojan's and Pluto's case. Some of you on the one hand claimed that somewhere the police took too much authority, if I may say so, and on the other hand, too little. I don't know if there's going to be an event, will the legislative branch of power here first thing in the morning decide how the executive branch will intervene this afternoon, or in what kind of powers? Will it be our decision or will it be made by the body in the body or by the one under Minister Matthew? But I also agree that things are not simple. The Minister or the police are ahead of a big decision on how to mediate. Here, in terms of judging someone, whether it's enough, if I may say, aggressively or under-aggressively, or if you've acquired too much power in certain cases, is a rather delicate matter. From this point of view, given everything that's been going on, it seems to me that it's pretty unfair to quote or interpellation. The Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council - I don't know what you're talking about, we heard that a few months ago. The Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council, as far as I know, is also normally working at all local levels. With regard to the electoral record, we should have done this a long time ago. We're talking about human rights. I don't know what was at issue with what we accepted here in this National Assembly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And we had to do it. I will certainly vote against the interpretation. It's lucky they found a snail in an isolation hospital, not human tissue. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Majdo Potrat to the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Indeed, we have a few hours of discussion behind us, and it is likely that many people have been confused by the judgment of what is in interpolation, and what has been said at the time of interpolation, even a sense of revision has been lost to some. I would like to say in the introduction that I have not signed the interpretation, but I will vote in favour of the interpretation of Minister Matei's work. Mr. Secretary, I was given to learn your rhetorical skills in this performance. Unfortunately, I must say that you have not aroused in me any more confidence in rhetoric than the skill of manipulating words to those who are meant for words. When you turned to headphones and listeners, you said you had to tell them what an interpolation is. Interpellation is dealt with in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the first paragraph of Article 250, where it literally states, "at least 10 Members may interpellate about the work of the Government or the individual minister." It is said that work is nowhere in the articles intended for interpretation, a speech that the cause or cause of interpretation may be merely a violation of the law, as paragraph 1 of Article 253 also speaks of the possibility that the interpellationers may then propose a decision which discusses the assessment of the government or the assessment of the work of the minister. So the work that you can discuss in interpretation is certainly very extensive. If I try to twist it into a single word that is crucial to the work of the Minister of the Interior, then surely security is the key word, in all the different forms that appear, to say that, in all the different dimensions, but what upsets me most about security is that when people think about security, we often also have to decide how we will draw the line between security and respect for human rights. That is why, in the debate, I will mainly stick to those things that cover this very area of human rights. And when I was talking about you being a skilled rhetoricalist, I was thinking about that part that wasn't written in the interpolation, but you touched it yourself, and that's why I'm going to use it as an illustration myself. You said that the opposition MPs and MPs are talking about deleted. You'd rather use the "persons who haven't settled their residence status." If you proposed instead of being unregulated, your establishment or label would still be neutral. Here you have done what is perfectly clear from your conduct and regulation of legislation that we cannot get close to solving problems, problems and constitutional decisions on deleted ones. In fact, you attributed responsibility to them because they're the people who didn't set themselves up, so they're guilty, they're burned. But it was already found that they had been wronged. Similarly, you have shuddered in your response to interpolation in the part where the talk about observation is a secret observation. True, you say that "observing the form of police work that is intended for," and then you continue to explain what the purpose of this form of work is, and then you also say that "in view of the alleged illegal implementation of disguised methods and means you give the following answer: The police have done all the tasks solely within the framework of regulations and powers..." - and now there's an interesting explanation. The notes in the diary of events on the Police Administration were not secret - well, they were not secret, as they were also published, and the record itself due to the frequency of events is usually a quick and short summary of the event that happened or the orders that were sent. Terminology to be used in the above mentioned cases [[the records, it should be]] is used, not prescribed. It's actually a blurry fact. And if I were to make an analogy with another case that we had on the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I would not have assigned you a Member or Members and Members of the Coalition because they did not recognise observation as methods. But let's leave the analogy now, because I don't think it's possible to compare everything on average. What I would like to do to you, however, is to read about Ambrus and this point on my own, as clear evidence of an overstatement of powers, but events on a famous night that I did not follow, not after the yellow press, because I created a judgment on the event according to the records in the three biggest Slovenian journals and according to the national report. If these are now the yellow media, then another debate must be opened, but after all that I have seen there, I have clearly heard that after the megaphone gathered by Ambrušan and the surrounding people you have assured that the Strojan family will never return to their territory. And that's an eccentric excess of your powers, and that's what I'm telling you. The machineries were the first in this country to be deprived of their right of residence, indeed, by your explanation that they asked you to take them away, as Mr Puksič had explained to us earlier, that they are now thanking you for all that has happened to them for a year that they were looking for a new place. That's another story now. But what you did more than you were allowed and for which you should apologize and admit that it was too much, is that you assured the Ambrusians that they would never return there. I know that it is the same assurance that they will not come to Grosuplje, given by the Prime Minister of the Government. You don't talk about it in public. But these are things that are a violation of the fundamental human right to the right to choose to stay. And the same thing happened in Postojna, because I can't imagine that everything that happened there was in Postojna, and what I saw again on public television - car legs in the late evenings when police stopped cars and now it says that "the police stopped because of violations of road safety regulations, driving without a driver's license, more people in the vehicle than allowed, driving without a driving licence." But the fact was, at the time, you stopped on the road because they wanted to go to their place of residence. I don't know how you can convince the public that they voluntarily gave up their place of residence when they wanted to return to their place of residence and when we all watched through the public media together for the unacceptable underestimation of the president of the country who drove the container on that winter night before Christmas. All of these are things - besides you acting or speaking instead of the police - that are a reason enough for me to realize, however, that everything in your actions is not so spotless. I understand that some who are only the first term in this National Assembly and believe that politics has only just started with them and have time problems, not only in investing in interpretation, but also in scheduling historical events, this is a major problem that we have often witnessed to them, but to see how the essence of interpretation is precisely to point out mistakes in conduct. I focused only on one of them because of these mistakes, because I found out how human rights can be good market goods for some, because they protect them when they want to and beat them when it is their interest. With the majority of coalition members in all working bodies, it is easy to vote against the opposition, so what has been found on any working body has no weight as well as no error, I do not tell Ambrušany and others in the area that on February 2nd they have collected 959 signatures in support of Minister Matthew because everyone in this country has the right to write a petition. It does not seem right to me, however, that the coalition Members are now using this petition as a means of demonstrating how the Minister acted correctly. This is manipulation for those of you who haven't read this letter. In the first paragraph, there is a description of the situation of fifteen years, in fact, the most interesting thesis, which says that the requirement for a definitive regime of non-sustainable conditions has been expressed, since the final regulation was essential. The second paragraph is the recognition and thanks of Minister Matei and then follows what is understood to be that those who have prepared Minister Matei in their conduct have promised them that they should not be promised to appear in front of the Slovenian public now as very understanding and tolerant people. This is a signal that politicians and responsible Members and Members who care about human rights should not send to the Slovenian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Member of the School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I'm going to continue where I ended up earlier, following your procedure, and I apologize for the misunderstanding. Look, Minister, and now I will try to be as precise as possible so that there will be no more misunderstandings about asking the police to step away from some of the activities and the minister from the police, and the second is to demand the opposite. I'm going to repeat to the minister what the findings are as far as the Plut case is concerned. The Minister here is marked by gross negligence and extreme carelessness, or the abandonment of due diligence for the safety of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because the competent authorities have not done everything to prevent Slovenian citizen Silva Pluto, accused of cruel murder in the Republic of Serbia, from serving a new crime of rape and murder in a terrible way in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm aware that this is a very serious qualification. What's it based on? In our view that Mr Mate is objectively responsible for the abandonment of police control over Silva Pluto as a dangerous person, despite being called upon by Interpol's tyrant for Pluto, for the service of murder in a horrendous manner and for other crimes. Furthermore, as a result of the termination of the Institute of Conditional Forgiveness and the Institute of International Torture, which, in particular in this case, has lost its purpose and the violation of a type of law. Of course, these are not things that a group of ten Members would have invented. May I remind you, Mr Minister, and others who accuse us of misusing this session, what people who have certainly been qualified to do so at the time have thought. First we go to Mr. Bojan Potočnik, former V.D. the Director-General of the Police. What's he saying? "In the case of Plut, he cancelled the police management system for the operation of which those who run it are responsible. These are the Director of the Roma Police and Minister Mate." Dusan Mohorko, former director of the Crime Police. "It does not matter whether the data on which the suspicions are based are official or unofficial, whether they have come with the recommended mail or not, the police must act in the same way that the crime was committed in Slovenia. This means filing an accusation and collecting the necessary evidence." Marko Pogorevc, the former Police Director-General estimates that the police had more than enough information to substantiate the suspicion and should hold Pluta while Serbia and Montenegro obtain all the necessary documents. "When I was the Director General of Police, the police had frequent meetings with the prosecution. The prosecutors and I agreed that such a person should be supervised somehow when he comes out of prison. This could have been entirely informally done by police leaders and criminals, where such a man who came from prison lived, etc. Look, all the people who were involved in the recent history of the Slovenian police believe that the police and the Ministry did not do what they were supposed to do. That's what we read to the Minister. In his reply, he defends that they had no legal basis to control the suspect. Here comes that plant, I hope you do not sit on your ears again, because a few months later the police can be unobstructed and in accordance with the law, according to the Minister-General, according to the Attorney-General, they say only a few months later, they can register all the activities of the members of the family, today many times. The rules haven't changed in between. We don't ask for one thing, another thing. But for the first time, it is clear that the Ministry and the police have not done something and should, and for the second time, have probably exceeded their powers and reached out to privacy. That's it. That's why it's not about turning around. And we need a clear answer to that. To these great actions and thanks, which are now coming from both the Strojan family and from all the bad 1,000 signatories, I am asking another question. Mr. Minister, how much more did all these operations cost the police and the Slovenian state? A similar question was raised a while ago from the journal and it seems that this is a severely incriminated company, for if anyone is talking to them, this is a reason for serious accusations. I hope that by quoting their question, I will not receive similar treatments, but the answer that I can get as a Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. But I call to the word the apostle James the Presbyterian. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Pojbich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u162	Your Honor! At the beginning of my brief argument why I will not support the interpretation of the Interior Minister, Mr Dragutin Mate, I must make it very clear and point out that the interpretation I have put forward is unfounded. Why? For the first time, unacceptable and unfair, and even if it is legitimate, it seems to me to interpel the Minister, who, in my opinion, is the absolute best Minister of the Interior, which we have ever had, from Slovenia's independence to today. In particular, I stress that it is unacceptable that this is happening right at the time of Slovenia's historic event for the Slovenian government, when Slovenia holds the Presidency of the European Union. Another time. It will be written in the history of Slovenia that this Minister, who is a Slovenian country, has brought an extremely demanding negotiation and a lot of political wisdom of day and night labor into the Schengen area. This means that prisoners have fallen at the borders of the European Union. He is the only minister who hoped, when it was an incident at the border with Croatia at Hotiz, to decide to defend the integrity of Slovenian territory by all means. The Minister, who, together with the Director-General of the Slovenian Police, prevented Mr Romsk from politicising the Slovenian police. He is a minister who advocates for his employees, as before his arrival at the Ministry wages were heavily fed, as well as poor technical equipment, poor rolling stock. And under such conditions, it is not easy to achieve the results stated by the Minister in his reply, and therefore he certainly does not deserve interpretation, but especially praise. And for the third time, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues, Minister Mate is a man to me who has also demonstrated a particularly respectful attitude, not only to employees in his ministry, but also to Slovenes and Slovenes. I have not yet heard that any serious comments would fall on Mr Matei's account and on his work, except for those which, according to my assessment, are unfounded, which are recorded in interpretation, with one and only purpose, and in a well-chosen moment, that you are trying to harm those who are parties to this interpretation in every way to the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of the Interior, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because you cannot bear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister are successful in leading the EU, as well as the countries of the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are very well aware of those who are only interested in government in this country. Some of you who are signatories to this interpolation have also shown at some point how well you care about the Slovenian people, when you have very seriously criticised the decisive action of the Slovenian police when it was about its decisive intervention with Hotiz and which has very successfully prevented incidents between the Strojan family and the Ambrus family. At that time, some of the signatories of this interpretation wished that Slovenian police and Minister Mate would not be successful in their responsible work, but you remained empty. And when you found that you failed to convince the Slovenian public that the work of the Minister and Government was bad when it came to these events, you cited in the interpretation as one of the arguments for interpretation, the event in Ambrus. So, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister Mate! My support to you, Mr. Minister, and to your work, is now even stronger, as your responses to the interpellation and your past work have convinced me that you are a minister who deserves all the respect and strong support in carrying out the noble acts that you are doing unselfishly and in accordance with the law and in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirco to my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much. "Mate go home" - these were the addresses that appeared before the interpolation. It is said that the interpretation in many Slovenian media has called for the responsibility of your actions. Today and in the interpolation, some are listed, you have avoided the obvious actions and talked about everything else in the pianist era. Today, then, after 19 hours, there was no answer to Mr Petk's very exact question, which asked about the contract, about the exact questions surrounding the Plut case. And if we are already in the Pluto case, allow me to ask you another additional question, which comes from the assumption that you have forged or that you have prepared a report of extraordinary police control over the police procedures that have been carried out within the MNZ in the case of Plut. We know that there is one of your interpretations that tells us that the police could have acted differently, that they were too focused on international activity and so on, you know that exactly. And on page 16 of the long report itself, which brings different results. When you presented the results of the emergency surveillance report at the press conference, we read the headlines that the police in the Plut case did not do everything that the Slovenian police did not do everything they could in the case of Plut, this was shown by the extraordinary supervision of the Ministry of the Interior. You've been defending this for yourself. A number of those involved were surprised, including those who are no longer in the police force today. So, also on this double report or allegedly prepared report, I would like an answer that would confirm that there was no response in the case of Plut. However, Minister Mate, however the vote ends today, objective responsibility will be present. You're gonna live with her. There's been some death. Perhaps some of them should not be, but if things were to be different, we would have to live with it. I am not saying that you will have to live with that objective responsibility, which I resent, not, or subjectively, when the Schengen border was so nicely established, the prisoners were unlocked, or when the Slovenian flag disappeared at the border when it fell, and all this state-of-the-art with it, which you carry so many times on your mouth. But, Mr. Mate, you will also have to live by not having the police in your mandate, but by having the lice guards take over the police. Not only did the villagers stop police cars, they even prevented the president of the country from moving on the road. You'll have to live with that. You allowed the road to happen, as it was written today or just before today's debate, you allowed someone else to make arrangements and work order, but you were making a mess. But you allowed when you took the tape recorder into your hands and told them what to do in Ambrus and where to go those who are still protected by the Constitution, regardless of what their origins are and what they are thought of in the Slovenian space, otherwise the annual report of the European Centre for the Control of Racism and Xenophobia would not have made it clear in Slovenia that disputes and demonstrations against Roma settlements promoted by the local population had become common. Once before you, four years ago, your boss had a megaphone in his hand. This pattern has been repeated, and even though your minister is such a good minister, our minister, I apologize, he will have to live with it. You will also have to live with what you are and what you say you are today, you say no, in Brussels, when you deny the existence of a problem that concerns deleted in Slovenia. That's the kind of message we got. And you will live by the fact that, at the time of the presidency, you, as responsible for drafting the legislation for which your predecessors, when you have not yet had this political function, have so claimed to be regulated, have not. You should. And now he's in Brussels. You say, "Yes," you deny it. You deny the problem that the whole of Europe is pointing its finger at us. Tough problem, you didn't blame him, but you're here, and you're on "hearing" and you said you were gonna take him out. Now to refer to the fact that the opposition is not cooperative: "No. No, I don't." During the 12th, barely a decade of debate came a number of comments. Those who followed this debate, let's say a call or a recording from the field, one of the key in the self-sustaining war says when he talks about the police you say is intense, it's good, it's strengthened, it's educated, everything, it's effective, and I say, as the data tells me, it's not. So says one of the key protagonists in the self-sustaining war, saying, "From the police, clearly, the police have left those who did not want to give in to the minister and his colleagues in the police force in order to reduce their professional attitude, reduce their professional attitude." Because of this crack in the police department that you're presenting today, I'm going to end up with that portion that Interpol really isn't talking about, but a cop in the police department. According to the research that you did not mention today, because of course you were talking about Makarovič-Tomšič's research, and the very practical research for each government minister, especially just before the elections, which was made for a quick 14-day expertise, and for a lot of money. Well, you didn't mention those other studies, there are many, among other things, who say that police officers in the Slovenian Army are exposed to unwanted physical abuse. For example, almost 18, 12% are those that happen to them monthly or almost 10% of those that happen to them this week, verbally, about the pressures in short, I'm not going to summarize them, the expertise is also long. That's the problem, too. I believe you'll meet him again and try to save him. You will have no doubt until autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you, too. I invite Ambassador Alenka Jeraj to my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you. I would like to read one of the readings that you are quoting from the interpellations that you are saying to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragontin Mate, that there is a clear violation of the Law on the Registration of Election Rights because, in some cases, part of the release was made possible for persons who are already dead because of the inaccurate and lack of a special electoral directory. And I'm joining a MAG reporter here who says how to get a dead man to vote and round up one of the presidential candidates, probably only in Zares and LDS, because their client is almost dead. Since there are some similar flowers in the text and because I think Minister Mate is a good and successful minister, I will not support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your interesting contribution. And Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word. He's not here. Member Grimes has the floor. He's not here. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. I've finally met this important hour. I would like to ask one question, in fact, it may not be possible to get an answer, given the time that has already passed for the Minister. It's just that we've read a lot about buying, I don't know, the 25th or 35th luxury field vehicles of the Volkswagen brand for the needs of the police. Given that he has a certain budget, namely the budget and the budget, which is dedicated to the needs of the police, the Minister of the Interior has a word, I ask how it is possible that he has allowed the purchase of such expensive vehicles, while for the first time not being useful for working on normal roads, it is said on regional, state and motorways, but more for field driving. Maybe our police will go to Afghanistan together, or Chad, along with the military, and that's why they'll need these vehicles. But I think we need equipment to ensure greater road safety and that the police must be provided with appropriate equipment. Here I think that the decision to purchase such a purchase has been extremely wrong and I think that the Minister is responsible for such a decision, because, for example, we were discussing in the Road Safety Act that we are significantly short of fixed or radar devices in order to limit speed, the average speed on our roads. I do not understand why the decision to buy too expensive and too few vehicles for our police officers could be solved by buying a substantial lower price for fast enough, or even much faster, vehicles that police officers could use in their work on the road, at the same time purchasing a certain additional number of cameras or radars so that they could better control the speedy drivers. We who drive very much along the roads, that is to say on state roads and highways, can ensure that, regardless of the questions that we have heard on the radio today, "Do you think that the speed situation could be solved by these cameras as well?", the answers were mostly, "Oh, that doesn't help at all," and so on. The fact is, everywhere in Europe where fixed cameras are set, speeding is significantly lower, due to the fact that violators hit it in the pocket. I think it's too late now. It is said that behind political milk there is no point in crying. But I think we could get something out of this. First years and years and then all of a sudden, my dad always called it beta once, once with a dog. That seems to be the case with us. Let's put as much money into luxury as possible and make as much money as possible. Instead of taking care of road safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. However, I invite Member Branko Marinič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, also a nice greeting to the minister with the team, who is now justifiably absent. I believe it's not easy. We Members and Members are not spared either, and we have to think damn well and interpret things as we see them and read them. I am just a Member who, for the first time in this term, did not have the opportunity to meet the contents, I do not know how many interpretations. My colleagues and colleagues who have more experience in this area surely know much more than I do. But what I have to point out in terms of the content of this interpretation, I know roughly how this is going to work, and it's probably around here that there are individual experts who are working somewhere in the background of individual representatives of the parliamentary groups, and believe me, when I read the content of this interpretation I've been dealing with just some of them, I have to say problems. We struggle in this sense that I finally asked myself, "So who is this expert who described each chapter?" Many times I also remembered a fellow Member, who I know is also aware that the Slovenian language is beautiful, that the divorces were placed where they should be; it also disturbed me, all of them. It's an unreality. And I'm really telling you that I met, right in the context of this interpretation, with words that brought me maybe ten, twenty years ago at some other time and I got the feeling that it was made up of police experts who know a lot about the police, but from another previous period. It even intervenes in 1972 when it describes the content and substantiates individual chapters of interpretation. But I don't want to talk about it, I want a little more on the content. Since we're heading towards the end of this interpretation, I'm actually going to start on the back of the proposed interpolation chapter six. What you know about the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate and, as a result, the Director-General of the Slovenian Police is, in fact, the poor functioning of the police in the local environment. Whether, respected and respected in particular, those who made up the content of this interpretation were aware of and whether they had looked at the actual picture in the Republic of Slovenia, how police officers who control certain security environments today cooperate with local communities. Never before and never so substantively transparent, where these police officers operating in the area of the local community engage in preventive, curative activities in order to help, advise, educate people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I have to remember many times on my first day of school. Who do we see? Police officers engaged at every transition in the area of primary schools. It's the police's operation! Police officers in some local communities, where police have moved to other places because of rationalisation, where police officers have so-called offices, such as Members and Members in certain environments. There they work, there they are available to advise that they work and not really what some of you are describing today is too few cops on the ground today. Yes, of course, a few years ago it took more because, however, today this technique and technology, communication has progressed and it is not necessary for a policeman to actually be put in that period that was a decade ago. This is where the police made progress, equipped themselves, and trained their own kind of police. And I really need to say and point out at least some of the activities of these police officers that are actually dealing with the treatment of some local environment. When you saw in the past in local publications, in the local newspapers of individual congregations, in the so - called municipal newspapers of a police officer who is responsible for a certain security environment, that people would know that they would read everything about him to bring him closer to every citizen if he needed help. They also appear on local television networks to communicate with the people they are protecting. And as far as it's been lately, maybe in those less developed areas where I come from, where the illicit drug sale and fission have broken down. It is these officers who provide basic data so that the authorities in the Ministry of the Interior can then act in a timely manner. Of course, that will never be enough, it is exemplary and exemplary police cooperation in this respect with citizens and citizens at the local level. And you can't possibly read this to Minister Matthew like you told him, like I said in the last, sixth chapter of the interpolation. And honourable Members, allow me to conclude with this thought: "If the proponents were so concerned with Slovenian families as they are about the Strojan family, many Slovenian families would live better today!" It is true that you have not paid greater attention to this in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u172	Yes, the Strojans are also a Slovenian family, but what we want if some people think they're not, it's very bad. But the minister needs to be congratulated. And for at least three things. First of all, because nothing touches him. He's not interested in interpolation, but he writes and says what he thinks should be said here. Bravo. Thirdly, because he managed to arrange with television to extend the transmission for an hour and that he was there in the last hour. It's probably not him. It's his who's doing this to him. And most importantly, he was able to convince his Members, some, to the point that they were so passionately defending or rejecting this interpretation that they went straight across. One here even got rid of statements about how it was already proven that someone yesterday, before yesterday, carried some documents from the Ministry and so on. At 7:00 p.m. on television, the Prime Minister said he couldn't judge anyone because he didn't know because the case hadn't been investigated and so on. Someone from the SDS gets rid of these statements. And it's repeated and it's claimed and it's supposed to be credible proof of the credibility of this government. Minister, I believe that it also sounds unconvincing to you, if in your favor, with much hatred for some fellow citizens, advocates or rejects interpretation, someone who in 2004 demonstrated against the part of the Slovenian population before the Slovenian government. If this is how it is transmitted, then it was on the street, now it's in Parliament. You know who it was, and it's very unconvincing all of this, if this is the way you think, the way the ministry works, so the government, because this is the way government Members defend your work. I want to discuss it at the principal level. What is it you want? That this police force, I wanted, in the part about which Mrs. Potara has very well been elaborating the excess, even in my opinion, the powers that should apply to the director of the police, I would like this police to differ from the militia or from the former police, if I may say that the rule of law, relative autonomy, as defined by law, the commitment of the police to ethical standards, respect for the rights of the individual, regardless of racial, ethical or other personal differences, professional efficiency, and relative control over the rule of law and civil society, over this entire activity. And we're doing this thing here today. The fact is that that interpretation statement, which speaks of the fact that we do have a separate role of the police in the legislation and we know who is in charge of it and how it is commanded. Let's leave mandatory instructions, as you tell them, that's normal and permissible and right, because they belong in an organ. Here remains a bitter taste, or is it really this police who provides protection to all citizens and that everyone is equally available, at any end of the country and whatever it looks like or whatever it will be written or whatever it belongs to. That's what we need to talk about. The findings are that this was a different understanding of the role of the police and the role of the minister, the director of the police or someone else who is still responsible in this story. We're different here. We think you've taken things too firmly into your own hands. Someone said what was wrong if the minister took matters into his own hands and arranged them, because Minister Beast also took them into his hands for a while, and then he gave a hot bone to another minister from the SLS because he thought he was going to burn himself, and together I think they solved it pretty solidly, but that doesn't take away from what's the basic obvious. And when we're talking about what's basically a fundamental obvious, there's been a lot of demagogy and also a lot of twisting, and once we say one, we say the other. In this part there is indisputably the fact that I have been talking about and, as I said, Mrs Potrata has explained in sufficient detail enough that there is no need to repeat it. However, when it comes to Global and Lipa cases and other or such private security services, and so on, then you come forward and there is an acknowledgment of abandonment of the act, do not withdraw the licence after the complaints and so on. And we think differently here, too. I would like this interpretation to contribute to the whole thing at least so much that we learn from it, because it hopes to succeed and I also think it is misunderstood if it is immediately apparent that a debate opens up, which is a problem of the functioning of the rule of law, the protection of human rights and of security and of the situation in this country at all, these are discussions that must always be open. Because it is very dangerous if the police in a democratic society are the ones who do not serve in the function of these fundamental values, but the policy is the one that in some way is used too harshly within these relations. And when I'm talking about this resignation, I think it's about abandoning the mandatory act, acting on a certain security service. How can it be that we hear here today and do not answer very clearly that you have allowed time to register a company with all its contracts, with all its employees or contracts and it acted as if nothing had happened, but those people who are, many are former colleagues of the police, many are ex-military, many are former from other jobs and so on. It's all happening between acquaintances that I'm not going to say, more acquaintances. Here, let's discuss where these boundaries are. I would like to see something that has happened in the past in this area continue. Standards have already been reached in this country, but in other countries there is still a way that, when objective responsibility arises, the Minister has resigned and Mr Bizjak has resigned for a significantly smaller matter. He resigned because of his objective responsibility. Do you know him? Mr. Bizjak has resigned. Or death victims, which may also be the result of a lack of action. Let's compare what this is about, but I don't want to compare it, but I want to say that we are discussing whether it was in some case or the next case, because the coalition in which I simply dropped one minister is the same as the interior minister, because it was obvious to him, and this is certainly a smaller case, and it was dropped when it came to some sort of politicisation of a case from the past that I would not go into detail. I understand that this is a matter of different reputations, a different idea of what someone would like when it comes to implementing legislation in this area, and it would be good to have a serious discussion about it. I don't enjoy it when someone gives up, when someone changes and so on. However, I am not happy when uncritically everything is rejected and, in the case of a case, the whole system is not being upgraded and the situation in society is not improving, but then I am unhappy. And if I go back to the plates that you wrote red up there, how much we saved for the registrations, you'll find we didn't. I explained to Mr Chernač earlier that he does not have the right information, and that is true. It is true that the amendment of legislation has improved in one part, and I agree with the removal of the stickers. In that part, which is probably just a matter of instruction or a rule, but when it is necessary to change the plates is an additional cost, it is an additional cost. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] [[Excuse me?]] Or the matter of the law you proposed? [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] That's not true. [[...]] 2004 was still possible to do so. You've fixed it three times.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u173	I owe you one. Please sign up for the microphone when you want to talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u174	On your initiative, we fixed it when we removed the stickers, and we would have put away the rest of the souls. In the autumn of 2004, this was still possible. Even today, if you make up some stupid password, you order it and carry it on. And that's still today, and I don't see why there wouldn't be any common plates. When you talk about how impossible it is to talk about data, about individual cases, when it comes to complaints, when it comes to investigations and so on, but keep your souls calm or your people tell the media about specific people. We had already talked about an unauthorized or authorized criminal who had been instructed to mediate in public. But when you're asked about some things here, I agree that you can't talk, but I'd like to know that if I read in the paper, that I'm like nine months ago, that I'd at least have some kind of notice today, or I'm not, or it's going to happen or something. Nothing. In the paper, and this from your ministry, it's readable. And as a victim, I simply do not have any notice on your part. So, what are we talking about? Newspapers do, but not directly affected.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Milenk Zichrl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the Minister and to all those present, who continue at this hour in this Chamber. I will briefly explain my support for the Minister in late times and strongly reject the interpretation. Interpellation can be compared to the design, based on insinuations or many times at the level of the yellow press. Today, we have heard many answers that have rejected all these references. Perhaps I would have stopped in Ambrus, which proved to be the right thing to do, to prevent a conflict between the two sides. I find it distasteful, according to the victims, to build interpellations on the tragedies that have taken place in Lipa and Global. Just the latest investigations into the Lipa tragedy show that it is the sole responsibility of the owner, who is simply an organisational approach, to enter freely by 10 a.m., to cause this uncontrolled entry into the premises before which the tragedy occurred. In addition, it now appears that in addition to registered security guards, he had some employees in black, at least so to read in the daily press. The question is, did he follow all the rules? I guess not. There's something similar about Global. We heard today that the unsub had plenty of time to retreat to safety. I would remind myself of a similar tragedy that occurred years ago under another minister, and we did not discuss it. That is, we all know well the famous Slovenian hockey player Marcel and David Rodman, their father was killed by someone over a parking dispute outside a store. The one who became a victim escaped in the parking lot and the killer came after him to the store and shot him in cold blood and then got lost in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. It's just that it happened under another minister, and no one has interpelled this minister. Therefore, once again, I support the Minister and strongly reject the allegations that are being interpreted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much. However, Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. He's not here. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I would like a word after hearing some of the answers I have not heard, but in view of our procedure, certain things will have to be repeated and we will see if Mr Minister is ready to respond. What I can say after today's debate is that I am not particularly surprised by the ease with which MEPs and SDS members in particular reject the interpretative statements. That shows that famous arrogance, if you're going to discuss it when our predecessors, your colleagues, were even worse. But this kind of defense actually does a bad job to the minister, because we don't talk about things, but in fact, on our part, we listen to the justifications of the mistakes in the work of the current minister, and on the part of our colleagues in the position we hear about the things that happened five years ago and even nine, ten years ago. I can't understand what this introduction and removal of the label has to do with today's interpolation, but we've heard a lot about it. We have already been put into this by the Minister with his reply, and it seems that it would be enough for anyone in the position to defend the Minister by commending a move that was not, by chance, disputed by those who signed the intervention. I just don't understand this any different than a manoeuvre not to talk about the things we've put on the agenda, but of course we're talking about Minister Bohinc, Minister Bandl, and I don't know which ministers there are. If I were to recall their situation in the National Assembly, I should say that there has never been such a blind faith of Members regarding the work of the Ministers of the Coalition. They had to do much more to defend their actions in this House. Much more so, Mr. Stabe. You can see that for yourself. There is a rich parliamentary library with all the magnetograms and all the records. The minister here talked a lot about some statistics. He's just using the data that's useful. And I wouldn't repeat now what we've been learning about statistics and what we've heard. And of course, statistics allow for different interpretations. But what is embarrassing about this reference is that these studies cannot be seen in an integral text and, if I am not still wrong, despite the interests of certain people, is not accessible, or has not been accessible to the general public for a very long time. But this is also not so important, for in those studies there are also some problematic views as to how police officers trust their superiors, how they understand the attitude of their superiors toward them as, to put it mildly, problematic and so forth. Let us leave Slovenian statistics alone and ask the Minister if he has ever looked at statistics from the Eurostat European Statistical Office. But there are, I'll say, some data that can't be provided by public procurement or by some sort of commissioned research. One of these data says when it measures the rise in crime, that the increase in crime is the largest in our country, as it is every year to track down more than a dozen crimes. Poland follows us. I ask him how, in all this glory, he sings in the National Assembly about his normative work, which he has done on the organisation of the police, about the reorganisation of which, as he himself has said, he has been keeping a close eye all the time. How does it explain that, despite all this, our country, according to Eurostat, I hope that you will not have any, I will say, specialised left-wing mobs are also accused of sending bad data to this office to make this happen to us. I kind of don't get along with everything you've been telling us here and what your colleagues have been saying. Of course, I offer you questions about this Eurostat data to remind you that some of the specific things you might have answered, but you haven't yet, I asked you if you are ready to tell me as Minister whether a procedure has been initiated, whether there has been any complaints about clientist receptions at the Ministry of Health, and whether there have been any problems with public money management at the Ministry of Health. I didn't spread it on purpose; others are other things. Look, you in the Police Act, in the correction we adopted in July 2006, somehow assured yourself that you too could give information and inform yourself of the tasks performed by the police. At that time, we concluded that you wrote this supplement to cover the disputed treatment of the famous case of Fishichič. But this law is now in force. You're here before us. As my colleague Anderlich said, they're leaking various data from the Ministry into the newspapers, and for what we're asking you, we'd like you to answer us here. That's why I'm asking today the second or third time. You've answered everything you can, unfortunately not. Of course, for many of your actions since July 2006, coverage is also in the amended Police Act. As Mr Kumer said a while ago, of course this amendment of the law and the amendment of the Law on Public Servants is the basis for which we believe that matters concerning the organisation of the police, the position of the police within the Ministry or the Government, that this is the foundation that makes this situation worse, less self-sustainment, makes it possible to be more politicized and therefore poses difficulties in trusting in the leadership of these institutions. As a result, it means a flight of personnel, and in the end, it blurs out what can be said by one concept of the erosion of the security system. This question and talk in this house is not as if some handball player, as my colleague Pukšič said, was attracted to hair, but is a systematic discussion that goes beyond this mandate, but when we talk about the situation of the police also through several mandates, even through the previous one. That's why it's obvious to you that we're only doing this because the Minister of SDS, most mildly speaking, is funny, for those who sit in Parliament and read magnetograms, and, of course, offensive. Minister, you owe us a lot of answers. I have no doubt how the colleagues in this house will decide on the final decision. But it can certainly happen to you, as it did to Minister Simoniti and as it did to Minister Bručan, that tomorrow they will marry you to successfully defend your work, your procedures. But there will be very few people who will believe that this was defended by the power of argument, but of course by the power of the majority. All those things that we have read to the previous two ministers have, in fact, led to repeated and repeated questions in public. One minister then had to sacrifice a prime minister for the peace of the house. In fact, because of the procedures that were somehow made public through the interpolation, the other minister in that area is no longer respected. Therefore, it would be more important, Mr Minister, if we were to talk today about the circumstances, why something had been done. A lot of people would probably get an understanding for a move. It is known that things on paper are one thing when they work on the ground, something else. But your approach and your performance that you did everything right that everyone before you did not actually reach your knees and that if you did not act in such a way that everything would be wrong, that we should be grateful for it, of course it does not lead to such a kind of understanding of these situations, but that you think that you do not actually want to have a discussion about the problems that are, let alone put accounts for any mistakes. That you ask in individual cases, I'll say, a client colleague or I'll say, a sympathizer, Madam Attorney General, whether something was in accordance with the law or not. This will tell you in kindergarten how she will answer if you ask her whether Minister Rupel or any of your company acted in accordance with the law or not. I bet they'll always say you did the right thing. That's what we're used to. But this does not mean that these procedures are not judged by others that everyone believes these claims. And in this regard, you have given an excellent opportunity to be commended by someone more than those who are very nervous to sit here for 12 or 14 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Jozet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Despite this late hour, I'd just like to say a few words. First of all, with regard to the seriousness of the applicants. More or less, the page on which the signatories to the interpolation sit is empty. It is only now that two of the first-signed groups from the Zares Group have come. In fact, this speaks mainly of the fact that this project of their application for interpretation is not serious. Much more so in defense or in attacking a minister are those who have not signed the interpretations. This is the SD Group of Members, and this also indicates in some way a technology approach to these problems, to this project. You said you wouldn't actively attack the ministers during the presidency. In fact, it is formal with the signature of the interpolation you did not do this. By your very active approach to dealing with this, you have actually shown that you may even be the actual sponsor of this project and the one behind it. The other thing that's very obvious about dealing with this interpolation is that it shows in some way some technology approaches individual solutions, to individual things. This technology is the same for all these projects that we have dealt with last week. The good things that we propose in the coalition make a very strong bombastic attack with negative reasoning, with negative emphasis. That's what happened in the student diet, which is what happened in the law on patient rights. None or no other area has been regulated in this long self-sustainment period. You haven't done anything at the time, but you've discredited both of you as much as possible. It's very similar to the landscape project. Even a long period of self-reliance in this decentralisation project has done nothing concrete, but when some concrete arguments were put on the table, this project was rejected for such or other reasons, for political reasons, for unjustified reasons. And now we're all doing a lot of work, and above all, you're dealing with documents that are escaping from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and all of this shows in some way already in preparation maybe for a new interpretation that will follow. Similarly, there were many words in the presidential elections about how the government was doing badly, how everything needed to be fixed and otherwise done. When the opportunity to do so was offered, in fact, it ran out of money and power. He would touch two or three areas. First of all, the Roma areas. Apparently, the Roma in the National Assembly are best known by those who do not live with them who have never been actively involved in these problems. Not as a resident, not as a local official, not as an official elected to the National Assembly. And I'm sorry that we're doing this project this way. This government has made two good projects. One is the matter in Irslin, the other is the solution to the problem in the Children's Village, in Ambrus. With two things, the government has proved itself, it has both settled with dignity, solved the problem both in the Children's Village of the Roma and the inhabitants, and thousands of people have signed the support of the government or the minister, but this case is constantly being dragged out as an example of bad practice. I would be much more pleased to have, on the basis of these two positive experiences in the opposition, put forward proposals for the further resolution of hundreds of other problems in the Roma area, concrete cases, concrete ways. I know that in the wider area of Dolenjska there are very many of these problems, difficult to solve, because things are very outdated, the situation between one part and the other part of the population is very poor, but even when a good case is made, we discredit it. Not only within domestic politics, but let's even get this thing on the European stage. In this mandate, we have had a visit from two European Commissioners for Human Rights. When the problem was solved in Ivy, Alvaro Gil Robles came to us as he solved the problem of the Children's Village, Thomas Hammerberg. I don't know what that was about. I don't know why that's what happened, and that's how it came about. But I don't think that's right. The European Members of some political groups, particularly the Liberal Democracy, have also addressed these two cases on an open European stage, which have proved to be examples of good practice, in the European Parliament. I don't think such a negative approach to things that we're doing very well is appropriate. When, for example, a while ago, a problem occurred in Italy when even a wild settlement at one big city was loaded onto a plane and taken to their homeland, no one in the National Assembly who is thus fighting for human rights from opposition policy, nor our representatives in the European Parliament, who are so in pain of our internal problems, raised their voices. He didn't stand up for himself, and he didn't sign any petitions. It is only when we do something good in our home space that we need to process it immediately on the negative side, without boasting how we have successfully solved the case or cases, but to let the European public know that this matter is bad. I think that by solving problems, if we deal with them in this way, both in the field of internal affairs, Roma affairs and other matters, we cannot take some good steps forward. Since we do not cultivate and make an appearance, we do not fight for these examples to be the right steps, not to boast about them before Europe, but, on the contrary, to discredit ourselves. It's similar to the problem of being erased. There were many, already several heads of government, there were already some governments, I think four before they had a great opportunity to solve the problem deleted in their own way. The coalitions were large, practically in all these periods with two-thirds support. However, all those who warn today that the problem of deleted persons is not solved, you did nothing when you had this opportunity. The solution you proposed in the previous term reached a clarinet conclusion at the referendum. 95% of the citizens of the solution you proposed did not support it. It did not support this two-step solution by means of technical and systemic laws. Sorry, she didn't support it. And now that you've had this painful defeat at the referendum, you want this to be arranged in the same way. You insist and thus prevent the problem from being solved. I think the solution proposed by this government to resolve this through constitutional law is appropriate. It provides sufficient security for all those who wish to regulate this status but, of course, requires individual review, as in any other administrative procedure. I think that those who have a serious intention of solving the problem of the deleted would support the solution proposed. There is no reservation and I do not think it is appropriate to insist on the savings that the citizens have so strongly rejected in the referendum. I think it is even inappropriate and unfair for citizens to be offered solutions that they have decided against. As far as road safety is concerned, there are certain things that need to be said. To a large extent, the most important preventive measure in this area is education. Raising a child, raising a youth, and I think there's too little work done in this area. The examples we give to our children in this area are those that then result in five, seven, ten years from now in relation to those involved in this transport area. It is true that everyone among us also commits a traffic offence, we do not always drive absolutely according to the rules, but I think it is necessary to do more in this part. Every person who takes the exam shall also be familiar with traffic signs, restrictions and I think that during our entire period when we are drivers, something essential in the field of traffic markings will not change. Where there is a round sign, and it says fifty, there is fifty, and where such a sign is written one hundred thirty, there is one hundred thirty. And I think that, even as far as the enforcement of this in that supervisory work by the police is concerned, there is not much to be disputed here, because we have received a certificate that we have control of traffic regulations and that we know how to drive. The driver's license is just a document that basically gives us a certificate that we are a driver who masters the rules and controls the driving and that is satisfactory. And if, in fact, these things cannot be solved, there is something that needs to be given in that curative work, including in criminal policy. And in this area too, certain things and certain situations will have to be changed. But there are, of course, other examples, other ways in which it can actually help drivers, those who are prone to do so, to disperse and also to release adrenaline on these polygons. Many of the things attributed to the Minister in question in this interpretation are practically such or all that are read are those that are said to be in the fifth place for a rational comma. So it's some sort of banal little detail that he's not actually responsible for. In those fundamental things that I would say, this is indeed a mistake made by the minister, such an obvious lack of your interpretation, which is why this interpretation cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Comrade Paula Gantar, we have only two regulars to report, and in the end, you are both a proponent and I will invite you. Thank you for understanding. But the word has been given by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Tanko had just mixed some pears and apples and many of them were rotten. In particular, when he spoke about how Europe does not understand the good practices we are implementing in Slovenia. It is strange that such good practices are then found as bad practices in various reports, international institutions and organisations dealing with the protection of human rights. Mr Gil Robles, Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, obviously did not know what this was about, and the current Commissioner, Mr Hammerberg, obviously knows just as little about what it is. So I'm really surprised at this way of approaching the issue, but of course, once again, there are forces from the centres of power from the background, again at work there is conspiracy, because otherwise there can't be. Well, somehow I would say this, I hope that my colleague Majda will not resent me, I do not fully agree with her when she has given so many compliments to the Minister of the Interior, if she is a very skilled rhetoricalist. It's just that Mrs. Potrata is slightly more literally inspired, and I'm more of a legal bore. In the case of lawyers, it is said that a good rhetoric cannot be proclaimed by the one who speaks inaccuracies and who speaks falsehoods. And Mr. Minister Mate said quite a few things when he was talking about the issue of the deleted. He said he didn't like that look. Okay, it tastes good. But we do know that this is already some "terminus technique" which is also used in the international sphere and is called in English by "rased people", it is deleted. For deleted from the register of permanent population in particular in our situation. And it's not true what he was saying that they didn't want to settle their status. They had an orderly status, as he also praised, among other things, that they had all been citizens of another former republic of the former Yugoslavia. But they were not informed that they had been erased from the register without their knowledge and for no reason. And that's what this is all about. Not now here to deceive the public that they did not want to regulate their citizenship status, but Slovenia was so generous back then in the 1990s and offered them in every way possible to accept Slovenian citizenship for God's sake. Today, the minister spoke a great deal about the success of the police under his ministry. We, too, think that the police, as decimated as they are, are relatively successful. But in the long run, however, it is a big problem if the most responsible positions are politically recruited, if customerism is increasingly spreading in their ranks. If ill-paid police officers are unmotivated and not, after all, significantly more corrupt. Therefore, we are not surprised to hear that they sometimes prefer to look away. Otherwise, you know, this is not a joke if this coalition majority is so insensitive to human rights violations by the authorities, to violations of laws and the rule of law by the authorities and to the abandonment of duty by the authorities. When the authority commits an illegal act, it is not the same, it is worse than if an individual commits a violation of the law, even if it is a criminal offence. And it is to these interpretations that Minister Mate here today has not offered the right answers. Besides, there is a conversation here today between the deaf and the deaf. The Minister answers questions that have not been asked and does not talk about what he was asked. In the middle of the additional forests are also taken care of by some coalitionists, a pity because there is no Mrs Irgle to thank her personally for her concern. And then this mess is perfect, but it only looks like it. In fact, Mr Mate, in his most difficult interpretation, did not give any serious answers because he did not have them and could not give them. In most of the obvious cases, it is a matter of conduct contrary to the law. There is nothing rhetoric can do to help. We can probably all agree on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljublješek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I do not intend to defend the decision of the Minister and the police in individual clear accusations, which are evident from the material of the interpellation investors themselves. Thus, in his written material, especially today in public, the Minister clearly and decisively rejected all charges both from material and from those that were read today, but were not included in the interpretation. The mere submission of interpolation, explanation and today's debate of the opposition is, in my opinion, an empty shot. It is difficult to defend something without arguments, only with some flat-rate assessments, suspicions, truths or half-truths. This is in both the drafters' material and today's debate. I am very grateful that the opposition has made an effort to put this interpretation into practice, which has given the Minister the opportunity to reject these accusations in writing and publicly, and has given the Minister the opportunity, especially to us, the coalition and our Group of Members, to present the work of the three-year ministry of Mr Dragutin Mate. And that's quite something. On the one hand, we need to look at what someone is doing, what was planned, and on the other hand also look at the weak points, the shortcomings that the Minister himself has said. I am sure that he and the police leadership will also try to phase them out at a certain time. That the material of interpolation, the explanation of interpolation is impatient, populist, insulting, not to say even maliciously, to quote one part of this material, which really bothers me, because I don't think that this material is prepared on some professional basis, to quote, "He was acting like a firefighter," says the minister, "who comes to the fire only after the fire has ended and starts to put out, because he doesn't care why it's burned or worse at all. All that matters is that a better image is extinguished in public." This is the content that is supposed to be some serious explanation for interpolation. Certainly, with regard to today's interpolation, I can say this in particular if I give this illustration. It is important to criticise everything and everything, regardless of whether the allegations are false, half-truth or even instigation and lies. All that matters is that it is criticized for a better image in public. And the following statement, which has also disturbed me and was made in the presentation of the interpretation on TV Slovenia, quote: "We are reading that the Minister is dealing with things for which he is not paid." This statement is surprising and undoubtedly shows the mental pattern that some in our society are willing to do this exclusively, and this is only for money, the personal benefit of power and power. I would like to point out that only some, but most of them not only work for money, but also without pay what they believe in, and because others need it, it is with responsibility to everyone else. Secondly, what I think is very problematic from my point of view, and also from the point of view of our Group of Members, is duality. When the Ambrus police acted decisively and professionally, an extraordinary meeting of the mother’s working body was immediately convened. Accusations of repression, overriding the powers of law and requesting the resignation of the Minister. When police in Postojna carried out their work, the charge is to interpellate: disproportionate police intervention in private individuals, some police action leads to the conclusion that the fundamental constitutional principle of proportionality has been violated, certain police actions have undoubtedly intervened or restricted the constitutional rights of individuals. And once again, an extraordinary meeting of the mother's working body, an accusation and a request for the Secretary's resignation, to interfere with human rights. And I ask, "What would happen if, for example, a member of Strojan's family, who could move freely in Postojna, had a physical account, a physical attack?" I'm sure there'd be another special session. Accusation that the police have failed to do their job and request the Minister's resignation. That's the duality. And keep going. When we adopted legislation in this area concerning the security of public order and peace, road safety, the law on private protection, laws on the suppression of crime, the opposition opposed and even voted against. That's the duality. And I think that we should work in this area, I call it, the national interest. In this area, the opposition should be a constructive opposition and make constructive proposals when amending and supplementing the legislation. But not the criticism just the average, all the average and the opposition. It's not like that. I respect the opposition, if correct, but not the opposition, which is a politician who is not constructive and does not actually make these constructive proposals. I'm not going to support this interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to answer most of the questions if I can't do everything. First, I would like to commend the rhetorical abilities of all members of the opposition. Especially those who spoke, how skillfully I spoke and addressed words. Clearly, abilities are well distributed among humans. The only difference is that some have had very long-term education at different institutions to learn this. In my own words, of course, I would like to comment on a few words that I find extremely unusual. One of the Members used the words "my company," czech, where I work. My company is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia where I am employed. But my private company is my private business, and of course none of you have the right to be interested in my private society. I find it extremely inappropriate to talk about the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this way in the National Assembly. There was also talk of the party's belongings to various officials. First of all, let me make it very clear that I am the minister proposed by the SDS ministers' quota, but that I am not a member of any political party myself, and that after three and a half years it is possible for everyone to remember that I am not a party and not to accuse anyone else if he is or is not a member. I don't know. I did not ask him, and of course there is no need for me to ask him this question, so that I can work properly with someone. I have seen several times in discussions of words that mean employees in the Ministry of the Interior and the police as offensive. I think it's inappropriate for us to use the word cops. They're cops. I've also warned myself a few times about what to call me. Not the Minister of the Police, but the Minister of the Interior. The department I'm covering not only covers the police, but a much wider spectrum. Most of this spectrum, as one of the Members correctly identified, touches the area of security. In one way or another, the areas of security are often linked to human rights. I would like to touch two important parts of interpolation in which I am aware of certain activity or inactivity. It's about Pluto. I'm not going to list all the laws, all the regulations that say how something should be done. This has been a long and broad debate in, I think, three different working bodies of this Parliament. Long and wide, this is explained in response to interpolation. However, one fact must be made clear. First of all, that's how the strike relationship was used. All the people who were valid gave an opinion on the Plut issue. Now I'm going to tell you what all these people, who were valid and who were listed by name, I'm not going to repeat what they thought after Pluto was in custody when we arrested him and put him in custody. It was not possible to bring criminal charges against this person for the crime committed in the territory of Serbia all the time. All the time. And all of this society, which had previously interpreted very widely from expert levels, from different sides, how all of this could be done, was then professionally placed on one completely different basis. The fact is that after Plut was detained, when he was arrested, and detained and detained throughout his detention and trial, the Slovenian police, the prosecution, and no one else was able to bring criminal charges against him for the crime he committed in Serbia. This merely indicates that the report made by the supervisory group showed the true picture. However, I would like to comment on what one of the Members stated that I had redecorated or falsified various reports. The report is in the form it used to be. However, it is true that the Government has adopted an opinion on the functioning of the police in this regard, and this opinion contains a sentence which I will quote: "If the police require written guidance on the activities to be carried out, a different decision of the State Prosecutor's Office in a specific case could also be made." This is the text that's on the government's website, everyone can look at it and please don't turn my words around. Don't rhetorically turn them around and say what's not true. I didn't redecorate any reports. It doesn't come to the end of my mind. And at the government itself, we had a discussion about this. And there was a possibility at the time this opinion was adopted that the prosecution might have decided otherwise if they had requested written guidance. And so it is written, literally so it is written. It later turned out that even if this had happened, the consequences would have been such that Mr Plut could not have been held back. Even if the police stopped him and detained him and brought him before the judge, he would still be released later. All further procedures have shown this precisely. On the matter of Strojan’s or family, a Roma family near Ambrus in the Children’s Village. You're all talking about the megaphone, about my getting there, and no one told me what was going on before. And it wasn't even written in the media what happened before that. Before that, I received a call from the director of the police administration, who was then the director of this police department, who informed me that the Strojan family was asking me to come to the scene and try to talk to them and to the locals and find a way. That they feel threatened and that they want to find a solution to get out of this area. No one talks about it, and very little has been written in the media, that I interviewed a group of villagers who represented the mass of people who were there, and that I had a separate conversation with the Strojan family. And they asked me at this interview if we could provide them with security in this area and ask me if we could find any other location to go from this location. And based on this conversation with one group and another, I said what I said. I didn't tell the police what to do there. The police were there, I didn't bring her with me, as if someone could get a feeling that would be reading a magnetogram in 10 years. I didn't bring any police units there. The police were there, carrying out all her activities. I didn't give any orders to any police unit, as I'm told, any of what they have to do. When I left, I merely expressed my belief or opinion that the Director would ensure all necessary security for everyone in the area, both for the locals and for the Strojan family. And the next day, the family drove herself into the vehicles and asked us to lead her to a location that we were able to find where things could be resolved in peace. And that's why they got rid of each other. And that's the truth you don't want to tell or you don't want to see. We had an in-depth discussion on this issue on two working bodies of this Parliament, hours and hours talking about it. And you've already heard what I'm saying, you've heard all this. It looks like we're talking deaf to mute, unfortunately. And then you tell me that I don't answer the obvious, that I don't want to explain anything. I'm explaining, but you don't want to hear this at all. You won't accept it. About the extra costs. One of the Members is of the opinion that we have been asked this question by one of the Slovenian diaries. No, we haven't been asked that from one of the Slovenian diaries. One of the Slovenian journals sent us two pages of questions where my services should work for 14 days to write him the answers. We are not obliged under the Media Law to report and collect data, we are obliged to provide only the data we possess and have in our records. And if you want an accurate answer, how much an extra budget has cost, except for what the Ministry of the Interior has provided for the work of the police, I can give you a very clear answer. Nothing. All the money was provided from budgetary resources that are in the police force and we did not spend even the euro more than we had in the budget, there was no reallocation to this item for the operation of special police units, so I can give you a clear answer in this regard. And if we get a similar question from this daily newspaper, I'd be happy to answer them very briefly and succinctly. I've been told that the Ministry of the Interior and the police are making non-chalant announcements about who was in charge. I apologize, Commissioner, the police had nothing to do with this complaint. This complaint has been filed by one other ministry, which can press charges against someone who thinks it's necessary to press charges. And it wasn't the police involved in writing the complaint, not in the filing of the complaint, and our ministry didn't make any statements. You just go to the website and you'll find everything. I looked at it here. Here, a few minutes ago. And there's something else about the plates that were mentioned earlier. The law which introduced this provision that the plate is attached to the vehicle and not to the owner was adopted in 2004 and entered into force on 13.8.2004. Who was in the government at the time, why such a decision was made, you must ask, above all, those who then interpreted this law in Parliament and not me. That's the fact that's left. We've only dealt with certain matters. And that's one of the things that wasn't in the rescue program. About the editors. Directors don't replace the police, they can't replace it, and they won't replace it. We have already developed a partnership with the law enforcement service, and we have cooperated with them, and we will continue to do so. Indeed, the editors have been given additional powers and thus have helped to increase the security of our citizens associated with statistics. I've never just talked about the fact that there's been an increased investigation. Every time I perform with statistics, I also talk about increasing crime in Slovenia. That's very specific. You can also find this in all the tables and in all the reports of the Ministry of the Interior or the police. And it is very clear at what rate crime has been growing in Slovenia and with what fall or growth has been the number of crimes investigated. And in 2004, 2005, 2006 crime grew in Slovenia. It's grown from 86,000 to slightly more than 90,000 crimes. Last year, it fell from 90,000 to 80,000. However, the level of investigation has increased despite the increase in the number of crimes. And I have no doubt that the data published in Eurostat are different from those. They also take them from official data that can be obtained from countries. They can't just set a number. I have never and never hidden the fact that crime is growing in Slovenia. Last year we witnessed that a certain percentage of crime in Slovenia had fallen. About the electoral records. Obviously, I am also to blame if someone moves to an address abroad and comes to an address and does not want to accept it or has moved it, and for the costs incurred in this regard. I've made it very clear with the electoral directories how it is. There is no law in the law, and I cannot take this right away, and I doubt that anyone else in Parliament would hope to take it into his hands, that he will say that someone, because he has to enter it into the electoral directory on official duty, will not enter it, regardless of the fact that the data is not complete. The law does not state that persons for whom data are not complete should not be entered in the electoral directory. The law states that we owe all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who live outside the Republic of Slovenia to enter into the electoral directory. Of course, there are some indents that talk about the data that is supposed to be recorded. But if this information is not available, we cannot enter it, we cannot invent it and we cannot decide it ourselves, no administrative authority can decide what is appropriate to enter and what is not appropriate to enter it. With regard to the research that was discussed here, it was a survey of compensation claims, if I recall correctly. And it was also done by a university in Slovenia that was selected on a public invitation to tender. Of course, one university is not worth anything because, I don't know, maybe who doesn't like it or if there's not enough time at the university, or if it's wrong to win a public invitation. But the other one, of course, is fine. The study was commissioned in the summer of 2004 in a public tender. I, as the minister of duty, was not informed of this research. The competent authorities who conducted and worked on this study did not report anything. It was only after the new director of the Directorate was set up that we found out what they were doing with regard to certain matters they had previously covered up. Of course, they are those who are professional and who have not acted politically. Because those who are now set up are obviously acting politically according to your interpretation. And all the questionnaires that have been working on this should be verified by the contracting authority, as usual. It's a common practice. You know exactly what I'm talking about. You know exactly what I'm talking about. Especially those who finished FSPN and had Mr. Toš, Dr. Toš, as a professor who taught us how to do it. I had the opportunity to listen to him myself, even to take his exams, and I have not forgotten these things. The questionnaire that was used there, and which you all use now, was not validated, was, as they wrote, internationally verified, had some international references, and even translations of texts from English into Slovenian were completely wrong. The questionnaire was designed for Anglo-Saxon social arrangements, where they know within the system of supervisors, where someone who starts working in an area gets a new supervisor, as they say in English to this superweiser. We don't have this system in continental law, we don't have this system in place. And those words were translated as bosses, as guidance, as I don't know what. In different cases, they were translated completely differently. I have a questionnaire in English, in Slovenian here. There's no secret. And I told the company or university that did this so that they could leave it all in, but I will require a review of this questionnaire, a full analysis at an independent university outside the Republic of Slovenia and then publish on all the websites the results of this research offered by another company, some independent institution outside the Republic of Slovenia. And then miraculously, that questionnaire disappeared from this analysis. It's a miracle he's gone. Without that, we got it all at once, except of course the opposition Members, who now have this questionnaire and are operating only on this data. About the equipment that's being procured and the talk that she's inappropriate, that she's expensive, that we're going to go to Afghanistan with her, and I don't know where else. Vehicles purchased, ground vehicles used for specific purposes have been designed and bought for the purposes of specific police units, so that, together with transport vehicles that bring these units to the location of the event, they can properly bring them to this location under specified specific conditions. By the way, one of these vehicles cost significantly less because we had a successful public contract, as it would have been. For one of these Touareg vehicles, mentioned above, the price was EUR 38 000 and not just over 45, such as the usual price in stores for the most basic model. Otherwise, it would be good to listen, of course, when we talk about getting more vehicles with cameras that are white blue vehicles, with blue lights that control Slovenian highways and which have proven to be extremely successful in their work. With regard to private security, however, a few more sentences should be added, regardless of the fact that I have already said something. It is said that if there were two legal decisions to withdraw the licence. I have quoted very precisely in my presentation an article of the law which speaks of a cumulative violation of the law, that it is an area of two infringements, that it is a labour-related breach of the labour legal relationship and so on. It's about and, and. It's not or it's a comma. And those who are lawyers, and I think there are quite a few lawyers in the National Assembly, you know exactly what cumulative reading of the article means. In the case of private protection, it must also be made clear that the previous law, which, by the way, came into existence in 2003, was a good and decisive step towards starting to regulate the area of private protection, before which we had no law in this area, of course some things were foreseen. And according to the previous law, because this is no longer the case in this new law, and it is therefore necessary to take both laws and compare with what powers a person has had, it has been clearly stated that the companies against which the inspection of the offence is carried out do not have any reservations about the issue of consent, so the Ministry did not have a legal basis not to issue a licence if it was also at the time of the offence. And just a sentence about making the security situation worse on Slovenian roads because we extended the technical checks for one year. Statistical data, very simple. In view of the number of victims in traffic accidents who are seriously injured and may be injured and vehicles which are technically unfit or have technical deficiencies, it can be found that 0.4% of vehicles involved in such transport accidents are technically incorrigible in the number of dead. In case of severe injuries 0.3%, in case of minor injuries 0.1% [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the applicants, however, I invite Member Paul Gantar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I will begin with the talk on the technology of the approach, which mainly referred to the criticism of the opposition and of the interpelling proponents. I would also like to say something about the technology of approach, the technology with which you are substantively discussing and defaming with conflicting arguments by saying the opponent, if I may say so, first disqualify. And that's the way we heard it in here today most of the time. And that's the way you say it can't talk about the Roma who don't live near them, together with them or who wasn't the mayor. And it disqualifies anyone to talk about this problem. By the way, I can't be in this area either, because I have a lot of experience of those and others, but that's not the way, so it can't be discussed. A similar disqualification in the provinces, in the case of deleted and so on. This is an argument that actually shows that there are no arguments and that you actually need to find something third that you're trying to get out of the game with. That's not gonna work! This can't come out and, of course, it won't work out. Now, of course, to the content. What I did in all these two performances of the Minister, this afternoon and now, I did not specifically comment, what I am actually making clear at this level is a certain degree of banalisation of matters. It seems to me that some things are too simplistic, too quick to conclude and conclude and with these release a number of details. I like to believe that the Strojans asked him to move them. I wasn't there, I have to take his word for it, but I was watching TV, listening to the reports, listening to their statements, and I found something completely different that this request was quite different from what it seems from this simplified display. The "Lakmus test" for the truth of what the minister was saying is simply clear. What did you do when they wanted to go back on their own? Did you leave them or not? Each and every one of you should answer that question. It's a "Lakus test" for the truth he spoke or for its interpretation. A similar story in this unfortunate world for road safety and prevention. There is no doubt that an agreement was reached in the 2004 law to set up an agency and to move this Council to this agency. Whether it was good or not, I didn't follow it. That's how it was done. Thus, the Minister also retained this arrangement on the first amendment. However, in the last amendment, this agency, which has not yet been established, has let go and left this miserable world in the void. And he actually let him fall or vegetation where he's vegetating today. Around Global, here's the thing where we just didn't get the right answer. The fact is, Mr Minister, we did not have a good discussion about whether you issued this order, the decision to suspend the licence on the basis of the new law. If you betrayed him, you acted contrary to the Constitution because you retroactively applied the law. If you have issued on the basis of an old law, wrong again, because even if it could be in the opinion of experts, this law was no longer in force in the old form. At the same time, you have not applied measures to, say, what I know, a decision on the temporary withdrawal of a licence based on the law on inspection supervision and the law on administrative procedure. You didn't use this method. And you didn't actually give us an answer here. The fact is, in fact, it is quite clear that you acted inappropriately, too late and ineffectively here. I could still mention a number of things, but I won't, because I think some things are a matter of personal interpretation, either by the minister or by the MPs or by anyone. Everyone can have an opinion on these matters, and people can also, of course, create their own opinions. But the fact is, if we insist on this strict and formal matter, here, in fact, you did not give us an answer and here we kept you and, of course, we still have you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm asking, on behalf of the motioners, anyone else? My fellow school boy, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I will be able to repeat the fifth time myself, but look at the Minister, the electoral directory of citizens who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, has the following elements: serial number, comma, surname and name, comma, sex, comma, date of birth, comma, last permanent residence of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or one of his parents in the Republic of Slovenia, comma, permanent residence abroad and notes, pika. You who refer to how the provisions are defended. So if there's not one of these elements, there's no entry in the electoral directory, period. And you've made electoral directories, and no one's telling you anything that's just changed the address and so on. There are some 30,000 people who have been enrolled in these directories, some who have not been able to obtain electoral material, others who have received it and have not returned it, and the bad tens of thousands of these addresses have proved to be flawed or inaccurate in all respects. That's negligence. I didn't ask you if anyone paid past the budget and how much your engagements were, so much sang in connection with this famous family, but how much the involvement of the additional police officers in this area, how much additional engagements have become for, I'll tell you, this tracking down to these people across Slovenia and how far the difference in the value of land is. We didn't get that answer. It is quite clear that there can be no source beyond the budget, from which the police would be financed, to underestimate us so much. A few times you may ask whether you can tell what you have done against those people who are sympathizers or have member cards of ruling parties and are associated with these suspicions of customerism and corruption that you have not answered. You've taken one word that it's bad for the people you work with to be your company. I apologize if you think they're bad company. Usually a person chooses his own company and works in it as long as he thinks he's good. So there can be no major problems. I also did not draw data from Eurostat because I thought that someone was hiding them or that they were coming past you, but I wanted to warn my colleagues here that you are using statistics only then and those that are useful to you. And we don't get far with that. But I'm surprised that you're starting to worry about the problems you've had with this research and with the researchers. I have to say that I didn't know all these complications, but from what you told before, I'm surprised that you've been moaning in the end, because earlier it showed that there's a problem somewhere and you see it, it's one of the best possible situations for you, because the next moment it's all arranged and in the best order. I'm surprised it wasn't possible for one of these simple things. I don't believe it, and it's hard to get you to do it now, because there's no time to answer anything else, but I don't think you're going to get out of this conversation, and someone has also called it talking to the deaf, what they've learned. But they will learn a great deal about you and your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Can we close the discussion in the context of the pre-announced applications? Thank you. Does any of the Members present wish to apply the provision of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate on interpolation. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly that, following the debate on interpretation, the Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Matei, be dismissed. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrust to the Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Matei." In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Can we vote? I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Kolga Barovic on his own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u192	On behalf of the Group of Members. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll do it. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] , make sure the time stops running. If we're here for 16 hours, I have three minutes to say something. I'm going to oppose this motion. Why? I'll give you three arguments. A family with a name on the S, which I don't want to hear anymore, with a number of records of violations of the criminal and criminal code, is offered from this country almost for a villa that they don't like either. In Rippers, the x-family, which has no record of any criminal and criminal law, has no work, ends up in a container from the Social Work Centre. Point 1. Point 2. A police officer brings a proven suspect's father and son five years ago, convicted of murder, to a judicial branch of power. The judicial branch of power estimates that this father and son who murdered the third person are not indifferent and forgives them. And these two are gone. Was the police supposed to be guilty? Third time. When Slovenia was not a member of the EU, the so-called European democratic states of asylum, which came from Slovenia to European countries, returned. They don't have access. Today you are saying that Europe, the country of Slovenia, should read out discrimination. And this is supposed to be the police's fault? Shame on you all who know all this. Five years ago, you remember what happened. We've had our asylums returned to us, and today we're being told that we're being discriminated against. They didn't accept the Gypsies themselves, they didn't accept the Azilants, but today we're discriminatory. Shame on you! Let's not be more papal than the Pope. These are three essential reasons. Not to mention that this ministry, no matter what, has done a great deal for the Schengen area. We said "schengen" before. Now we're reading the ones we wanted, and you wanted the Schengen, and we're reading that the Schengen is bringing crime into this country. Yeah, what do we want? If you want A, it's not A good, you want B. If you get B, you want A. Stop it, please! These are the reasons why I object to interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-05-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u193	Thank you for the explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Can we get to the vote? My friend Barovich! We're voting! I'm calling off the vote because I don't have a voting device. Ladies and gentlemen, I have different equipment than you have. Thank you so much for understanding. We're voting again. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that Mr Dragutin Matee's non-trust was not voted on by the Minister of the Interior. I thank everyone, especially the Minister, for a long and successful day. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
