ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government! Please take your seats. I begin with the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Anton Anderlich. We are moving on to the 17th item of our agenda, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats! Thank you. So we move on to 17. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the establishment of landscaping within the framework of a regular procedure. We have 7 hours and 10 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, the Group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. For the introduction, I give the representative of the Government the floor to further explain the bill. With us is Minister Ivan Žagar, Minister without a Charter in charge of local self-government and regional policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the general debate, there is a second part of the package of laws that are actually the basis for establishing the provinces. So, you have before you the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, the Proposal for a Law on Election Units for Elections in the First Regional Council and the Proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Orders to the Competence of the Provinces. With this second part of the package of laws, in fact, in the parliamentary procedure, the entire pact of legislation allowing you to establish provinces that allows you to follow that decision when you decided to decentralise Slovenia by confirming the change in the constitution which actually made this process possible has made this process possible. If we talk about decentralisation of Slovenia, about more coherent regional development, about the necessity of polycentric development of Slovenia. We can see that we all agree on this, both as an expert part of the public and as a political public, and, last but not least, your decision two years ago has also been about this. And this decision is still possible to support, of course, with some statistical indicators, we have given you some information on the table. I also personally estimate that it is probably the most interesting or most eloquent indicator of domestic gross product per capita. If we find that in Slovenia we have extremely successful growth on this segment, and if we look at this successful growth across regions - at this point I am talking about statistical development regions - then we can figure out two from this. Firstly, the distribution of gross product is extremely uneven across the entire territory of Slovenia. In fact, the differences are 1 to 2 of that central work, the most developed work, up to, say, 1 to 5, those that are the closest to the central work, which is additionally worrying, but the growth of the gross product, if we look at it in the last 10 years after the available data, speaks of gross product growth in the central region being faster than in the rest of the statistical development regions. Regardless of whether we look at the many measures that have been taken through legislation, and also through the adoption of legislation, there has always been a particular emphasis on regional moments, particularly emphasis being placed on coherent regional development, but regardless of this, also according to current data, the positive growth of gross product in the central Slovenian region, taking into account the average in other regions, except in part still in Podravje, and this gross product growth is even lower. Of course, this growth in gross product is then reflected in a number of developmental areas, reflected in the number of jobs, reflected in the quality of jobs, reflected in the final stage of income in individual regions. In short, it speaks of developmental and living conditions being unevenly distributed at the starting point, including through these indicators. If we also follow a single Charter on Local Self-Government, i.e. the European Charter on Local Self-Government, then one of the basic principles is equality before the law, solidarity - in short, ensuring comparable living conditions in all regions of Slovenia. And it is possible to do so or to take the necessary step forward, exclusively by establishing the landscapes. In the second part, I would like to touch on a little bit of legislation, because this is also to a large extent a topic that is currently on the table. The very drafting of legislation and the whole process of adopting this legislation went through an extremely wide range of coordination: both in the professional work and in the interdepartmental work, as well as a number of coordination within the political parties here in the National Assembly. I have spent several hours in various parliamentary groups, where we have done a number of harmonisations in the drafting phase, and I hope to say that we have also upgraded the legislation accordingly. If we look at the first package of legislation, before it came to the government, we have agreed to the extent that there was a uniform opinion or almost a uniform opinion that the legislation was suitable for further consideration. In the coming stages, this legislation has been further upgraded. I would point out that even in the reception phase of the National Assembly, then in the second reading, the agreement was to stop the adoption of amendments. Therefore, some of the issues related to the financing of the provinces remained open and it is still possible to upgrade these solutions from the point of view of the original revenues. Some solutions have also been drawn up by the Government or the relevant services, but dialogue is needed, this needs to be discussed and the best, optimal solutions must be sought within the framework option. But once again, of course, legislation is largely ready, but some issues are still open and can still be harmonised in the first package of three laws. As regards the second package of three laws, given that it is still in the general debate, it can still be fully corrected and upgraded, of course also in this case within the framework and in this sense that this upgrade represents an additional value for the preparation of this legislation. Well, and now I would touch on the preparation of this law, namely the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. You adopt this law in the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority and it actually means the widest political consensus. This law is prepared on the one hand on the basis of professional starting points; on the other hand, it is also the result of agreements, including political agreements, since, last but not least, it is the political decision of this National Assembly. The law is based on historical attributes, cultural attributes, development attributes, also based on geographical attributes, as well as transport attributes. Finally, the law is based on the division of Slovenia, as is already being used in this area - we are already using 12 statistical development regions, with two sub-regions, both in terms of coherent regional development, and we are using comparable division in a number of other areas of individual sector ministries. As regards the harmonisation of this law, a basic division of Slovenia has been established at the beginning. And the only possible division, even with regard to the entire debate that took place in this National Assembly at the time when we, for example, adopted the Harmonised Regional Development Act, was then perfectly logical that we had put forward a proposal for 14 provinces based on 12 developmental and 2 sub-regions. This proposal has gone into broad coordination in the local community. Last but not least, the amendment of the Constitution or constitution dictates the highlighted element of local communities. And after that first debate, i.e. after a 60-day broad debate, we prepared, on the basis of proposals received, opinions, views at government level, a starting proposal for intervention in the National Assembly. Therefore, the first correction of the original proposal was made, of course, on the basis of these opinions. During the procedure in the National Assembly, a second public debate was held on this law. Already in the second part, the congregations have resubmitted their opinions on this proposal, and I must say that even through this debate, and through all the activities that have been carried out in the last week, for example, we can find that, even in terms of the number of landscapes, there has not actually been, despite the fact that this option has been allowed, no proposals have been made to reduce the number of landscapes. I must say that this law has been presented in the State Council, where it has received very broad support. It was last presented to all mayors as representatives of municipalities, i.e. representatives of local interests. And I am sure that the mayors and the municipal councils are passing on the opinions of their people, and this meeting has expressed great support for this law. Of course, I can also agree that some adjustments must also be made in this case, but through the procedure in the National Assembly. This can only be done through dialogue, through discussion and in further steps. This law is also fully open in this respect, in that I am convinced that the debate that has been held so far has led to some very clear proposals and that some open issues remain and these issues need to be taken into account. I am sure that these corrections can also be made in this National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, I would like to appeal to you in the final phase, I call on you, and, lastly, I also request that this debate be held, that a final resolution of this legislation be sought through dialogue and that the Slovenians and Slovenians living after [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] all the territory of Slovenia, that is to say, to enable Koroše, including Gorenjek, including all those living outside the most developed parts of Slovenia, comparable living conditions, i.e. to confirm the provincial legislation. [[..]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u4	Your Honors are here! The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, named Lipe, stems from our tendency to pursue the goal of having laws in our country that are substantive - for the first time; secondly, the laws of which users will have something and in our case they are the inhabitants of each province. In short, we tend to the content. It appears basically and in my opinion the only question is whether the laws that are at today's session - or, rather, whether it is a law that is currently under consideration, a substantive law or just and only a law with a beautiful title. The fact is, none of us present in this Chamber and none of those who have cooperated in any way in the Lands Act oppose the provinces. But the fact is that the content of the law that is before us today does not follow what is expected of the province. Allow me to point out some of the major concerns of the group that I am representing at this time. In front of me, the minister said, "decentralisation." The Prime Minister of the Government said a few days ago that anyone who hopes to oppose legislation is for centralisation within our country. Put your hands on your heart. It's not like that. If we look at the existing structure within our country, we see that we have some 1,000 fourth-quarter saints in the Republic of Slovenia, that we have some 1,000 local saints in the Republic of Slovenia, that we have some 1,000 municipal councillors within the Republic of Slovenia, that we have state councillors, European Members, Members of State, and if we add up this number of people, we see that we are already statistically looking at almost every family representative in one body, and for each body it has been said that it means decentralisation within our country - but it is not. I personally don't believe in the nice words that the Minister has said before me, if the distribution based on GDP or any other indicator in our country will be more effective if we accept his idea of these provinces. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course not. The distribution of GDP - The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should make greater efforts both in the field of economy and in the area of comfortable living. However, I would like to point out a matter or dimension that has so far not been taken into account by the Minister in a few years of discussion on the provinces, but unfortunately also opposed some or most political parties. In the Group of Members, the self-named Lipa, we believe that it is necessary to learn something from history, possibly positive or possibly negative things. Since 1994, since we have been legalized or since we had our first elections to local communities in our country, we have seen that we had some ten local communities or communities. The Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Local Elections, the Law on the Financing of Local Communities, all these laws have changed several times over this period. I'm probably not going to say very far if I'm going to say that at least every one of these 10 times. Always under the pretense, but now we've come to know something new. Of the few 10 congregations in 1994, we reached 210 this year. There has always been a speech that with the re-mining of our country we will come to the so-called decentralisation. So we're here? Obviously not if the minister himself said in the introduction that the condition for decentralisation was the establishment of his 14 provinces. I do not think that it was so many years ago when, in the context of the constitutional changes that the highest legal act speaks of the provinces, Members of the Group of Members, known as Lipa, proposed that the number of provinces be registered in the highest legal act, i.e. in the Constitution. Why? Because we fear that the same story that happened with the municipalities within our country will happen in the area of the provinces. In other words, political moments, regrettably, the local elections, the state-run elections, have brought behind them a number of things other than just a different session in the House of Representatives. These political moments or electoral moments have always led to the transformation of local governments or municipalities in our country. So when a party received a sufficient number of mandates in a local community, this party filtered into various civil initiatives and from this came those corners of the municipality where each pursues the goals of its own February - political party. And that this would not be the same with the provinces, so that, when we have the provinces, we would have a long life, so that it would not be every time the power of the left, the right, the middle, would change the image of the future provinces, we wanted, unfortunately you did not support us, to write down the number in that legal act, that is, the constitution that is most difficult to change within our country. Of course, according to our assessment, this fundamental original sin was committed at that time. Then how did the matter go on? Political representatives and also the majority of mayors within our country are politicians, members of different political parties and similar things. Whoever's gonna close their eyes before that, I'm guessing, shuts their eyes to the truth. Then how did the story go on? Political bargaining took place mainly among government representatives, how much of the province is meaningful and how much it is not. Even before the question of financing, on tasks, on own tasks, on own funding, on transfer of funding, on own funding and on basic issues remained empty until today, according to our assessment. And what would happen if the National Assembly adopted a package of provincial legislation, as before us today? In my opinion, however, I do not want you to say that this is a critical assessment, or, according to the assessment of the Group of Members, named or named Lipa, we will come into this situation exclusively in the area of the establishment of some administrative units. And when we talk about the division of Slovenia already based on the existing system, ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia we already have a 32-fold division of our country. On the basis of the jurisdiction of the courts, on the basis of the powers of the military, the police, the firefighters, the Red Cross; in short, there is no limit which would be uniform. From this address, we have pursued three key objectives in the parliamentary group: the long-termity of the provinces, the content of the provinces, that the inhabitants of this province will also have something from this province. Not to have of these 14 provinces, which, according to our assessment of exclusively political landscapes, have only some new provincial councillors, i.e. members of individual political parties, so that they will not have just and only the heads of these provinces, but whatever they will be called. So, either the mayor or whatever it is defined in the law. In short, we are looking for as few landscapes as possible within our country. Why? The more Slovenia is fragmented, the weaker the negotiating position will have the above-mentioned provinces towards the most important interlocutor, namely the ministries and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Even today, allow me to give a comparison again with the local community, we have as much as 80% of the mayors who do not come to the ministers during the current period or, God forbid, not even to the President of the Government. Because they are always taken: you and you are a representative of a small congregation, and we simply do not have time for you. And this is a reality within our so-called centralisation. If we have a large number of provinces, we will, unfortunately, also have a very poor interlocutor in the context of decentralisation or the development of local self-government at the second level. With a smaller number of provinces, ladies and gentlemen, we would automatically achieve more favourable funding for these provinces, more favourable implementation of the content of the province's tasks, and, in our opinion, we would create an entity intended solely to meet the needs of the inhabitants and the inhabitants of those provinces. With this fragmentation, as proposed by the Government, with these tasks, as proposed by the Government, with the means of funding, as proposed by the Government, we will achieve only illusions in the air. Illusion, czech, but in Slovenia we have established landscapes and since then we will all be happy and satisfied. But this illusion will disintegrate at a time when people will want to carry out the content of their lives under the jurisdiction of that province. From this address and all those addresses that we have already identified through press conferences, press releases, not least through talks with Minister Žagar under the said legislation, we would find it most appropriate in the given situation if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took the step that we ask it to take, at least in the context of the Group of Non-Aligned Members known as Lipa, to take a step back in the basic plan, to avoid the number 14 for the aforementioned provinces. Let us take a look at the matter that is closest to the people or residents and residents of the region mentioned. Today we know there are three threats between us. The first threat that some of you take very seriously, the second or not, is a threat to the Prime Minister of the Government, because he who opposes these administrative provinces will be referred to as a man for centralisation. That's a fact, and that's what the Prime Minister threatened us with. Secondly, there is either a so-called forecast above us or an anticipated referendum in the air. According to our assessment, it would have made sense before it became applicable, and this should have been done already a year ago, the users of the provinces, i.e. citizens and citizens, should have asked optionally how many provinces they wanted. Let there not be a decision on the number 14 decisions taken by the President of the Government, together with three other ministers, because they have assessed that 14 provinces are the unit that satisfies their regional coverage of the political party. We can't let that happen. We must not allow this to become, in addition to administrative units, a province reflecting or embodying the power of an individual party within a particular area of our country. And the idea, as illustrated by the Lip Group, is that first of all we ask citizens and citizens how many provinces are needed in Slovenia, whether it is 6, or whether it is 8, or whether it is 10, we also allow the possibility of 14 telling people what the basic tasks are, but not least given that the Government and the entire Slovenian policy have not yet been prepared or able to do what the contents of the provinces will be. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not make us late for more than 60 days. But with this step, we would make the content. It is not enough that we are invited to do, more or less, to cover up or hide members of individual parties in another function, perhaps the mayor, the representative of a civil initiative or anything to accept empty provinces. This would be irresponsible for our citizens and our citizens. We are obliged to provide the landscapes, but the landscapes with content and is definitely dependent on the content, or better said, the content depends on the number of landscapes. For if a smaller number of provinces, ladies and gentlemen, of course the number of tasks and sources of funding will be different, and in particular the amount of money will be different in that particular province. From this title, we also propose to the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the self-appointed Lipa, to postpone the decision on the legislation in question tomorrow. We should postpone for a period of time to one of the next meetings, while, for the first time, we should get the position of those whom we represent today and here. However, we must be aware that, unfortunately, too many times, we represent exclusively each of our political leaders. And that's wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u6	Nice greetings to all present. The bill divides the territory of the country into areas of the provinces as self-government local communities and establishes 14 provinces. It also sets out their names, their seats and the number of first provincial councils. Of course, we also have our ideas, our expectations, and our desires for the countryside. First of all, we expect that the province will be economically strong and strong enough to move beyond the development gap that we have in our area. Of course, we are afraid that this will not happen unless we have yet reached other parts of the country when we have talked about the whole country. We also expect the province to provide an adequate life for its inhabitants. So, economics. Mr Minister spoke before me about sub-regions, then he will not blasphemously say that we had hoped for some kind of sub-region within the province where we belong; so, in the bilingual area, we would have a sub-region. Looks like we're a long way from here. Let me point out that the names of the provinces which include municipalities with national mixed areas should also have a name in Italian and Hungarian, in addition to Slovenian. In the provincial council in these provinces, the Italian and Hungarian national communities should have as many members of the provincial councils as possible, representatives of the Italian or Hungarian national communities, to be represented as evenly as possible. This is also reflected in the calls made by the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality and the municipalities of Koper, Piran and Hrpelje-Kozin to make the three saints of the Italian National Community in the province's so-called Istrian-Kraška province. However, we would like to see the election of members of the provincial councils, representatives of the Italian or Hungarian national communities set up not only one constituency, which would cover the entire province, but several constituencies, which would ensure the fullest possible level of representation. This is also evident from the call from the congregation of Hodhos. The committee for the preparation of the statutes of the provinces, which includes municipalities with national mixed areas, shall be appointed by one representative of the Italian or Hungarian national community on the proposal of the self-governance national community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by fellow Member Franz Pukšič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, government representatives. Good-bye! Members and Members of this National Assembly are certainly in this mandate before the most important decision of the Assembly for Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In a country that is a young democracy, there were some important decisions. Of course, it was the most important, for which it was also established and carried out then the task of Demos, that is to say, self-sustainment. Another such important decision of the first term of office of members of the National Assembly from 1992 to 1996 was when they made local self-government from municipal municipalities. It is this local government that has led in these 12 years to the municipalities that Slovenia has started to develop better. Of course on a basic, elementary level. Colleagues and colleagues - guides, roads, elementary schools, gyms, cultural homes, firehouses, etc. Now we need to take a step forward. A step towards the development of wider infrastructure, a step towards the development of sewerage, a step towards the development of river basins, a step towards the development of regionalisation and, most importantly, a step towards the development of jobs. A step towards better quality of life, a step on higher wages so that we will not only have European prices, that we will have European wages, or, in other words, that we will have a gross domestic product per capita roughly equally distributed across the country. It's not like that right now. Now the difference is 1:2, which is essentially catastrophic. Well, during the 2000-2004 term, the National Assembly had the power to draw up a referendum and all that was necessary with regard to the decision-making of citizens and citizens to join the European Union and NATO. The period 2000-2004 did not end with Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO, but at local level, at national level, at regional level, we can say that the mandate of that Government ended with an attempt to amend the Constitution in relation to the provinces. Thus, Members and Members of the mandate period 200-2004 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were informed of the activities related to the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia and the regionalisation of administrative units with proposals for decisions by the Government. This material was foreseen from the end of 2004 or the end of that mandate from 8 to 14 provinces. And the explanation in 14 provinces said that this was one of the political realities, one of the political possibilities. As in life, everything is not ideal, nor can we generally drive an ideality policy, but we can drive a policy of opportunity. Well, we have already done a lot of work for citizens and citizens since many of the professional foundations that this Government has used to establish the provinces have been created on this topic. But until today we actually had information, we had consultations, we had, in short, everything except one little thing we didn't have - we didn't have legislation. Today we have Members and Members on the benches full legislation. The opposition demanded that the first package of three laws that were under consideration, the other three were already in Lotus Notes Network to decide all the laws, i.e. all six at the same time. Since the coalition knows, and will have to know, any coalition that this is not a coalition project, but that it is a draft of Members and Members of a term of office of a National Assembly, the opposition's recommendations have also been taken into account. And after considering the legislation, we did not vote on the amendments, because we left all the areas open in the first three laws, precisely the areas in which the opposition had comments. We have decided to follow the instructions, recommendations, I will say, the opposition and the government bring the remaining three laws to the National Assembly. It's done now. And now that we have these three laws, the logical way forward is to adopt these three laws as a suitable basis for further consideration tomorrow. And then at the next extraordinary or regular February session, we have a package of all six laws, where we will decide on various amendments and amendments. Only then, after the amendments adopted, will a decision be taken on the laws, individually, and on the law that we now have on the agenda, on the establishment of the provinces for which two-thirds of the Members and Members present are required, may Members and Members be allowed to decide on the amendments adopted, in short, with the amendments they will make and discuss during this period. Dear Members and Members! I cannot or would not understand that in this National Assembly we would not adopt this law or these packages of law and legislate provincial legislation in view of such a high level of support throughout the country. We have support from all municipalities, support from both municipalities, both in SOS and in ZOS, then support from the State Council and support from opinions addressed to 210 municipalities, municipal councils, and from 182 municipal councils recommendations or opinions. Only 28 congregational councils did not communicate their position, whether they agreed or disagreed with the provinces. What does the establishment of the provinces mean, in fact, and what does it mean to transfer from national level, of course in a specific law, to transfer from national to regional level, within the framework of €1.2 billion? This is in fact such a large number that it is difficult to imagine - or 1,200 million euros. If I can just illustrate it with two figures. The legislation shows that this transfer will also mean the transfer of approximately 15,000 employees in both education and inspection services, archives and about 400 employees in ministries. This also means that some who are driving from the east today, west to Ljubljana, will migrate every day to Ljubljana, working somewhere closer to their living environment. 15,000 employees, if you recalculate what's in personal income, I'll take a big number, because 3,000 gross wages are probably not there, or if, if I take optimistic, that would be about half of the money for these 15,000 overemployed people who are now at national level, then they would be at regional level. With this we have not increased a single euro; in fact, we have reduced the cost of people in this employment network. The other 600 million euros, colleagues and colleagues, means nothing more and nothing less than two cases, say 6,000 apartments in one year after a hundred square meters of 1,000 euros, or five roads, from Kopra to Lendava, five times in which one kilometer would cost 300,000 euros. So, five of those connections. In short, I would like to illustrate that the Government has indeed decided to move such governance, tasks and resources to a lower level, and this is the most important moment of this development for this country. Let me back that up with some more information. See, gross domestic product per capita growth. When we hear this formulation, the gross product per capita, we wonder what that actually means. Just two illustrative examples. Gross per capita product means jobs and means the amount of wages, these are the two elements that mean the gross product in this product. Where there is a low gross product, it means that we have few jobs, and the ones we have have have low wages. Members and Members of this National Assembly, I believe that we want to change this - that, on average, in the country, we have roughly the same jobs per capita and that these salaries are paid approximately the same. At the beginning of my term in 1996, when I came to this Parliament when I was elected by the voters and voters, I said the following that I came to help create approximately equal conditions for citizens and citizens in the Slovenian Gorica and Haloza. We create roughly equal conditions after 12 years slowly, but only at the elementary level that I was talking about at the beginning. It is now high time, and it is up to you, Members of Parliament and Members, whether we will do this homework that we have received in this mandate. Other opportunities, some of us, I believe, won't have any more, there won't be a correctional exam here. Of course, in 10 years' time, someone will stand for this pay phone and hold close to the same papers where he will talk about gross domestic product and find out, as I now see, that in 1995 there were 6,000 euros in Pomurje and something that in 2005 there were 9,400 euros, that is, that gross product rose by 53%. If I compare this with the Central Slovenian region - of course, comparisons are made on the basis of statistical regions because such statistical distribution in 12 statistical regions was accepted by the previous Government - if I compare it with the Central Slovenian region, in 1995 the amount of EUR 10,800 or the ratio of 6 to 10. Today, in 2005, EUR 20,300 per capita, compared to the Pomeranian region 9,000, is a ratio of 9 to 20. What does that tell us? This tells us that the differences between reducing backlogs have actually increased. Thus, despite the adoption of some laws on coherent regional development in the National Assembly, these differences have increased. The rate of increase was higher than that of coordination. Or if I were to say a comparison, let's say how many years would it take in a particular region if we wanted to approach or catch up to the Ljubljana region, or, in other words, that we would have 20,000 euros gross per capita. However, colleagues and colleagues, 20,000 Euros in the Medieval region or 9,000 Euros in the Pomur region do not mean that in the Pomur region the litre of milk is half the price that the litre of gasoline is half the price, a pound of bread is half the price - that is not the case. Prices are the same, but the quality of life of these people in these areas is lower. And if the Premur region wants to get closer to the Central Slovenian region by keeping the Central Slovenian at this level, it would take 34 years, colleagues and colleagues. Many of us who are here today are likely to be of such age that we wait for it will not be expected. Podravska would need 16 and so on. Well, I'll only serve you with one more piece of information. Since I have spoken all the time and I appeal to you to support this legislation, I have talked about two elements, I have talked about jobs and I have talked about the quality of personal income, the wages of these jobs. How do the number of jobs change? You know, Koroška has fewer jobs today than she had before 2000. Pomurska has fewer than she had in 2000. Or does the Central Slovenian region have them, you know, for how many more than it had in 2000? For even Koroška, for half of the pomur region, more jobs! What is the quality of jobs in the central Slovenian region? The gross product is twice as high per capita as in Koroška or Pomure. Colleagues and colleagues, these are the reasons for us to support the start of real regional harmonious development. Ambassadors and Members, believe me, I also tell you that some of you are not in an easy position. I have found myself once before that the will of the political centre was, for example, different from mine, but, if it is such an important project, supported by everyone in this country, by all associations, that is, everyone - of course, "there is not yet a God" to be understood, to be called, but by the vast majority, the plebiscite majority, 86%. Then I just wonder if I'm more right as an individual, more information than the plebiscite majority of this country. I believe the plebiscite majority of this country and colleagues, whether we were right or right, or whether the plebiscite majority of this country is right, will tell us in the autumn of the parliamentary elections. That's not what this is about. It is about whether in this House we are Members and Members ready to take a real step forward for development. This is crucial, it is the only task by which this mandate will be known, for citizens and citizens, we have done something for Slovenia or not; we have earned a salary or not. Therefore, please support this proposal, all options around the time of the elections, about how we will elect a mandate holder or the presidents of the region, etc., all is open, but the condition is that all six laws, as requested, are discussed together, either at an extraordinary or February meeting, and the condition is that these three laws receive support, in particular the Law establishing the Regions that needs 2/3 of the Members present, and here will show our true face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure make it impossible to replicate during the presentation of the views of the Group of Members, so I will identify or pay particular attention to the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Today we are starting a debate on another package of provincial legislation. The demand for content and some confusion led us to demand a general discussion, which the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly enable us to do. During the proposed legislation, particularly due to the need for a high quorum for its adoption, the law on the establishment of landscapes is particularly demanding, although some others may be more substantively difficult. The Constitution sets out a quorum for the adoption of this law with a view to achieving a high consensus among political parties, professions, civil society and, last but not least, representatives of local communities on what areas we need to really accelerate uneven regional development in the country, thus preventing uneven development in the country and achieving more coherent regional development. This has obviously not been achieved so far, since we hear about the various meetings on the ground every day, informing us of their dissatisfaction with their inclusion in a particular province, although the Minister has repeatedly stated in this house, I quote, "that it is the intention of the Government to prepare the best possible quality legislation because we are talking about a project that significantly interferes with the management system of Slovenia in the future and which is not of tomorrow, but is of long-term importance." The proposal for a law establishing the provinces is therefore an independent law, which is also an integrated protector in a system of provincial legislation that enables the opposition to participate constructively. The majority of coalitions do not have a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, and all future government coalitions will be difficult to form a majority that could change the landscape map. This ensures relative stability for the provinces, while at the same time this law also protects against the introduction of provinces that would be meaningfully conceived only within the coalition. I am sure that the coalition would have adopted the rest of the surface laws if it had not been for this law, which requires the participation of the opposition as well. Relatively certain about people's wishes can only be spoken of in the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, where they received a high certificate of wishes at the referendum, when the inhabitants decided on the coastal region and not on the interior region, although they did not decide, even in this case, on the organisation of the landscapes in general. All the others, who are so keen to refer to what people really want, are saying a lot of things, and it is a real surprise that it is the parties who in the previous mandate who have prevented the change of the Constitution, which would allow the adoption of provincial legislation, that today talk about the non-necessary need to determine the human will, even though in the previous term they have sworn several times to it, even on less important issues. The law establishing the provinces is a fundamental law, although certainly not the most important in the package of provincial legislation. If a relatively high political consensus has been reached for 14 provinces just before the time, despite certain concerns of the profession, we are still far from satisfactory agreement on their areas after all the coordination and public hearings, which is the basic reason that we still consider this law to be inappropriate in our parliamentary group. At the time of consideration of the first package of legislation in July last year, we have made it clear that the number of provinces is not the most important for the Group of Social Democrats, but the answer to the question, of course, is how closely linked to the question of what the contents of these provinces will be. However, when establishing the provinces, we must have a clear, functional, financial material, territorial, organisational, including personnel, and a legal picture of the province. A trip to the unknown could be too risky for all of us. Most of the bad solutions in the law, in our opinion, relate mainly to the area of central Slovenia, where there are many legitimate concerns about the inclusion of individual municipalities in certain provinces. If the province is to be an area where residents and residents can address important issues of life, or as stated in Article 2 of the Act, that the area of the province is a geographical unit linked to settlement infrastructure, natural systems and the interests of the population to resolve matters of wider local and regional importance, the proposed areas are indeed inconsistent. For example, more than 250,000 jobs have been occupied in the Central Slovenian province, of which just over 205,000 have been occupied by residents with permanent residence in the province, which means that we have a day-to-day migration into this province of almost 45,000 people. This is in the event that we do not count day-to-day migration, which is linked to education, which is also not negligible. The results could be much worse if the present Ljubljana Municipality became a self-employed province, as only 110,000 people in Ljubljana and daily migration have jobs in excess of 80,000 people working in the city, and a few more 10,000 people who are educated in the city will join them. From municipalities which should consist of a central Slovene province, according to logical data, more than 30% of the employees in Ljubljana are employed from Kamnik, Logatca, Lukovice, Moravč, Komende, Šmartna pri Litija, over 40% from the municipalities of Horjul, Domžale, Mengeš, Dobrepolje, Ivančna gorica, Litija and Vrhnika, over 50% of the working population in the municipalities of Borovnica, Medvode, Grosuplje, Vodice, Trzin and Velika Lašče, and up to 70% of the total working population in the municipalities of Polhov Gradec, Brezovica, Dol pri Ljubljani, Ig and Škofljica. These data speak of the region's organic linkage, as virtually most of the population of this region spends an active part of their lives in Ljubljana, which should also affect their inclusion in a particular province, and this is not the case in the Government's proposal, in the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. Moreover, even some municipalities, which are even based on a flat floor connected to Ljubljana, are excluded from this province. A similar problem, as it occurs in the vicinity of Ljubljana, also occurs in Kamnik-Zavski krajina. Even in this province, we are reminded of the illogical distribution and connection of the area of Zasavje with the area of stone, which is to be historically and functionally not particularly connected. So that we too are at odds with the origins of this province, as defined by the law in Article 2. There is also no problem with distribution in the Notran region. Yesterday, through the media, we heard statements by some mayors from around Ljubljana about their wishes to be classified in other provinces of the proposed ones. Therefore, it is a purely translation of all those who speak of almost unanimous support for the proposed provinces by the mayors and municipal councils. The second controversial issue in the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes is the separation of the seats of the provincial administration and the provincial councils. Although the desire of lawmakers to obtain as many votes as possible in support of the law in the National Assembly is understandable, the profession points to the inadequacy of such an artificial solution. More than dividing the headquarters of the administration and the council of the province, it would suggest thinking about the so-called sub-regions in the surrounding areas, which have common historical or developmental characteristics and in which certain functions of the province would be exercised. We have always supported the regionalisation of Slovenia, which would contribute to a more equitable regional development of the country and bring the decision-making process closer to people's development issues. We have been working on the Slovenian regionalisation project in the previous term, when a number of professional studies and the basis for the preparation of provincial legislation were prepared under the leadership of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Bohinca. However, some articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was prevented by the opposition at the time - led by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Coalition Slovenian People's Party, which today are the main advocates of the proposed legislation and are prepared to adopt also irregular legislation that leaves a number of open questions open. In deciding to amend the Constitution, namely, three articles - 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, this does not mean that any provincial legislation is adopted. Also the kind that the profession finds out is bad. The amendment of these three articles of the Constitution does not, therefore, force us to implement poor provincial legislation in practice. And if we have given support to constitutional changes to Members and Members of the Social Democrats, it does not mean that we have or have been given a mandate to support or support provincial legislation that raises more questions than it solves them. In this mandate, the Group of Social Democrats supported the amendment of the Constitution and thus made it possible to draw up working drafts of the necessary provincial legislation, which, according to our assessment, does not yet allow the establishment and functioning of quality developmental landscapes. We have also participated in various coordinations, in the hope that the concept of individual draft laws can also be changed, but this has unfortunately not been possible to a satisfactory extent to provide at least minimum guarantees that legislation will also work in practice to the benefit and not to the detriment of the development objectives of each province. In our view and in our view, the proposals for laws, including the law on the establishment of landscapes, have too many shortcomings that cannot be rectified. The business possibilities of adopting legislation do not allow us to change the concept with the amendments, I stress the concept of prepared legislation, as some articles are already closed. Therefore, it is clear that legislation can still be amended accordingly until the final adoption, without a specially concluded protocol between parliamentary parties to ensure a two-thirds majority, which would clearly define both procedural and substantive issues that need to be addressed in a package of provincial legislation. Social Democrats cannot agree on the proposal of the President of the Government to adopt poorly prepared legislation and to correct it later, as we have done in the legislation by which we established the municipalities. From experience, when we constantly corrected the Law on Local Self-Government due to shortcomings and also due to subsequent errors identified by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional, we should learn something, not repeat mistakes, even in the case of provincial legislation. The claim, "better than nothing", is not acceptable for the Group of Social Democrats, because we are obliged to adopt good legislation in this assembly, not the one which is known in advance that it will need to be rectified in a short time. Nor in the Group of Members do we accept the claim that if we do not now adopt provincial legislation, it will be long gone and that those who do not support the proposed legislation are against Slovenia's balanced regional development. If the parties to the government coalition have now really recognized the need to establish the provinces, there is no reason why their establishment would not be supported in the second term, even if they were in opposition. This would be so much more likely if the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes and Other Laws were more adapted to a number of professional comments and even more taken into account people's wishes, which at that time could also actually be identified by appropriate referendum questions or by extensive public research. That the matter is even more absurd, today, when we visit the government in the regions, we hear how the individual regions have progressed tremendously because of the support of this government, and immediately in the second sentence, these same officials claim that development differences are increasing. We have also listened to a number of observations in this congregation about how the Ljubljana Congregation has been in a state of development in recent years, and, on the other hand, the same people have shown us information that has increased in recent years the developmental differences between this slump in the notes, Ljubljana and other provinces. Let him who understands the sea. But with such arguments, every day we are served by representatives of the same government, which also proposes this Law establishing the provinces, and the great question is whether, according to such arguments, it is possible to believe that the legislative proposals are satisfactory for adoption in the National Assembly. Because of all that has been said in the Social Democrats Group, we will not support the proposed Law on the Establishment of Provinces, because we believe that further patient coordination of this law, as well as the entire package of provincial legislation, is necessary in order to achieve what we all want, and this is a development-oriented landscape that will contribute to more equitable regional development and not create new development problems. In the Group of Social Democrats we accept the need for solidarity to less developed areas. Funds for the faster development of less developed regions should be provided outside the appropriate spending, both in the allocation of development funds and in the use of European Union funds or in the direct investment of the country in such areas. Therefore, comprehensive and simultaneous arrangements are needed for the financing of local self-government, both for the municipalities and for the provinces, which will address the discrepancies found with the Constitution. Such arrangements will also make it easier to reach agreement on what areas we really need and, with the agreement reached, also legalize them. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we also support the idea of an advisory referendum, which would allow for one of the most demanding projects in the country to be expressed by voters and voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you, Vice President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know if I would start with some dramatic tone, which was understood from the words of the predecessors, how we were just a moment ago in the history of this Slovenian country, such as independence, the adoption of the constitution and so on. So, in the Liberal Democracy, we do not join in comparing this with really crucial events, but it is the process of creating this country, which is normal, which requires coordination and must also bring about harmonisation, otherwise it will be the result of kilowatts. It is true, however, that before us today is a key law in a package of provincial laws, which by a two-thirds majority actually allows all other laws to come into force by probably voting. This is not what we want in the Liberal Democracy. We therefore want to simplify our efforts in this key law to see if the content of the other laws is such that it meets this key objective, and we are doing so today with all our responsibility. At the beginning of the presentation of this law - Mr Pukšič later joined him, but I do not comment, but I am just looking for a basis for my thinking - he described, on the table we got a set of data, on the state of development in individual regions, and this is illustrated by a set of data that only confirms the already known: everyone in the National Assembly is aware that the level of development in particular areas in Slovenia is really great that such relations need to be improved. But these are the facts. Facts that say something must be done so that legislation must be adopted, but not at any cost. This does not mean that this rate of development or improvement of this data is not equivalent to that of today’s law, which simply means that 14 provinces should be attached to it. And that's the basis for our definition, which I'm going to quote later. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, let me be clear, we will defend regionalisation or the introduction of the provinces and their associated decentralisation, but not in any way and not at any price. The evidence we have heard before today from representatives of the ruling coalition led by the Prime Minister of the Government that it is a matter of political speculation and that those who do not jump into the air from the enthusiasm of the law that we are dealing with today are, in our opinion, incorrect and, above all, misleading. Why? Gentlemen from the coalition forgot that the LDS had already sought to amend Article 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia in the previous term, which was also the basis for reaching legislation. It failed because of what we now see as duplicity, because the change was blocked by the then opposition Coalition Slovenia, under the tactics of Janez Janša. And according to our judgment, this is an example of duality, deception and deception, not of what we are doing openly today. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have demanded from the beginning that the Government transmit the entire package of legislation to the National Assembly, with particular emphasis being placed on the need for a discussion and a decision on how many provinces will be linked to the other contents of some important laws in Slovenia. And recall or wish to recall our request of 5. 7th, 30th meeting of the National Assembly. There, in this request, we have pointed out that we really want to assess the financial and other consequences of the provincial legislation, so that these laws should be dealt with together with the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, as the whole regime also depends on the number of provinces. Both in organisational, functional, and especially in financial terms. And today all these debates show that we have not made any progress in this story. That this data is a prerequisite for quality and responsible decision-making and for reaching some compromise between political parties in Parliament, our efforts have come across deaf ears. Even with the biggest opposition party, I am talking about a time when it was an integral part of the partnership and where they believed that the ruling coalition would understand the opposition's warnings. Today the situation appears to be different, and so were they. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we did not hide it, nor do we intend that the opinion on the number of provinces is also different within the LDS. From our point of view, this is completely understandable, nothing that would be surprising and nothing that would be beyond the rules of democracy that we have decided and enforced in Slovenia. But it is true that some would like to view this as some new friction within the LDS. It's not like that. Various opinions are welcome and we have been working on these discussions in LDS, within the party. This is especially funny when some of the coalition who have a similar situation within them tell us. There is no longer any state secrecy, as Nova Slovenija considered that six provinces are a better solution. There is no more classified information that does not indicate that some Members of New Slovenia will not support coalition efforts or the entire coalition. And this is also clearly stated by the biggest opposition party, the Social Democrat, who is also experiencing this debate within the party. Some of us don't all stick in the same horn as they do in the biggest coalition party in which they have to work like the president does, but they dance after this beat. In order to enforce and force, in fact, parliamentarians, to make such a decision, all methods and all forms of pressure are used. Even the coalition had to have a joint conversation yesterday, in which the Prime Minister of the Government must have clearly wanted to discipline those who thought otherwise. As we can see, he didn't make the most of it, but it's not our problem, it's a coalition problem. Some are putting pressure on all of us with some letters to decide under the weight of arguments that are not arguments. Let me just illustrate today's letter from the President of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and my colleague, Franc Kangler, who clearly has to join in this thinking because his client colleague, Minister Žagar, is writing him legislation and applying it to us. So, Mr Kangler has this legitimate right, as an individual, to do so, but I believe that he has not abused this right on behalf of the SOS, and I hope that that is not the case. So this is the situation at this point where some people want to put something into effect on all the weights that we don't think is good in LDS. In his statements in recent days, Minister Žagar stressed that he had coordinated and coordinated with the parties before the legislation went into government procedure. This, at least as far as LDS is concerned, has not happened, is not true and is simply not true. What Minister Žagar had agreed and what he had coordinated and what he had agreed with other parties within the coalition or the former partnership we could not comment on, we were not there. However, as far as the LDS is concerned, the Minister knows well that we did not agree in any way that the two interviews in which the laws were presented were conducted were not about coordination, but merely about the presentation that there was no continuation of talks and possible coordination, not about the LDS, but about the fact that there was no initiative and call on the other side. At these meetings, we have always stressed or expressed the expectation that the Minister would submit to the National Assembly or the Government, as a basic and key document, a law establishing the provinces, and then two other unknown laws, which we also have today under consideration. At that time, we expected the Minister to have additional basis for the final decision, especially analyses and calculations for individual variants on the number of provinces, whether 3, 6, 8, 12, 14, the figures are known on the basis of which we could assess and identify the advantages and weaknesses of each variant and the consequences of individual variants from an organisational point of view, i.e. the number of landscapes, the number of worlds, the required services, the organisation of the landscape administration, the human resources and the functional aspect, which would bring data on the objective capacity of the landscapes and the management of the transferred state tasks, the scope of tasks carried over by individual variants and, in particular, the third time, from a financial point of view: how long these provinces will cost us, in particular in terms of providing funding for their underlying activities and the still open Regional Financing Act. Yesterday we heard an offer that was more for the hair drawn from our point of view to provide an autonomous source for financing the landscapes. If the autonomous source is part of the income that is supposed to give up on the provinces, then we probably don't understand what autonomous resources are and what the European Charter on Local Self-Government requires. Derogated income is indisputably not this autonomous resource. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the above simulations or analyses, and in particular the assessment of the financial implications, would be necessary for a final decision and that the number of landscapes would undoubtedly affect these decisions. For it is not possible to separate the second law from the package of provincial legislation, from how Slovenia will truly be divided territorially. In view of the possibility that this is a technical issue underestimating only the content and importance of this decision, it underestimates all the interested and, in particular, the professional public and casts sand in the eyes of those who only take the procedures legally. We have also repeatedly stressed in the Liberal Democracy that the emphasis on political reality is inappropriate for us to reach a common goal. Political reality has been made up. This is justified by the different opinions of municipal councils or mayors and institutions that represent politics, but do not represent, according to our opinion, citizens or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we have never heard of or ever made a serious public opinion survey on a representative sample of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who would ask them about the need or the way this Slovenia is regionalised. That's never happened. It's been a long time, and I think we would have gotten the different information that the government representatives or Minister Žagar are now trying to present. Let me stress in particular that, at least as we think, the LDS has always been consistent in their position, and we regret in some way that the Government and the ruling coalition have not listened to our warnings and suggestions, but have continued with their tactics to decide all other laws first, and then to those that are, by all logic, crucial to the establishment of landscapes. This is the law that we are considering today. Although the first three laws may have been put to a standstill in some way, perhaps under the influence of these warnings, the laws have not been definitively adopted, but with the minimum possibility that the amendment will change realistically, there are no major changes. Our forecast, which we wrote in the last paragraph of the already quoted letter, has come true. So, we have come into a situation where under weight and pressure we adopt the law instead of adopting it by consensus on the basis of arguments and previously coordinated thinking. The irresponsibility of not adopting the law or not adopting the laws must be attributed to the ruling coalition itself. If we know that the provisions of the law on the establishment of landscapes, which are also to be mentioned in the context of today's debate, are the first, indisputably our finding that the landscape is too much. Today, all the known facts show that the number 14 is too large and that there is an appropriate and realistic number that is probably based on everything that we know so far, we can estimate roughly. That could be six plus two. These six basics and two, we all know who we're thinking of, Koroška and Prekmurje. Prekmurje and Koroška should not be afraid of their position in this situation. However, we do not think that they can be the basis for the decision and subordinate this establishment of the provinces, that is, by this law on subordination solely because of these two provinces. These two provinces, however, will have their status undisputedly in the next activities of drafting this legislation. The marriage has a particularly obvious imbalance with the sworn autonomy of the provinces, which we all stress. If this is the autonomy of the National Assembly to determine the seat of the province and the seat of the world, then we do not believe in this autonomy. We believe that the competence of the National Assembly is merely to determine the seat of the Regional Council, everything else should be the subject of a debate within the province when it is formed. Let the province itself determine whether the seat of the provincial administration will be in the same city, place, as the seat of the world, or whether some of the administrative authorities may be moving to other places. So this, we think, is just a political adjustment, just because some of the environments in which it threatened not to receive support are satisfied. So, in the Liberal Democracy, we don't stick to it. A criterion may also have been used in the formation of areas of the landscapes that each province is a complete and rounded geographical whole. At least at three, we don't think that's true. How should Kamnik-Savavska, Notranjska or Prekmur-Pleška be a rounded geographical whole. They were never a province or an area that had this geographical roundness or a similar or identical identity. I think that this criterion of identity and belonging of people is also flawed. And if we ask Prekmurc or Prlek today, I don't want to expose only them, or have they ever in history judged together, and have they ever lived together in such a way as to connect into some form of organization, you will get the answer "no". And today we're trying to do this with some kind of artificial creation. We believe that the appropriate solution, or at least this criterion in this case, does not contain an expert judgement; it is likely that another was used as a basis for such a claim. The law raises the question in Article 27 as to whether we are capable and how the legislator or the proposer imagines that within 3 months of the establishment of the province he will adopt the statute of the province, the provincial budget and the decree establishing the provincial administration. So, we imagine that the budget is adopted by the administration, which must first be set up, all authorities must be set up to adopt the adoption process of the provincial budget. And we've been pushing it for the same period for three months, all at once. In fact, there are no technical reasons for this, and we think that this is the wrong solution. And we would like to point out that this article should also consider whether this is reasonable, appropriate and possible, unless Minister Žagar has an explanation that we do not know. One of the comparative countries of the Czech Republic used by the Czech Republic to illustrate how this degree of regional self-government, or local self-government, has been developed in our country. True, both countries are new members of the European Union and both countries, one has already accepted and one plans to establish 14 provinces, but there is a significant difference between them. One of these countries, this is the Czech Republic, has 10 million inhabitants, the other has Slovenia, has 2 million inhabitants, and is expected to have 14 provinces. In the Czech Republic, this means that the average province has 715.000 inhabitants, on average, because they also have the fact that this number ranges from about 500,000 to one and a half million. With us, this average number is 143,000 inhabitants, so the difference is obvious, we do not, therefore, comply with the criterion that Eurostat or the European Statistical Office requires and does not correspond to this number 150,000 as the smallest number of provinces, and this is what we have always stressed in our explanations, and what is not written in this explanation, some of us have had the opportunity to meet with some representatives of the Czech Republic Parliament, and the fact is that virtually all of us have been assured that they have made a mistake that their provinces are too many, that they should be fewer, and they are also joining the 8s, although with a significantly larger number of inhabitants. So another illustration of the case, which shows that we in Slovenia are re-created some of the unimaginable things that some people claim to be political realities. In this debate that we are experiencing today, it is necessary to recognise something, through the drafting or amendment of the Constitution, by preparing all the legislation, with the discussions we have so far, with the documents that we have on the table that we are actually taking a major step forward in the fact that there is a real possibility that legislation will be adopted sooner or later. There have never been so many foundations or so many bases to think about these issues. It is true that, according to our opinion from the round of participants in this debate, a part of these urgently needed actors, these are some experts, who have closed themselves too much into the circle of politics, too many in the circle of parliamentary groups, in the circle of the ministry, there have been fewer external experts who could have given, according to our opinion, a proper view of these issues which some doubt and here we are talking about. Yes, this debate is useful, this situation in which we today will facilitate the future debate on the establishment of this level of local self-government, and it must be acknowledged here that we are both parliamentarians and the Government or as Minister Žagar forwards and we do not deny it. However, we believe that it is time to stop this debate, that the conditions for the adoption of this legislation are not created, and that we must be aware that we are making the fate of Slovenia for a longer period of time and that it is not necessary to do so now. And to conclude, perhaps more by the way. Dramatic calls to the MPs of the Prime Minister, his words are: "All those who do not support such provincial legislation are against the decentralisation of the provinces. The landscape is still a long time," said 10 years ago, "it will not be if you do not do it today," according to our opinion, the call of the desperate man, who crawled out of his hands with the last great project of this coalition, which was left over from all the strong projects. Others have long been written off or unrealized. The threat of a universal deluge by Janša to LDS Members in deciding on this law will certainly not affect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. However, colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u14	Good afternoon! Dear Vice President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues, others present on the balcony! In presenting the position of the New Slovenia Group, I will return to the past in good faith first, when we discussed here in the National Assembly in the phase before the change of the Constitution, namely 121., 140 and 143. In the position of one of the opposition parties, the following is stated: "In the LDS Club, we have decided to propose, together with the Members of the Social Democrats, a procedure for amending the Constitution on regionalism, which was rejected or not completed by the National Assembly in the previous term. We are of the opinion that a great deal of work and coordination has been put in place and that on this basis the expert opinions provided strengthen the awareness of the need for these amendments. The current constitutional regime, however, is in fact making it difficult to establish landscapes and thus increasing the developmental differences between the periphery and the country's centre. Without amendments to the Constitution, as well as with some kind of government decree, it is impossible to command and establish landscapes in the whole territory of Slovenia since......"
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u15	Allow my colleague Martin Mikolić to present the views of the members of the groups. The matter that you are considering is the position of one of the other parliamentary groups you can express in the context of the debate. But I'm asking you to give your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u16	Allow us, presidents, to talk about what has happened in the past. I will proceed with our position.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u18	In a simple language, we have further stated, "We wanted to achieve by amending the Constitution that instead of executing the assigned task from the centre, Styrians, Prekmurci, Dolenjci, Gorenjci and Primors themselves will be able to carry out matters of regional importance. In order to reduce the developmental differences between the centre or Ljubljana and other parts of Slovenia, to make parts of Slovenia less developed, such as Prekmurje, can be developed more quickly, and to allow the country to do certain things that it is currently carrying out at the level of the provinces, municipalities or to be closer to the local population. Therefore, we also support the compromise proposal put forward by Members of all the parliamentary groups in 2006 to the National Assembly, as it draws most closely to this proposal for amendments to the Constitution that we have proposed in the National Assembly. I could still quote, but I'll finish the next quote. At the parliamentary club, we believe that this compromise proposal could finally lead to the establishment of the provinces. In the event of a successful amendment to the Constitution, the provinces could, with the appropriate political will, continue to operate in this mandate. We are aware, however, that the establishment of the provinces depends to the full on the political will of the ruling coalition. Let me say that the positions of the coalition groups were similar to those of the coalition groups. You can check this from the magnetograms. We were a little more detained in our parliamentary group. Similar content, except for the sentence I mentioned at the end, that the establishment of the provinces depends to the greatest extent on the political will of the ruling coalition. The fact is that some of us were already aware, today or tomorrow, when we decide to do so, it will be so much more obvious that the content of which we were talking about at the time can, in a positive sense, be brought to life only in the event that most of the Members we are in the National Assembly will also be supported by the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. Our position, the position of the New Slovenia Group in amending the Constitution and considering the first package of provincial legislation in the National Assembly, was that we would support the adoption of laws if the burden on the taxpayer for the introduction of the provinces did not increase, and if the tasks to be carried out by the provinces were clearly defined and the ministries were ready to move them to a lower level. However, with clearly defined tasks to be carried out by the provinces, it is also necessary to provide financial resources to carry out these tasks. We were the first to require the Government to provide us with a proposal for a law defining the tasks or competences of the provinces, as well as legislation governing the financing of those areas alone. We have been careful not to take on the authority of the congregations. When we discussed the first three laws, the Law on Provinces, the Law on Regional Elections and the Law on the Financing of the Provinces, we formed a position in the New Slovenia Group, which is reflected in eight points, and some of them will also be the basis or basis for presenting our position on the proposed legislation today. We have before us a proposal with 14 provinces, landscape areas and landscapes. And it is necessary to transfer tasks from individual ministries and financial resources to these provinces so that the statutory obligations can also be carried out. The proposed model of financing for the provinces provides financial resources, or so-called appropriate spending, to the extent that these tasks are currently carried out by individual ministries. Today, when we know the tasks that are being passed on, the rendering is quite simple. The calculations have been made and show a clear picture that we also wanted in our parliamentary group so that the provinces, when carrying out the statutory tasks, should not be financially malnourished. Other financial resources are so-called development funds, which will be available to the province autonomously and which projects will be given priority. And a lot of criticism from the opposition is about the Land Financing Act, especially regarding autonomous resources for financing the provinces. They proposed some adjustments to the law itself, or formula in calculating the appropriate consumption, especially a new model to otherwise regulate the financing of the provinces, and there is no opposition. And why isn't it? Because it's not that simple. Because in Slovenia we have too many developmental differences between individual regions. And if we want to make a difference, in all cases we will find that developed regions or that the most developed Central Slovenia will gain even more. Solidarity must therefore play an important role in today's known situations. Developmental differences can only be reduced in one and only way, by making a fortune to the less and more poor. If it's wrong to say that it's taken from the rich and that I'm poor. By increasing economic growth and increasing gross social product, these differences are only increasing. And the easiest thing to say is, "The law sucks!" But you don't have an alternative. But such a proposal, which will reduce development differences, will be within the scope of the state budget's available funding. We will only be able to talk about a completely different model of funding when we have at least a little relief from these differences. In the New Slovenia Group, we were in the position that a development risk index should be included in the financing, which should certainly play a more important role in the allocation of funds. In Nova Slovenije, we have worked in coordination for solutions that will provide all the provinces with a strong development component. The provinces must become a generator of coherent regional development, as this is also the primary objective of the introduction of the provinces - decentralisation and the provision of coherent regional development in Slovenia. In our view, it would be unacceptable to introduce new taxes in Slovenia for the establishment of the provinces, thereby allowing for some kind of regional autonomy in the area of financing. Slovenia is a small country to introduce a system of fiscal competition between the provinces. In New Slovenia, we were the first to make quite clear our opinion that 14 provinces are too many and that we will try to make the landscape as few as possible. We also presented our position to the Slovenian public. The vast majority have supported us in our efforts for a small number of provinces, but at the same time no one would give up his land. Once again, no one would give up their country. And this story of a smaller number of landscapes is now over, at least for those who are real, and for those who still hope or hope that we will have the provinces in Slovenia in this mandate. The original sin was estimated to have been made years ago by the so-called 12 statistical development regions under the Harmonised Regional Development Act and then by 2 more sub-regions. The statistical regions, according to the existing operating system, do not today represent any cost. It is different with the provinces, so we should already think that the statistical regions are likely to be the basis for future landscapes. If we were to then adopt legislation defining Stierska, Dolenjska, Gorenjska, Primorsko and so on and end up at number 6, in the worst case case 7 or 8, which would not be difficult, today no one would have valid arguments to further crush Slovenia. With this, we today would have the perfect base for the number of landscapes. It's hard to take away something you've already given him or already told him to have. I must say, in Novi Slovenija we were somewhat surprised by the proposal to divide the seats of the provincial administration and the seats of the provincial council, in 9 cases from 14 provinces. We could just discuss this, although we all know today that this was some compromise solution in cases where there was no agreement on where the provincial administration would be based. It would make sense, in our view, if we are already giving the possibility that the provincial council does not have a seat where the provincial administration has it, that the head of the provincial council should be registered in the law only for the first term and then decided by the provincial council. Otherwise, we didn't write down where the council of mayors would meet. The current world of the region also sits in different parts of the region. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this area needs to be completed in the second stage. In Novi Slovenije, we have always advocated the need to obtain the opinion of municipalities or municipal councils when establishing the provinces, and this has also been done and serious comments have also been introduced into the law. The proposal to call for a preliminary consultation referendum on whether to establish 14 provinces in the territory of Slovenia is deemed to be unnecessary by our assessment of this time and with such a question as proposed by Members of the Zares Group, and has recently been joined by members of the SD, unnecessary and, as such, would not answer any questions raised at the time of the establishment of the provinces. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the referendum would not answer the most important question whether we are citizens and citizens for the regionalisation of Slovenia. Moreover, Prekmurec would decide whether Korošec would have a province and vice versa. The referendums make sense in the area of each proposed province, in the event of a previous constitutional regime where the possibility of the provinces being established from below was possible. If we assume that voters in the referendum would be negatively identified, the National Assembly or legislator would not actually know whether the voters voted against the proposed number of provinces or voted against the introduction of the provinces at all. My presentation may have concluded that the majority of Members of the New Slovenia Group support decentralisation, and we believe that this law, as well as the next two, is suitable for further consideration. A two-thirds majority of those present need to vote in favour both in the first and last reading, if I may say so. That is why it would be right, and in New Slovenia we will strive to listen in the interim to good proposals to complement all laws of the coalition and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I know that running a meeting of the National Assembly is an extremely responsible and difficult task. I also know why you interrupted my colleague, Mr Martin Mikolić, because, in my previous position, I showed my dissatisfaction with your hands because Mr Milan Petek used and presented everything other than the position of the LDS Club. My procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President, is that you also apply the same criteria to New Slovenia. I believe that you will continue to do so, and I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your warning. Of course I can say yes. I will only ask that, in the context of the presentation of the views of all parliamentary groups, not only for New Slovenia, express your own view of the law. Otherwise, thank you. We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u22	Dear President! Honourable Minister with co-workers, MPs, MPs, those on camera! How cordially greeted! Today's 35th meeting of the National Assembly is entirely devoted to the discussion of three provincial laws. According to the Slovenian People's Party, this is one of the key discussions and the establishment of the provinces is a key project of this coalition. The failure to establish the provinces is undoubtedly the greatest defeat not only of this coalition but of the entire National Assembly. Finally, it must be made clear from the outset that a large majority of Members have supported the establishment of the provinces until recently. The search for such and other excuses just prior to the decision in the National Assembly is all more than responsible. Regardless of other facts, we all remember the establishment of congregations together. Laws on local self-government and the financing of municipalities have been constantly changing, in fact, the development of legislation. And the establishment of landscapes is the beginning of the development of a new level of local self-government. Therefore, today it is not possible to provide ideal or almost ideal solutions to all issues related to the establishment of the landscapes. It is rare, however, that we would expect from today’s perspective to claim that the establishment of the congregations was a mistake. It is evident that the congregations have also helped to develop more neglected areas. However, without wider provincial communities, more polycentric development will not be possible, but it is a fact. The proposal for a law establishing the provinces establishes the provinces and determines their areas, names and seats, and the number of members of the first provincial councils. The law lays down the criteria according to which the areas, names and seats of the provinces and the number of members or members of the first provincial councils and regulates the establishment of the provinces. The proposed law is, in our view, suitable for further consideration. To a large extent, it has already been harmonised, but we are confident that we will all strive to reconcile some more open issues. At the same time, I am simply warning that they cannot and must not be the price of not setting up the province to end the individual local areas because of dissatisfaction with its seat or name. The Slovenian People's Party has always advocated the principle of subsidiarity. We believe that the establishment of local self-government in the form of municipalities was one of the most important decisions that has passed on the leadership of local communities to people living there and thus contributed to the more equitable development of Slovenia. In particular, to develop basic infrastructure in the most underdeveloped regions of Slovenia. Despite the achievements of the municipalities so far, due to over-centralisation, the differences between the development of individual regions are still too great. In the future, the Slovenian People's Party will also seek to reduce the differences between individual Slovenian regions with measures and policies in different areas, and advocate a balanced or coherent regional development. It is the duty of the State to enable all the people of Slovenia to be able to stay and develop in a sustainable manner. Too many regional differences are to blame for citizens and citizens living in less developed regions. The Slovenian People's Party actively participated in the development of local self-government and with its many mayors made it possible to develop Slovenia more evenly. In the future, the Slovenian People's Party will also seek to strengthen the position of local self-government in the system of enforcement to enhance the democratic character of local self-government, in accordance with the principles of direct and representative democracy, and to ensure its effectiveness. We advocate even greater autonomy of the municipalities and, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we are working consistently to increase their role. In the Slovenian People's Party, we insist on completing the establishment of the provinces as soon as possible, as other levels of local self-government. This will allow for additional financial decentralisation of the country, faster development of our society and greater prosperity for all citizens. We strive to ensure that the provinces are given the highest powers in all areas where this is meaningful and necessary. In this National Assembly, we have shown our intention to regulate the provinces as a second level of local self-government at the time of the appointment of the current Government, when we also proposed a Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In fact, we all talk a lot about coherent regional development, and movements in this direction are urgent, but are also significantly too small or too slow. The latest legislative changes to mention only the role of regional centres, of course, have provided a number of important guidelines for faster and more equitable development of all regions of Slovenia. More concrete measures should be launched to ensure regional development. And the establishment of landscapes is undoubtedly an important step in this direction. Just as the establishment of municipalities has brought important progress in all parts of Slovenia, the establishment of landscapes will undoubtedly ensure a certain degree of decentralisation and even development of our country. There may still be some doubt as to the purpose of establishing another level of local self-government, but I think that if we go to ask people about the effects of the establishment of local self-government in the form of municipalities, they have a very positive view of them. The financing of all parts of Slovenia through municipal budgets has enabled the establishment of emergency infrastructure for all places, including those that have been severely neglected in the larger municipalities. Now, for developmental reasons in particular, a slightly wider approach is needed, i.e. a regional or provincial approach, as individual municipalities are too small to be able to effectively promote their development in the wider area themselves. In general, in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we assess the proposed Law on the Establishment of Landscapes and also the other provincial laws that we will consider at this meeting as appropriate and well prepared. Finally, it must be pointed out that the proposed laws have been produced through many different consultations and that many experts and other interested partners have been involved in the preparation. Legislation was being prepared to seek a broad consensus, as we are all aware that a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly is required to establish the province's legislation definitively. I would also like to say that, in fact, the basics - on regional policies that have been emerging over the last 10, 15 years - have been used. At the end of this opinion, let me also touch on the assessments of the financial implications that these laws have and will have for the state budget. The establishment of the provinces will be based solely on transfers of both staff and financial resources between the State, the provinces and the municipalities. We believe that this objective can be achieved - good coordination and, above all, good operational implementation of the establishment of the provinces will be required. Any irregularities in the establishment of the provinces and in the actual reallocation of staff and financial resources would certainly have greater financial implications than expected. However, we are confident that the financial impact will be neutral. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration and we will listen to all opinions and comments. Our objective is clear as soon as possible to adopt all the necessary provincial legislation, so we will strive for consensus, as this key law in the area of provincial law requires a two-thirds majority of the Members present. The Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law for the benefit of Slovenia and I hope that others will join us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u24	Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Thank you for your word. Today is supposed to be a big Thursday if tomorrow is a big Friday, as regards regional legislation or regionalisation in Slovenia. The fundamental law to be addressed, although unfortunately the debate is broader, on the establishment of landscapes is that fundamental law, on which virtually everyone else in the package of regional legislation depends - one more, the other less. Unfortunately, we have only received it after a persistent demand that the package of regional legislation, the original three financing laws, the bodies and the elections be supplemented by these further three laws. We are deeply convinced in the Zares Group that the Government has either made a big mistake by delivering us from this large package of legislation, or it was a conscious speculation in the sense that five laws, which do not require a two-thirds majority, would receive sufficient support for the position, and then put the National Assembly and the Slovenian public in front of the wall: we lack only one more than what depends. And it is also in this sense to understand the events and performances of the candidates in recent weeks or in recent days. What do we read about the proposed Law on the Establishment of Landscapes? First of all, the proposal ignores domestic expertise. It is known that the domestic profession advocates mostly 6-8 provinces on the basis of economic, social, geographical, comparative, cross-border, national and other reasons where an acceptable lower limit is to be measured by the population of 100,000 inhabitants. The Government's proposal in five cases since the 14th, which is more than a third, ignores this lower limit or this argument and is said to be a political reality. Political reality, if you try to express yourself mathematically, is a dependent variable of time. The landscapes we establish and if our desires and desires are genuine, they cannot be time-dependent, but they should be at least to some extent a constant, quality solution. The applicant did not submit any study or analysis of the effectiveness and costs of the proposed solution, as the main reason for decentralisation or regionalisation, which is a function of decentralisation, is better governance of the country. On this issue, there is no answer to the dilemmas raised in this regard, and so the proponents turn to historical arguments, to the will of the people, if I say so. Historical arguments or the fact that a few decades ago someone divided Slovenia for some other needs into statistical areas or statistical regions, as we have summarized later, have greatly torn the argument for today's time, in particular for the future for which the provinces are to be established. The will of the people or the will of the people is at all questionable. In one of the 210 congregations alone, however, who has asked the people about the will or what they think about the solution or any other suggestions they have not made? To say that the will has been summed up at the will of municipal councils, mayors and other local and also national political Februarys does not bear serious criticism, and it would have been a time for this argument no longer to be used. Interestingly, in the absence of a modest explanation, the summary or indication of this search is corrected by the representatives of the municipalities, primarily the municipal councils. True, 182 out of 210 responded, representing a relatively high percentage. But there is a significant lack of analysis of these views, as well as of the report, which of the opinions or opinions of the municipalities were covered in the final proposal of the Government. We know, in the opinion of the Slovenian profession, that everything that is more than 8 is equally bad, that it should be 12, 14, 16 there until after 20, which would be the theoretical and practical possibility of irresponsible partitioning in Slovenia. So the question is, what about the nomadic area, what about Prleka, and we could also mention if the government has already decided on more than 8, more than 12 and so on - why are these areas ignored? Nowhere in the explanation of the proposal is any of the 14 provinces justified! They are given in a standard explanation of one general explanation. However, if this, or modest explanation, is read a little bit more in detail, we see that what is listed there and tried to be used as an argument is simply not held up on most of the 14 landscapes. They just can't take it! Then the proponent from this question of how to professionally justify 14 because he has politically erased something else in some irresponsible way. There is no simple answer, as there is no answer, why some comments or exchanges have been taken into account and others have not been taken into account. Of course, in the context of political reality, it is illogical not to say anything worse, dividing the headquarters of administrations and worlds in nine regions from 14. Of course, it is clear to everyone that this is a valuable populist measure, which should only be used at the moment to find more supporters of this project, at the same time that the applicants have realized that this proposal or this solution is problematic, and they have already withdrawn a step back, since this is just for the first time, and that the saints of the province should decide both on the headquarters of the Council and the administration. I think that doing so in both cases is irresponsible and clear enough that it is not possible to do so at home, sit down. Of course, they recognise such approaches, proposing that there are already 14 problems with some of the centres of these planned regions, as many of the originally planned centres are either running out or are extremely modest in their gravitational backs, and this needs to be replaced by some political argument that is not adequately compensated. Furthermore, in general, I stress the general introductory explanation, as I have already said, although the explanation is modest, some things simply do not withstand serious criticism. Let me just point out two or three. For example, they refer to existing integration processes. There are a few, but very few. In a number of cases, of these 14, there would be principles to other processes. Then there's talk of regional identity. It is difficult to talk about regional identity in this confusion of names, or you could list cases where it is not possible to talk about this at all, even though in the past some political, geographical symposia has been financed to invent some regional identities. It is even worse, even less possible to talk about some, in a large number of cases than these 14 cases, about the belongings of people. Even worse is the one about fiscal and functional interdependence. At least in this sense, the proposed financing law and other legislation, which is so frozen somewhere in some procedural procedure, is simply impossible to speak. Of course, rejecting this bad thing, not to say, although I would not like to use such harsh words, the irresponsible proposal does not mean, on our part, from the Zares Group, opposition to regionalisation. Therefore, we strongly reject all such instigations that our concerns, our comments, our commitment to actually ascertain the will of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, what they think about this regionalisation, are most strongly rejected. It is precisely because of the absence of professional arguments that could in some way enhance our responsibility in such an important decision as the decision on regionalisation in Slovenia that we wanted and want to continue and insist on a referendum. It is not necessary that the question that has been proposed can be supplemented, but more can be added, although it is true that the answer to this question gives answers to a number of questions that can be asked differently, so of course we cannot accept the view that this question that we have proposed does not provide the necessary answers. We agree that it is possible, as always, to set things even more decisively or qualitatively. That I do not violate the Rules of Procedure or enter into an area which will be subject to the consideration of two other laws or which has already been dealt with in the first of these laws, let me conclude that we will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members. Not to be a nuisance, but we simply cannot because it is inadequacy, irresponsible and not in the interest of the development of Slovenia; in particular, we will not inherit such manipulations with statistics and certain numbers as we have witnessed here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I ask the Members present for more attention. Colleagues, I beg of you, let us hear the views of two other groups of Members! Thank you. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want a nice hello to all of you! I appreciate that the situation has in fact been completely cleared up. If MEPs and Members vote as foretold, then it is not difficult to decide that the process will be halted tomorrow. Whether that's good or not, we have different ideas about it. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this is not the best and only possible solution, but it shows that more than one third of those who will vote will vote in such a way that the process will be stopped, that there will be no more opportunities to seek, that everyone will gain, but that a large part of the Members and Members will be put in the position of "out-out" or the position of interruption of the process that has lasted for a very long time and that, I fear, the piano will be stopped. Of course, all those who will stop this process will continue to be amazed at how they are for decentralisation, how they are for the equitable development of the regions, how they are for the transfer of management functions and development functions closer to people and how we are separated by small nuances. But I think it's not just about nuances, about finding a path, about nuances in how to get closer to these goals, but actually about a fundamental decision - to stop or not this process. In the DeSUS Group, we have not prevented this process in any way, we have supported it. This is what we will do in tomorrow's vote, so we will probably support it in the future, when and if this process continues in due course from different starting points, it looks like. In doing so, we do not hide anything that we ourselves have had many concerns. From the very beginning. From there, as local government legislation changed, which was necessary to multiply congregations across all smart numbers, so we feel. We also opposed certain solutions regarding the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, and we also opposed such solutions as the Law on Community Editors, and we disputed similar things. Not to stop the process that is now continuing, because this process of provincialisation is in some way the continuation of those starting points that are set out in the laws that I have just mentioned. We know that what is now being proposed is not an ideal approximation. That can't be achieved either. And we don't know anything, but we believe that nothing should have contributed if we really decided to go to the referendum, so we don't know what that would have done, except to rekindle those who haven't read most of the legislation. I am sure that many Members and Members have not been able to make this effort to read all these mountains of paper. And people would probably have made the same decision as the referendum question was raised. If I simplify this a little bit, are you against the government? And: Are you against what the Government proposes? Because there is really no one else in this matter. On the basis of this in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the real conclusion is that, as the time of the national elections approaches, the opposition's willingness to discuss this legislation has been reduced, and there is a greater willingness to stop all of this. In the DeSUS Group, we think that would be a mistake. We appeal, we offer further room for reflection, to improve what is now before us on the tables. It can still be arranged, but it's not like we're gonna stop it with the "out-out" system tomorrow. The provinces themselves will not bring improvement. Even now, according to these analytical data that we have received and that some consider misleading, it seems that some statistical regions from similar origins have made very different progress; one more quickly, the other a little slower. So there are other factors that are important, not just provincialisation, not just the administrative delimitation of individual areas, but probably also needed to bring people closer to decision-making. The question of the referendum also raises an additional question. What would happen if there were 51% of people at the referendum to support the issue, knowing that a two-thirds decision was needed in the National Assembly of all those who would be present and who would vote. What kind of signal would that be? Who would then be firm in their decisions if one vote could mean either one or another variant? So we're just assessing, maybe it's not malicious, but we're assessing that this is not the right move. The real move would be to continue the discussions, the real move would be to find new solutions, and it seems to us, at least in the DesSUS Group, that the ministry, the minister who even made a request today, is more and more willing to seek compromise solutions in individual areas with the opposition. I believe that this is also the position of the Government, and the position of the DeSUS Group is certainly the same. We will therefore support the continuation of this process, which means that we will vote in favour of assessing that the laws are suitable for further consideration as well as for possible corrections.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the National Party will be presented by Member Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable mayor with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The government has decided to propose 14 provinces with the most suitable basis and has also sent this to be considered under this law, which we now have as one of the most important before us. And she's not the same. The fact is, what I will also say later is that two ministers are still arguing today about what is better. There's a battle between Virant and Zhagar. That's what the media said. The municipal councils were identified by names and great disagreements were held in Koroška because they opposed the seat which would have to be in Slovenj Gradc. And, of course, Goriška krajina has its position through a civil initiative in Primorsk, Ajdovščina, Vipava, Sežana, Izola and Komen have united in the municipal councils for a single Primorsko. And last but not least, the 14,700 signatures that we have brought to the President of the National Assembly speak of the fact that there is nowhere to be found, a certain name to be invented in a certain office, and it is not in any way in line with the region. Of course, we are sailors in a clear position not to allow this, in fact, to be played with Primorska. The seaside wants to be united, I can say this here and now, and if there is a need, we will organise a referendum and the whole of Primorska will rise. That's what's gonna happen. You can believe that. We oppose the 14 provinces and disagree with the 9th article, which speaks of the Istrian-Kraška region - interestingly, the name Primorska is just released from the law as if it were not. And if this law happens to be supported by a strange coincidence today, we will table an amendment and start activities at the possible reception of the referendum. We also disagree with Article 11. The SNS advocates the position that the head office of the Regional Council and administration in Slovenj Gradec should be, as we say. Minister Žagar has undoubtedly done a lot of work with his team in connection with this law, but he has also changed his mind a lot, and last but not least, the coordinated proposals have returned to the point of discussion and coordination and have raised new open issues, and when we adopt the Constitution, which we had first as a condition that we can change this law, we have changed the 121st, 140th and 143rd articles, we have also made clear in the Slovenian National Party that we want to make the constitutional category in fact, otherwise what happened with the municipalities will happen. First we had 56, today we have 210. I would like to mention another point when we can say that we are following Europe and want to be as popular as possible - the trend in the EU is to reduce the number of landscapes, and I do not understand why we are increasing the number in us if we want to be European. The second problem is disagreement, as has already been said, between the two ministers with different opinions, one advocates a single system, the other two-tier system, and I wonder where these 90% bureaucrats will go, sitting here today in White Ljubljana in various administrative areas, ministries and so on. Do you know how many employees this is? 4,000 employees! Will these people ride to Trbovlje, Ptuj, Mursko Sobota, Upper Kungoto, Sežana and so on? They won't. There'll be new ones. You're gonna stay here and it's gonna be an extra red tape. It also bothers us that you have excluded your expertise in the design of this marriage foundation. The Faculty of Public Administration expressed its dissatisfaction at its 50th anniversary in Portorož last year because it did not participate in the preparation of the entire provincial legislation. But here are doctors, professors, real experts from the Faculty of Public Administration who are advocates of a double-tier system and would like to ask them what this legislation should look like. But you've gone around them. You speak of having great harmony with the congregations. That's not true! You had it, after you've changed this law, you don't have it anymore. You have a lot of disagreements. I called myself, I sent a public call to the coastal mayors to act as our, the Sežan mayor, Davorin Terčon, who put it to the vote. We have unanimously voted that we want to have a single Primorska because we know that only such a territorially sufficient, economically appropriate and also university-strong. And share something so that you will have different interests in the provinces and that you will have different "greetings", that we will fight better and that you will rule more easily - this is a unity, gentlemen. That's what you do. I am sure that most of these days in the National Assembly will not accept and confirm. But I'll be sad if this miracle happens because miracles happen to you. I hope this miracle doesn't happen to you today. Looking ahead, the formation of the landscapes and their seats is not sufficiently taken into account by demographic - neither geographical nor economic or other connections. You just missed it. This has been warned by many, and today you have been alerted to these warnings by the deaf as if they were not there. We'll go ahead, bulldozer, and, of course, we'll do it. Why - small mayors want their feuds. Please, what some of my colleagues have been saying here today is unanimity. If you ask citizens and citizens, they will tell you clearly what we are saying: in the Slovenian National Party, we want all legislation in this area to be adopted in one package and not one law today, the other tomorrow, and the next day, we will see which one. And we want, of course, to rediscover all disagreements, to open up all public debates and reduce the deficit of consensus to at least about 10%, and then draw out some healthy legal matter that can still come to the National Assembly in this term, in May or June. This is a healthy decision and responsible if we want to drive it as others expect of us. See, a new law, if adopted as it is, offers the opportunity to make decisions about the city's attributes, such as hospitals, health homes, schools and more. In fact, we are raping some who have already made it clear that they do not want this, for example, the Illyrian-Bistrike area, to live where they do not want to live. They've been referendums before, and they will be. For the whole of Primorsko, I can say once again with certainty, because you proposed in this law, you have released the name Primorska, this is unacceptable for all the Primors who sit here. But if so, then it's a shame that they're elected by the Primorska. Primorska last joined the matrix of Slovenia. For this she bled for a decade and a half before the rest of Slovenia, was exposed to terrorism and fascism and would not allow it. If necessary, as has already been said, all of Primorska will rise, this is our anthem and it will be heard here, until the white Ljubljana. What you're doing by will is just mind-blowing. The coastal region will be united and if this public call is taken into account, we will soon be able to get the answers of all the mayors, because I believe they will decide on this on their municipal councils. But if the reason for the civil initiative is listened to, as the Government does, they also respond to anonyms, etc., and then we get the bill we have. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I think that also because of other areas, because of the Kamni-Sava region, which has been called into some crumbling again, as has already been said in Koroška, Primorska and other comments which were in place, this law is not supported here today. Why don't you let the minister do some more work? I gave him praise today and let him not make such leaps or "salta mortale" in his opinion back. If there's anything coordinated, let's take that into account. Certain things in this law were already in harmony with the congregations, and he eventually overlooked them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. And we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. And the first one has the word only Member Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The division of Slovenia into the provinces is a very difficult project, which no one has yet implemented. We have been preparing for this for more than ten years, ever since we have established new congregations with us and started reforming local self-government. We supported the regionalisation of Slovenia at all times by the Social Democrats, but not at all costs. The basic condition for support is well-prepared legislation. This package that's being treated is a long way from that. During the previous term of office, the project failed during the constitutional amendment phase when the SDS was pulled as leader of the opposition and the coalition SLS. I think that enough success has already been achieved for this mandate to allow us to adopt provincial legislation by amending the Constitution at all. In the autumn, we had to adopt all the laws by the end of 2007. Part of the laws was stuck in October just before the second reading vote, and the second part is in general treatment only today, the last day of January 2008. The fact is that the Government and the competent ministry of the project took up at least six months too late, although it cannot be denied that very much work and effort had been done in the preparation of the legislation. But the uniform evaluation of the profession is that the laws are not prepared properly. As for the number of landscapes, there are fundamental differences. The profession advocates a maximum of 6 to 8 provinces, and the political reality of Dr. Zhagar is 14 provinces. All of this was further relativised by the Prime Minister himself when he said that the solutions to the province-building law, which we have to adopt with the two-thirds majority of Members present, could change in the provincial parliaments. The names of the province and the seat of the provinces, both the seats of the provincial parliaments and the seats of the provincial administrations, are to be freely changed. It is likely that the President of the Government was betrothed or was reading the Constitution and the laws on a superficial basis. With such a new solution, they would have introduced instability in a variety of regions in advance. The idea of an advisory referendum on the establishment of the provinces is very close to me. I think that citizens and citizens should ask the referendum whether they support the regionalisation of Slovenia and in what way. The questions should also be very difficult to ask. If they were given a term of election and electorate, they would continue the project. We asked people at the referendum about Sunday's schedule of trades and about the largest decentralisation project in Slovenian history, which was not necessary. If, after the referendums on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union and the link Then what people need to be asked about, we must ask them whether they support or do not support the regionalisation of Slovenia. If what the President of the Government says is true, that this is not a project of this government, but a joint project of the whole of Slovenia, then we can adopt legislation in peace and with consideration in the first year of the next term, irrespective of the outcome of the elections. The legislation could be definitively adopted in 2009, and in 2010 the provincial elections would also be held with the locals, and the provinces would in practice be revived as of 1 January 2011. We have before us the most important set of provincial laws. I think that there is still an open debate on the number of landscapes, the seats of the provincial councils and the seats of the provincial administrations, the transfer of powers from the country to the province and, above all, the way of financing the provinces. When we established municipalities and later, when we witnessed the further fragmentation of municipalities, additional financial resources were provided for their functioning. Therefore, we can see that there is so much interest in the establishment of new congregations, especially because the congregations automatically receive more money. The Finance Minister, who, if I am not mistaken, was not at any meeting where we discussed the provincial legislation - I also miss it today - says that this project will have the character of a financial neutral operation. If that's the case, then I think the project is doomed to failure. If we want to establish landscapes, something new is said, then we must also provide new, autonomous, budgetary resources and, of course, more resources for this novelty. For the provinces are not and will not be cheap. How difficult it will be to carry out this project has already been a eloquent witness to a map of the comments that the municipalities have forwarded to the Ministry and the Government before the formal call and the 60-day deadline that they had at their disposal to provide their views on future provinces. Some of the municipalities of Gorenje wanted to establish the Upper-Gorenje region, Ljubljana was seen as a separate province, in Ilirska Bistrica there was a referendum for graduation from the Notranj region and inclusion in the South Primorska region. Similar ideas are now emerging in Postojna and Beerka. In Goriška or North Primorska, however, there is much discussion about the name of the province itself. Nova Gorica wants to keep the name Goriška krajina, and most other congregations would prefer to see it called the Northern Primorska krajina. Of course, if the provinces are established, I stand for two provinces, the South Sea and the North Sea. The name Primorska must be returned to law and there is no compromise here. In my constituency in 1993, there was even a referendum on the establishment of the Idrian-Church region, and we do not have completely uniform positions. When we look at the conclusion of the Idrija and church council, there are many differences in details. Above all, I am sure that, since the establishment of the provinces, they will take the most directly to the seats of these 14 provinces, and everyone else as much as they will find themselves or as many crumbs of bread will remain on the table. The only real offer to the Idrian-Church sub-region is the seat of the Idrija Regional Council, and this could be changed by the provinces later on, as the Prime Minister of the Government said. My thesis is that with the new provinces they will gain only the centres of these new communities, and all the other areas will go backwards or not. After all, this project is supported mainly in these 14 centres. Here I see the added value. What about more than 10 other centers? For it is more than 40 former municipal centres that we had before the reform of local self-government in 1994. Centres such as Idrija, Tolmin, Ajdovščina, Sežana, Piran, Izola, Illyrian Bistrica, Škofja Loka, Radovljica, Jesenice, Tržič will go back. If I only list the center of the former municipalities in Primorsk and Gorenjska, which will not be the center of these new provinces. Since 1990, these centres have lost a type of competence and financial resources and human resources potential. Tax administrations, geodetic administrations, defence stations, inspection services. We're supposed to reorganize administrative units now. What about health care, high school, amateur culture, not to mention transferring the powers of closing Slovenian mines to the provincial level! For example, the national status of the Primorski Drama Theatre in Novi Gorica is abolished. It's all too reckless. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to different positions in the government itself. Last year, a working version of the State Administration Act was rounded up in the National Assembly. If I summarize its content briefly, then I can say that fourteen new administrative circuits are being introduced, involving 58 existing administrative units, 58 existing management structures with 204 local offices. It is said that in 14 provinces we would have a parallel structure of 14 administrative thefts, which is still advocated today by the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Virant. Such a solution is in direct contravention of article 14 of the Lands Act, which accurately defines the delegated state tasks to the provinces. The provincial legislation of duality does not know. The provinces will also carry out the tasks performed by the administrative units. With this confusion, which also reigns in the government, a number of questions arise. Has the government proposed a package of provincial legislation with figs in its pocket, knowing that the matter will fail because it does not have enough support within coalition species? Otherwise, there is no explanation for the fact that at another ministry, it is said, at the Ministry of Public Administration, they were preparing legislation that is directly contrary to the legislation we are currently considering. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me get this. It is necessary to correct and improve provincial legislation, ask people at the referendum whether they agree with the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia or not, and on the positive outcome of 2009 finally adopt legislation, in 2010 conduct the provincial elections and implement the provinces in practice as of 1 January 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. However, Member Franz Jazbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will also begin with the historic opportunity that Slovenia took first advantage of with plebiscite and independence and took second advantage of the adoption of legislation on local self-government in 1994 and the introduction of municipalities from 1.1.1995, and claim that Slovenia today has a third historic opportunity by adopting a package of provincial legislation and by introducing landscapes in Slovenia. I do not agree with those speakers who have said before me in a way that these opportunities are not necessary and do not support them. These same people did not support these opportunities in 1991, and then they were the first to take up power in that country, which was then created. We have before us the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, which is a kind of roof law and is adopted by a two-thirds majority of all Members present in the National Assembly. The law is given much greater attention precisely because of the way in which it is adopted. In regionalisation itself, anything other than the name and seat of the province is essential. The main competences are the financing of the landscapes, in short, the content on which the decentralisation of the country and the more coherent development is successfully achieved, which should be even across Slovenia. In an attempt to adopt the Constitution in the previous coalition in the sixth month of 2004, the then internal minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, presented or drew attention to a strategy that included, inter alia, a version of 14 provinces. Therefore, I claim that the theory or draft law with 14 provinces has not revealed this coalition and this government as some warm water, but this is something that you have discussed in previous government coalitions. After the amendment of the Constitution in 2006, when all the conditions for the adoption of the laws on the enforcement of the provinces were actually laid down, last summer we discussed the first package of three laws and today before us the so-called second package of provincial legislation, a package that is actually supported by 87% of all municipal councils, a package that received Community support from the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. Last or last week, on Friday, when Dr. Ivan Žagar and the President of the Government hosted the council of mayors, a large majority of these mayors supported this package of provincial legislation and provincialisation. It is almost unusual, however, that these laws or packages of these three laws are supported by the State Council with such a high percentage. In recent months, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have visited future regions and it is clear from the discussions on these future regions that this province's legislation has a very high degree of agreement and support on the ground. In the past weeks and months, I have also visited several round tables where we have discussed this very topic of provincial legislation. I must say that even at these round tables, where representatives of various political options participated, it was felt that all Slovenians somehow wanted this second stage of local self-government to be carried out in practice. During the summer months of last year, all Slovenian municipalities were invited to give their views on the present package of provincial legislation. The government service has incorporated most of these opinions that have arrived into the draft laws, so we have received as many as 9 provinces, which have separate seats of the provincial councils and separate seats of the provincial administrations, and some of the new names of these future provinces have also been created. I believe that, while the Government has adopted legislation with these corrections and that when these laws have been brought before the National Assembly, and when the President of the National Assembly has then forwarded them to all local communities for consideration, that it will be necessary in the second reading in the field of names and in the field of those comments, which have been taken into account, that a number of amendments have been adopted. For this is the only way that this provincial law or the Law establishing the provinces can be more satisfying for all Slovenes and Slovenes. Why 14 provinces? In the beginning, I kind of mentioned that these 14 provinces had a previous coalition in mind. The fact that Slovenia has 12 statistical provinces and two sub-regions is the only real basis from which we can come and from which it was worth entering 14 provinces into the draft law. I think that we can only adopt provincial legislation on the condition that we do not think about a smaller number, but of course not a larger number. In other words, each marriage can be improved with good supplements. The evidence of bad legislation is the last moment, which the opposition has yet to find for the legislation tabled. For when we first considered the first package of three laws, the only wish was that the provincial legislation was on the table in a package of all six laws. Today, when we have this, it was necessary to find another excuse and this excuse is: provincial legislation is bad. I am only afraid that if this legislation does not receive adequate support, and if after the autumn elections the government structure is replaced, that you will bring the same legislation to the table in the next term and then claim how good it is, it is true that if we are then in opposition, you will make this legislation really impossible to challenge. My assessment is such that, although this legislation should be adopted in packages, first the first three laws that have already been adopted in the first reading and then the Law on the Transfer of Competence, which is now in the second package, could only be dealt with by the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes and only at the end of the Electoral District Act, because the Law on Electoral Districts is strongly bound by the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. As far as the referendum is concerned, I say that it is unnecessary from everything we have heard so far. And look at something, in 1994, when new congregations were established under the legislation of that time, research referendums were held everywhere. Most of the polls were negative, and yet, at the time, the National Assembly established congregations beyond the will of the people, while the congregations were set up by the will of the people, I say that none of those congregations today wants change and does not want a different organization than they did at the time, possibly a little force. As far as the referendum is concerned, it could also be said that, not only is it unnecessary, it probably has a similar omen as a member of the LDS, Mayor of the Municipality of Ptuj, Mr Čelan, said days ago that the questionability of this referendum is also in other areas. However, the handbook for the introduction of the referendum is set by the rules of procedure so that it can no longer be carried out in this mandate or the referendum cannot be carried out, and then the provincial legislation and all relevant sub-legislative acts can be adopted, as the mandate expires very quickly. However, when I review the programme of all political parties, I find that all, except the Slovenian National Party, have entered the priority of decentralisation, regional development and the introduction of landscapes. Depending on how we decide to vote tomorrow, how much you want to take into account your own programmes, which we have or which you have. I will support the proposal for a law establishing the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! Prekmurje or Pomurje as a statistical region is often the subject of debate among many of you, although only five of us come from the Pomurje statistical region. The debate is because Pomurje is, unfortunately, the case of the underdeveloped region or even the case of the lagging region. Let me just give you a few numbers for example. The gross domestic product per capita from 1995 to 2005 increased by only 53% in the Pomurje region and 88% in the most developed central Slovenia and was more than twice as big in 2005 than in the Pomur region. A different picture shows, assuming that growth will be the same as it has been in Pomurje in the last ten years, and that the growth of gross domestic product in the most developed region will be constant, so it will stagnate, then it takes Pomurje 34 years to reach the most developed region in Slovenia. Asking what to do. I no longer believe in any law on coherent regional development. Surely everyone has been well-intentioned, whatever government has already brought it to this Parliament, but there are no results. We have also made some additional efforts in tax legislation. There are also no results in the least developed regions. So what do you do? Surely it is one of the answers, perhaps not the only one, to apply the principle of subsidiarity consistently, which means that decisions and especially responsibility are passed on to the provinces and that we also establish the provinces. Maybe a few words to refresh your memory. Slovenia's independence as a country and the introduction of parliamentary democracy in 1991 also marked a new beginning for local self-government. On 1 January 1995, the relatively large 65 municipal municipalities, which operated most of their activities in state tasks, replaced 147 smaller municipalities, which left the performance of state tasks to administrative units, while taking over tasks that fall within the field of local self-government according to European standards. The results show that the reform of local self-government in the mid-90s has not produced the desired results. It is true that we have received the classical congregations of the European type, but these congregations are extremely tempted by their powers. Today we have a relatively weak local government and a strong unitary state in Slovenia. The problems of Slovenian local government are mainly reflected in the growing regional disparities, which are further increasing from year to year. In the development of other areas, about 70% of the Slovenian territory is formed. This way we have Ljubljana on one side with its surroundings, which is developing very quickly and which will be able to capture the most developed EU countries in a short time, and on the other hand we have the rest of Slovenia, which can no longer follow Ljubljana's development pace and thus is increasingly lagging behind for central Slovenia. This also leads to relocations or evictions from the least developed to the most developed regions. Experience shows that the unitary state is unable to reduce regional disparities despite the adoption of various strategies to reduce these differences. The gap between the state and the municipalities is too great to provide the municipalities with a more coherent regional development. Therefore, as a logical solution to the situation, the introduction of an intermediate level between municipalities and the country is offered, i.e. the introduction of provinces that are characteristic of the whole Western world. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has embarked on a very ambitious project on the introduction of the provinces. All praise goes to Minister Ivan Žagar. The fundamental questions that I am being asked at this time are: Will the provinces be able to decentralise the country? And second question: Will the provinces manage to reduce regional differences and give Slovenia a new development momentum? The questions raised above are still unlikely to be answered explicitly, especially because we do not know how the so-called human factor, i.e. the provincial officials, will function. The fact is that the wider units of local self-government, however we call them, the provinces, the regions, the provinces, the Counties, have become one of the leading forces of both European integration and decentralisation in the European Union in recent years. Slovenia does not need provinces because of pressure from the Union or because otherwise it would not be able to draw funds from European funds. Slovenia needs the provinces in order to manage the wider local and regional problems more easily. And let me finish with Pomour again. Regrettably, the Council of the Pomurian Development of the region failed to adopt any decisive decisions on the seats or seats, not to mention the name. There's something else about time. I am confident and I hope that the law establishing the provinces will be given a green light for the second reading, when the opportunity for further discussions, when we will most likely, at least by myself, make an amendment to the province, which will change the name and seat of the world of the province. I'm sure there's still some time to think clearly, especially for a sober conversation. It is true that time may be inconvenient, in the electoral year we are running out of rationality, irrationality is increasing, but I believe that in the National Assembly we are mature people who want this Slovenia's good and only with thorough, professional, not so much political talk, we will be able to come to the right solutions in terms of establishing the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues. If we have ever talked about historical moments, then let me also point out that this is a historical moment in the consideration of provincial law. The establishment of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia has never been and should never be just a matter of coalition. We have stressed all this through and I wish to stress this today. This is our joint project, the draft of the majority of Members of the National Assembly. If we have been, respected and respected, united at the time when we took the first step in this composition, let me also appeal to you this time to be as united as we were when we actually laid the groundwork for the beginning of the creation of the content of the provincial legislation when we changed the content of the three articles of the Constitution of Slovenia. At that time, we took the first step, the next step ahead of us today or tomorrow. Of course, even from tomorrow onwards, if we make such a united decision, the next steps are towards improving the content of the package of provincial legislation. No article of that part of the content of the province's legislation, which we have raised both in the coalition and in the opposition, is sealed; it gives everyone the opportunity to contribute to the improvement of the content of the article. And if we are now talking about the proposal for a law establishing the provinces, it is one of those laws that has open possibilities to complement the content of the individual articles of this bill. Let me speak to you first about the name. In the environment where I come from, people have not been so keen about whether the name of the province itself is important, even though it is not irrelevant. These are historical facts, and even one of the laws foresees what must be taken into account. Many people have expressed the desire that it is more important than the name of what is gained by changing this legislation. Also with regard to the number of provinces, respected and respected, those who point out here the number of provinces must be correct and fair, whether we have not agreed that we are based on the basic assumption and we are talking about 12 statistical regions which we have politically aligned with the addition of two other provinces. Today at this reading we are talking about 14 provinces. It would be pointless to go beyond that number, to go up, or to talk again about the fact that the number of 14 provinces is not the real number to go down. This will likely be reflected in the time and content of legislation regarding the establishment of municipalities. At first it was too small, we got to 210, maybe that's the right number now. Perhaps we all wanted to do so, and it is likely in the wake of social change that there will be a time for the so - called gathering of more congregations into one. Maybe. This is also the case with the consideration of provincial legislation. The time may come when we find out or when social change will dictate a substantive change in the number of provinces, and then the moment that some of you are expressing these concerns will be possible, whether the number 14 is real or not. As regards majority political support in the Republic of Slovenia. Here we must be united, and we must acknowledge that the majority of the legal, legitimately elected representatives of the people at lower levels of local self-government have expressed great majority support and given a positive opinion on the establishment of the provinces. Before us, honourable Members, there is now a moment of truth. Will we follow all these wishes and the needs of the people's representatives at a lower local level? Most, the vast majority, have expressed themselves positively. I don't think today's a good time to talk about the referendum. You know, even simple people know that now it is almost pointless to talk about the referendum on the establishment of the province, but we have already divided Slovenia into 14 provinces. And when we talk about the referendum, people ask themselves: Are we now talking about 14 referendums in the Republic of Slovenia? Someone from the eastern part of Slovenia cannot decide about the western part of Slovenia. And if we are speaking or if some of you are presenting a referendum, then you need to know that this should be decided by the 14 designated areas of one province. This probably makes no sense. What have we talked about many times? What do we want with the establishment of landscapes? By establishing the landscapes, we simply want to take a step and implement the so-called decentralisation. As long as we are here, we all remember the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We have often said that most important strategic matters are being decided in Belgrade. Then we gained independence and in Slovenia the Slovenian people shape their own destiny with a democratically elected representative of the people. Let us also be democratic this time and allow some of the important decisions that are now taking place in the centre of Ljubljana to be transferred to the next level of local self-government by establishing the provinces. In doing so, let me point out only a fraction of the mosaic of this unnecessary decentralisation. If this second level of local self-government had happened a little earlier, believe me, today many families in Haloza, from where I come from, would not have bothered to see if 210 households in this part of Slovenia would have received a public water supply in the second half of 2008. Unfortunately, these people are still waiting for the basic good, with the basic source of survival, it's drinking water from the public water supply. That I don't waste any time on road infrastructure and other infrastructure. What will happen if we do not get to the country as soon as possible? What will happen will also happen in the congregation or in the places from which I come. And I'm going to expose Halose again. Every year we find people moving out. The houses remain empty, the land grows. Even yesterday, such a good location for vineyards is grown today with bushes and high grass. Nevertheless, people will move where they realize that there is a better and cheaper life in a situation. And what these big city centres will do then, for example Ljubljana with a narrow environment, when it suddenly gets in big trouble, what some colleagues and colleagues have warned about in this basic infrastructure, from sewerage, from waste management, and so on. Here we will come into a great dilemma, how and what, because the population concentration will be gathered in larger centers, in urban centres, either in the center itself or in a narrower environment. Because, as I have come from a particular case, the Haloz people would rather move to a city where they will find that their survival is cheaper. And allow me to conclude. I am convinced that the package of provincial legislation, which we are considering today at first reading, can be upgraded, especially in those key content of individual laws, where we have warned both in the coalition and in the opposition that we have discussed so far. Here we must give all praise to all Members and Members, whether we come from one or another option, aware that this is our joint project, our joint task and the obligation we have received from our citizens and citizens through the 2004 mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to the Minister with his associates! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are kind of debating with coalition on the relationship who is in favour of regionalisation and who is against it. And this is a completely wrong discussion. Now those who disagree with exactly 14 provinces and what is proposed are against regionalisation. That's not true. We are also in favour of regionalisation. But what we have on the table and when we have it on the table. The Minister will conclude his full term, the Government has defined itself until regionalisation, there have been discussions and now, well six months before the elections, we are in a situation of taking exactly this or leaving it. And if you leave, you're against regionalization. This is completely wrong. Why? Through all the long debates that have been around regionalisation and are and are likely to be, and which are not only in this mandate, the profession has also been defined for these initiatives. And as for this particular case of 14 provinces, the profession has made it clear that it does not agree with such a large number and with such landscapes. That's perfectly clear. We in the Group of Members have indeed already presented our alternative proposal, which goes in the direction that the provinces are smaller, that they are larger, with greater competences. In addition to territorial circularity, the province must also have historical conditionality in addition to its size-related functionality. Let me tell you one example, when we discussed at a public meeting on the provinces, one of the students asked me interestingly and she said somehow, "Tell me, what are these landscapes? On TV, we hear that these are some amphibians, some names we've never heard of. Who am I going to identify myself with in this province?" I was like, "We're identifying ourselves with what we already are. This is historical conditionality." And we already have landscapes in our minds in Slovenia. We are the Primors, the Styrians are the Styrians, the Gorenjeks are the Gorenjeks, the Dolenci are the Dolenci. These are historical landscapes. And we're not suggesting anything but this. And so it is in the neighboring countries where we try to imitate ourselves. Also in Austria there are Styers Styrians, Korosci Korosci, Tirolci Tirolci and they have their own provinces or countries and so it is also in Germany, because we are always listening only to Germany and Austria in this Parliament, as if there were no other countries. But if we're listening to this, then you need to tell us what it's like out there. The Bavarians are Bavarians and so on and so forth. Our proposal is going this way. The provinces would be historically comparable, comparable to other provinces in other countries, and would also have powers and sizes where they could be partners. And what's the alternative? What we have on the table and you say, accept if you are not against regionalisation. We have one province called Notranjska, which is from Stirred to Ljubljana. We have Kamnik-Zavavsko: Domžale, Kamnik, Trbovlje, Zagorje, etc. We have the province of Sasha. What will be the identification of these people now? One will still be the Marines, and they'll be in the interior, some. They'll be Styrians, Sashas, etc. Why don't we simplify things and use what we have, which is already defined, which is also functionally more rounded, which could work better. Of course, even with the referendum, there is now a problem. The one who proposes a referendum, which we will decide at the next meeting, is against the provinces because it is stalling. You wrote that these are landscapes by people's will. Why don't you ask them? If we asked people about the Church, the municipality, and Hodoš, who have 300 inhabitants, why can't you ask the Primors, who are 300,000 or the Ljubljanaers, who are 300,000, what do they think? If we asked people whether we would bake bread in gas stations or in shops and bakerys, what would work on Sundays, we eventually did it by their will, as in the congregations, we should not ask them now. I really don't understand that. After all, we have only proposed a consultation referendum. Procedures can go hand in hand with the adoption of this legislation, and it is not true that we are stalling. But I really don't understand this form of democracy. Maritime is a very specific and special case because there have been strange designations because there is no element of Primorska anymore and because many also agree with a different division. Various surveys were therefore carried out. I've got two in front of me. One was published in Primorske novice, commissioned and carried out at the Scientific Research Centre of the University of Primorske. They want to name Primorska, in short, 87% disagree with this division and most are for a single Primorska. Then there was another survey, which was in the framework of the initiative that was developed, to name for Primorska, where even 80% for the single Primorska. And what's wrong with asking them and listening. You say this is now a political reality of fourteen provinces. Whose political reality? A couple of Februarys in slightly smaller places that managed to have a center. That's all this is about. This is not a political reality. And even when we're talking about content. We didn't even give waste dumps to the provinces. You left the municipalities, even though it's a classic regional problem. We are talking about regional landfills, but we have not incorporated them, for example, so that these regions or provinces can do so. And the congregations have to deal with it, with regional ones, and they're called regional ones. That's really weird. As far as funding is concerned. These provinces are heading in the direction of community funding. Almost all municipalities are now financed by the State, which means that it is a redistribution of funds. In the previous system, in the previous country - we recognize that we have made great progress - we have had a different communal system. This was based on the fact that the municipalities were self-sufficient and there was no redistribution by the State. Differences have more than doubled since then when we have a redistributive system when the state helps someone. We are going to the funding system that was in the Federation, Yugoslavia, when we invested in Kosovo - this is in the municipalities, and you are now proposing this for the provinces. And then there's the big splits. Go look, in northeastern Slovenia is the largest division into municipalities and are least developed. It's the other way around. Why do we choose paths that show bad results? Why don't we listen to the profession here and ask people for such important questions. And then why do we lie about someone stopping, which is nothing real? And where have you been so far so we can't open procedures that would give better results than this. I'm even afraid that someone will be in the future because if this doesn't go through, it's perfect for regionalisation, which is going to be very bad. However, I hope that there will be a lesson from all of this that we will, in the future, still reach the regions with which people will agree and which we will ask people not to share as it has done in the case of Primorska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today, the 35th meeting, last January, will just be recorded in the history of the opportunity of this national assembly and this government, whether we are capable enough to take a step forward or not. In Posavje we have had a province in the establishment for more than ten years and have been doing similar things together for ten years, mayors, municipalities, municipal councils, in the spirit of the province in which we believe and hope that the country will finally put it where we have dreamed of it for ten years and more, that we will also have the right province in Posavje. Hope dies last. I believe that this will happen in this mandate and that this meeting will be written down as when we vote tomorrow and press the keys, whether we are for the provinces in Slovenia or not. There's only two options: you're up for it or you're up against it. I think I have been monitoring this for 15 years, as mayor of the third term, as well as as as a citizen and a citizen. We are talking about this regionalisation actively at the time of all governments, such and different. A lot of advice, a lot of effort, a lot of tension, a lot of different articles, experts, "against" and three regions, and 32 of these, if you put them on a pile, there would definitely be a small truck for them. In the provinces, almost everyone already knows everything. I think we're so well-educated, for and those who doubt and those who are against and that in fact we can find out that we've done a little bit of doctoring here. Definitely. I hope, and I think, that Members of the National Assembly, who are finally sent to this House of Democracy from an environment such and different, and I think it is right that the opinions I hear from such and different backgrounds, regardless of political affiliation, should look at what is best for this Slovenia. During these two and a half years or even more, there have also been many speeches in this mandate with the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, with his team, with Members, municipalities, mayors, with regional development agencies, and I do not know who else, many discussions have been discussed. The goal was only to find a way to reach this consensus between the coalition, the opposition or how as many Members could support this legislation. A few weeks ago, I had the feeling that, somehow, most Members have this support to support this issue, even commend Minister Zhagar for his efforts, seeking compromises, consensus. For the last week, it's kind of a change, like a curtain fell: "Wait, wait, wait, wait. Watch out, it's election year. Yeah. Election results." Speculation. That surprises me. And that this doesn't always work out for the best in politics, and we all know it. When we accepted the change of constitution, I was kind of satisfied. "Finally," I said, we finally got this consensus in this term in the National Assembly, we have the green light, we are on our way." I participated in many of these discussions in spirit, in the belief that all of this is somehow well - prepared, qualityful, in listening to the voice of one congregation, the city congregation, the smallest congregation, the largest congregation, the voice of one region, the other region. And I have this feeling because I confirm it myself, because I have been, and, finally, I have this feeling in the assembly of Slovenian mayors and mayors, who have supported 99% of them unitedly that the time has finally come for us to finally accept this province for the benefit of Slovenia, let it be for the mayors of the municipalities or the smallest ones in Prekmurje. Today, there is this support, which I say several times today. Who's all that matters? I think that the congregations are also important for Members. Finally, the mayors there, the municipal saints, finally the State Council, also their opinion means something in this Slovenia. Does the Community of Slovenian municipalities, associations of Slovenian municipalities mean anything? Does this not mean anything to Members in their own decision? Whether it's some sort of non-digestion, the Member's autonomy is certainly, but the voice of the people, the voice of the officials, the voice of those from where you come from, and we should also respect something, perhaps some boss thinks a little differently than you think with your head. But this will show time, today's debates, and tomorrow's decisions, whether this is true or not. My belief is that we have never been so close to this decision in these 12 years. So close and so far away. I believe that we are close, that we can adopt these matters and this legislation. I believe and I am sure that this general debate would receive a positive step. In the second reading, I believe that certain concerns you have in the area of financing, I believe that at the moment it is not important or the number of provinces, not the name of the province, not the seat. This is the second, third-rate chapter. It's important to get the country, and then the steps will be taken differently. But I think that all these comments, and also what the Prime Minister of the Government has already announced, also, in terms of the revenues of the original provinces, all of this is possible to continue to correct and coordinate and get the consensus that some do not already have, convinced that this is the best model of financing for future provinces, which, in my opinion, is one of the main and most important: the transfer of responsibilities and finance to the provinces. That is true, and I follow those who say that this is a very important question. Why the provinces in Slovenia? We've been doing this for a while. I think the differences we have today, but believe me, not just the information that speaks about this clearly and loudly, especially what we experience when we live in such and different congregations, what are the differences between central Slovenia, between Prekmurje, White Krajina, Koroška, and if you want Posavjem. It's huge, it's enormous. We are all citizens of this same republic. And prices that reach somewhere in Ljubljana or somewhere in Gorički or Prekmurje are extremely high in the price of apartments, at the price of some other services, land and so on. The price of electricity, telephone services, bread and milk is the same. This is discrimination between one and the other citizens. We all have the right to pay the same taxes in the same cash register, those who live in central Slovenia, as do those who live in Prekmurje. We are still talking about decentralisation in this mandate, all Members, not just one, all, we want decentralisation, centralism is not a good thing, we want it, we want it. But these words remain more on paper or in Parliament when we leave this Chamber, let us forget that this is absolutely necessary. I know and I am sure that we cannot all live in central Ljubljana. The brain drain from certain regions, White landscape, if you want Posavje, Koroška v Ljubljana is bigger from year to year. This is not good, this is bad for Slovenia, this is bad for Slovenian municipalities, this is bad for Slovenian regions, which we have 12 statistical, still. And we cannot stop this system from all the measures we have, including the local community, from scholarships and, I don't know what else, you can't stop it because the conditions, opportunities and everything that a young person draws are significantly better at the heart of Slovenia in Ljubljana, as in Koroška, in the White landscape and elsewhere. And that's not good for Slovenia. And also with the provinces, we can certainly stop part of this outflow from staying part of these capable, educated personnel in the municipalities, in regions where there could be similar conditions. The differences are still increasing. That's sad. Differences between each other are increasing. The data speak and tell how it has progressed over the last 10 years, Ljubljana and how much, I don't know, Zasavska, Koroška, Prekmurska krajina. Is that right, fair, good? It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not right for all of these citizens who live there, who are still there, although there are, unfortunately, fewer young people every year. You say that the new Slovenian congregations were a mistake, that it was a failure, that they were wrong decisions. No, it's not the wrong decision. The Slovenian municipalities, including the smallest ones, have taken a major development step in a positive direction. No Slovenian congregation has yet joined a larger congregation, but with their development they have made a great move forward in a positive direction. And last but not least, in the area of financing Slovenian municipalities, this government and Parliament have taken a major step forward in a more fair and, above all, a solidarity way for smaller municipalities, with poor conditions, both economic, wages, income and so on, to survive or live better. This is an incentive that this government has made. And from this town, thank you all. However, I am convinced that those of the provinces that are plentiful in the back and that they have really great developmental problems that are far behind those who are more developed, believe me, they also want this progress and development. I would like the city, such as Ljubljana, and other large cities to develop and work on, but with this also the countryside, which is a large part of this Slovenia, must move on. They cannot be increasingly different, but we must give conditions to one and to the other for a balanced, more consistent development of Slovenia. Number 14. I'm sure every single one of us, especially the minister, would reduce the number. This was a week ago, 14 days ago, the political reality of the National Assembly and this policy. It did not go to 12 or 10, because simply some MPs to the mayors and certain environments made this conditional. Finally part of our opposition: "Lords, you will give this to us and we will talk." The government has done so, and we are now looking for some reasons that have not been the subject of negotiations, coordination and consensus-seeking at all. There's a limit somewhere, whether it's 9, 14, or 16. This time the case stopped at 14. In my opinion, this is some sort of thing that's about right. Every mayor of the Slovenian municipality and every municipal councilman, every normal administration wants faster development. That is why he was appointed, leading the congregation’s administration in charge of his congregation and his desire for the best in the environment. In order to achieve this, however, it needs certain powers, it needs money, it needs a cadre, a team, young potential experts who unfortunately do not have them today, because most of them live and work outside their congregations, outside their regions in better-paid, better living conditions than I have said before, which are not in these small congregations. And for this better environment, for better service, faster services, better services, etc., would certainly also contribute and enable our citizens, who also expect our mayors today, and unfortunately for certain services they still have to go to other centres or Ljubljana, etc. Today, as we have already said, the indices are large. The data we have received by the Government has a risk index of 37 and the municipality of Kuzma of 160. The difference is enormous between two congregations, between two cities. And these things just have to be reduced. I think it's a truly historic opportunity. A historic opportunity for certain corrections, with certain consensuss, both those such as coalitions, governments, to get closer to each other and find a common point. We say yes, but this would also be acceptable to the opposition or at least to some part of the opposition for the future of regionalisation or landscape history in Slovenia. I will hope, I still believe, and that the Members will make their decision. Finally, before taking responsibility, before deciding when it will be necessary to press the correct key tomorrow, and say yes, I support the organisation under these and these conditions, then surely a set of these corrections will follow, if we want to take a second reading, and then finally adopt this legislation. However, I see no serious reason in this general treatment that we should not leave the matter here in a different treatment. I can't see. If we are, and when I hear some members of the opposition, yes, we also support the organisation and the provinces, but it is today that we will probably not be able to meet it today, but in the second reading we will have to if we want to adopt legislation. [[...]] I think it's a logical path. If this road is not right, correct me, colleagues and colleagues, in this National Assembly, which has a longer kilometre than I have. But I believe, in this case, that these incentives for coherent regional development, which we have full mouth from whatever environment we come from, will be tried in this story. The setting up of the provinces is now an appropriate time. I'm really afraid if the National Assembly doesn't get him through this term, then maybe he won't be for a long time, even for such and other reasons. If the cards get mixed up, however they may be, some of the resentments of this project will certainly remain, then many citizens and those citizens of certain congregations, who do not yet have an asphalt road or a water supply or these things, will still be waiting for these things, and the region or the province will also get closer to them. Some have been on good roads for 30 or more years, but some of them, of course, have not. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, for today's debate is another day and by this afternoon, think carefully and do whatever is necessary for better, friendly and more coherent regional arrangements in Slovenia. Thank Minister Zhagar for the well-done work he finds hard to see, not even those of the opposition. I am optimistic, the hope dies last, and some sense tells me that we will also adopt this provincial legislation in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. I think that we have been united for a long time, that the differences in Slovenia between different regions are too great, that these differences are increasing and that the landscapes are one of those very good opportunities for these differences to begin to decline gradually. That is why the National Assembly, when adopting changes to the Constitution that enable the establishment of the provinces, has given many hopes and expectations to many of those citizens and citizens living in the areas where these great differences are most felt. Only the opinion of a large number of municipalities supporting this package of legislation gives rise to additional hope. But we are here today to take a new step, to make further progress in this process of adopting this legislation and, of course, then to make it possible to reduce these differences. However, in view of the presentations made by individual parliamentary groups and some Members, I am somewhat concerned. Your Honor! In a few days it will be desolate, but it seems to me that some people here in this National Assembly already wear masks, many different, behind which the face is hidden, saying that they are not sincere about the decentralisation of Slovenia, that they are not to offer better opportunities to those areas in Slovenia that are less developed. I'm surprised how some people find a hundred and I don't know how many excuses they are, such or otherwise, that they are for the provinces, but that there are some concerns, some reasons why they wouldn't do it or adopt this package of legislation. One of them is the referendum. As already mentioned here today, is it right for the Styrians to decide what Primorska will be like? Marines have their own opinions, the Styrians will take care of themselves. It's not right for someone else to decide. Second of all, what seems to be at issue with this referendum. Someone who disagrees with the fact that he's going to be sitting in his province in this and this place, he's going to say, "I'm not up for it.".. In doing so, he gave a negative vote for his province and for all others 13. That's not right. It's the same if you disagree with the area. And then he'll say, "No!".. But not for all of Slovenia. And also about the number. If he doesn't agree that the number of provinces is 14, he'll just say no. But he's going to say the number not because of 14 landscapes, but it's not going to be for the whole package of this landscape legislation. Those who enjoy the advantages of centralised Slovenia today, those who have better opportunities for better services, have better transport connections, which have virtually everything at hand, of course they will not just throw themselves away without knowing where to change their situation. That's why I don't think a referendum like this would take a real picture, bring a distorted picture. That such a referendum is essentially designed to be a negative decision. And that is well known by those who advocate such a referendum. Good, because analysts and the committee's strategies have calculated this, and this is what they have foreseen, and that is why, of course, some advocate it as well. Therefore, I am convinced that those who want or set certain conditions for the referendum are not to decentralize that they have actually followed this process with some fig in their pocket. And what they're saying just doesn't hold. I will, of course, support the further procedure for this legislation. I will save myself the result of the vote as well as the magnetograms - but they may be needed sometime.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Horvat Ferry has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister who is somewhere near a co-worker and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going back to history because it won't bring us much, even though it would be a lot of things. But I would mention this, and I would not want to be emotional, but as rational as possible in the debate that I was alone with colleagues who were in the first term when we first decided on the congregations, a strong advocate that we would have started by bringing together the congregations. And there was a project that was drafted by a district law that was not passed. I will not go down for reasons and then the story was repeated and despite the initiatives there was not enough willingness, regrettably, even among those who were or were your predecessors here who were the most passionate advocates of the proposal that laws and landscapes should be adopted as soon as possible. Personally, I am in favour of not stopping the process of adopting legislation and implementing the project, but the essential question is, not why we are in favour or against, but how, what to do to get out of this situation. I'll finally allow myself to make some suggestions. In the case of the draft law itself, which is the subject of discussion, I will limit myself to just a few points and in particular refer this to the province from which I come, to the province near Mura, and some views or most of them are very similar to those already expressed by colleague Jože Horvat. For the first time, when it comes to numbers as an economist, it would also be based on the opinions of the profession and also on its own opinion more for a smaller number, 6 or 8. But there was so much debate and it turned out that this is not acceptable and that this so-called political compromise is 12 such as statistical regions, plus two that it is a reality. And if that's the price and condition of going to the provinces at all, then that's acceptable to me, and I wouldn't lose a lot of words about it. However, we should not allow the number to increase further. The proposals keep coming. Because this would lose the sense of the landscape, the critical mass, which is a condition for their role primarily in the development of the economy, and would become a situation or a matter of irrational. Second, names. Here, perhaps, the government itself, perhaps reluctant to listen to a variety of comments, came with new proposals and thus sparked new discussions and new dissatisfactions and new proposals. There's too much debate about it. The case of Pomurje. Before that, the Pomurje proposal was the name of the statistical region, the name which is established, more or less, for all accepted, with some exceptions. But then, with the lobbying of Ljutomer and the surrounding area, which is actually Prlekija, there was a change. And this has led to a lot of comments today, a lot of debate in Pomurje also about this, not so much in Prekmurje, but also on the right bank of Mure, because the fact is that a large part of the municipalities in the administrative unit of Radgon, Radenci, the Apache Cauldron as a whole or the Apache municipality, are not Preleks, not geographically, not historically and are not considered to be Prleke and are simply against it. And if we wanted the consistent ones, we would have to list all the individual places or areas in order to capture everything. Therefore, it is most rational to remain on the original name. There are many or most names of landscapes or regions in Europe by river or river, and this covers everything. But there is a possibility of subservience, and I am inclined by the sub-breeding also for substantive reasons to be connected in the projects, and this also happens in Pomurje, that Prlekija, that the Slovenian Gorica are, that in Prekmurje there can be a sub-breedy of Goričko, because Prekmurje is not homogeneous and so on. Third time, seat. I am not in favour of sharing seats, the world somewhere, the administration elsewhere, this proposal is also for Pomurje and the result is not only dissatisfaction and criticism, but proposals from individual municipalities. They are all inflation to be distributed by municipalities as well as other matters. I am not saying that some regional institutions, that they must all be at the provincial centre, may also be dislocated, as is this discussion in Slovenia, but that the administration and this world share in two locations, and then this brings other consequences, it is pointless. And another concrete comment I am getting from the ground is the proposal that the President's election should be direct, which would give the president greater legitimacy and greater democracy. And something else on the subject of coherent regional development and the argument that the landscapes are a condition for this. I, too, have always and continue to justify that one of the important conditions for more efficient development is regions or landscapes, but this is not a sufficient condition, this is not the only condition. Only if we introduce the provinces and do not provide funding and also some other matters, then this effect, colleagues and colleagues, will not, if you believe it or not. In addition to providing more original resources, what I am pleased to say last night was announced by the President of the Government and also by the Finance Minister, too little concretely, this will have to be developed, and the state cannot, in the future when the provinces are set up, remove its responsibilities for coherent regional development. Countries that are much more developed than Slovenia give a strong emphasis at all levels to regional, regional and national levels to regional policies, including the European Union. It is no coincidence that the European Union, including in recent European Commission documents, in the Lisbon Strategy documents, with the exception of European institutions and countries, also refers to the Council of the Regions and to the Committee of the Social Partners. And let me finish with the proposal. I propose three things to get out of this situation. First, the vote should be postponed tomorrow. I understand that this possibility was also indicated at yesterday's meeting. Secondly, in view of today's debate on all these laws and in view of the comments made so far, in the light of the comments made in the debate and other proposals, the Government or the competent authority, the Minister and his team, in cooperation with other ministers - which is very important, in particular with the financial minister, the Minister covering the administration and others - to draw up new compromise proposals on some key or, under the terms, "controversial" issues. Indeed, solutions need to be sought, which would constitute a compromise that would satisfy everything and also ensure the effective functioning of the regions, where funding and development are particularly important. And on the basis of this proposal, I propose that the President of the Government then convene a meeting of the presidents of all parliamentary parties and of the presidents or leaders of parliamentary groups to try to reach a compromise or agreement at this meeting through an open debate. And if this agreement is to be reached, then I do not see the problem that the process would not proceed relatively quickly with the second treatment of all laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the realization that all opposition Members are not buried in ditches, of which only "no" would reflect is, of course, something that encourages. That's how I understood the last speaker, and I think it's also the right thing to leave opportunities for further talks and not perform so ultimately, just with "I" or "No". We still have options, which we all repeat in order and at all times, to complement, we just have to keep the procedure open, otherwise we have finished things. And if there is enough readiness for further talks, then even today's 16 hours, it is foretold, the long debate will not go to nothing. Then maybe this is some process that we have to test on ourselves to finally achieve a result that might at least satisfy us in the vast majority. Otherwise, what would happen if we stopped. Will the new proposer be able to provide sufficient support in Slovenia for 6 or 8 provinces to ensure that all seats are in one place? I doubt that because it has actually become, it has not been, and now it is a political reality that people in Slovenia expect. And what will those of those 6 or 8 provinces, for example, say, expect, and then they won't be? Such a process would take a lot of will, a lot of effort, a lot of trouble, and I'm not sure any good, positive result is guaranteed. Even later, even in the following year, the next term, unless legislation is amended in the meantime, will need to be supported by two-thirds of them, and such lifting of the current political reality is unlikely to succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today's provincial legislation is in fact nothing more than an attempt to break the Republic of Slovenia into smaller units, so it will be easier to reach foreign capital, which is already tightening claws across Slovenia. In Europe, the landscapes are large enough to cover about a million people. All Slovenia has two million inhabitants. All Slovenia has two million inhabitants, and we want to break it to 14 provinces. At 14 non-life segments, which we would not then have, against a stranger, no more power. Interestingly, even the bishop is only 6 in the Republic of Slovenia. We create 14 landscapes. Never in history has Slovenia been so divided, nor has it been during the Imperial-Kingdom Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Europe is, of course, preparing and looking forward to this option, because, at a number of ends, the mayors had already negotiated with neighbouring provinces in the previous mandates of the previous governments on the establishment of some common provinces. It was so urgent that something similar would happen in Koroška as well as in Goriška. I'm not talking about Goriška as a province, I'm talking about the area around Nova Gorica. There the mayors, former mayors of the previous term, and in the previous mandate of the government, have, of course, already been preparing some Euroregions with the Italian and Austrian sides. Of course, they forgot that in this case, when it was over time that it was necessary for the official language to use the language that would, of course, reflect the majority population, they would, of course, choose the Italian language in Gorica in a democratic vote and, of course, German in our country in Koroška. That's when it fell into the water. Although this action has been highly concealed, we have revealed it in the Slovenian National Party and perhaps our intervention has also meant one bit that the matter has not been accepted. I think that this legislation is completely incomplete, completely pointless and without tails and heads. After all, there would be 14 governors in these provinces, otherwise I can't say, because these governors would have in their hands and scissors and canvas - complete authority on many segments of our lives. In these many segments, they would determine what they would think. And if anyone wanted to complain about what they did - who could he complain to? Exactly the same governor, and this governor would have decided that he was doing the right thing himself. There's no higher court. The Ministry here is not in a number of segments. This is what Dr. Tone Jerovšek, but many times the gentlemen refused to listen to him. They refused to listen to him when he expounded this legislation and warned of the transfer of original powers to these provinces. I can't tell them the province, these are governors, because in the end this division is even closer to being divided into the districts of 1954 and 1956 in the former Yugoslavia. And in time, they discovered that this division was bad, that it increased bureaucracy and bureaucracy, and did not bring good to the population, and they abolished the districts. Now, however, the current Government wants to carry out this matter, which Dr Bohinc has actually started in the previous term, and I think that the current Government has inherited from the previous gentlemen, who have made it easy for them, as they say, as they would say, to "pull" this rotten egg, which is now being rolled forward. The fact is, those circuits that were then turned out to be lifeless. The only thing that was good was good for the political officials who got their seats and great synergy until their retirement. Even today, large political parties have a whole range of deserving personnel to be placed somewhere, to be given a place, a place to earn, and then a good pension. But no one wonders where the money is for these so many and so many thousands of new jobs that will not produce anything that will just take. Is it possible that the entry or arrival of foreign capital, which will give these governors a certain amount of money, is no longer counted here, so that they can carry out all of this? Of course, some will get richer, some will be even poorer. That's the kind of thing we have to be against. And this is our basic task to be against it. In addition, if we look at what these divisions of powers are within each province. Let's take Koroška. Something like what happened in Koroška is unprovable. Half the administration will be in Slovenj Gradec, half the administration will be in Ravna, Koroškem. This, of course, is due to political preferences and I understand that colleague Friday will be "printing" for the Plains to get at least half, but I think it's pointless, inanimate, inorganic, in short, not drinking water. It's a strange compromise. This is a "scroll" of legislation that is supposed to be adopted just to be adopted. Who's in charge? Europe knows the provinces up to about a million people. Why don't we go to two provinces in Slovenia and make one rural landscape and one urban landscape. At least this way we'll get some more money, more than that. And now we're nothing. We will be "fucked" just as long and wide as we are, in fact, being "stressed" all the time with the help of some of our former and current politicians. I don't think we can agree to such a division, by no means, we can't agree to this legislation, this legislation is bad. If we really want our country's good, then let's not take it on the nose, let's not take it in such a form, because three years ago the provincial legislation was another balloon in the air, today it's here on the ground and we have to accept it most quickly and with all force. I don't think that's good. We just couldn't have imagined anything worse. And I also think that when people think about it, they see that it's bad, and that's why the support for provincial legislation is falling, so it falls at the municipal level and not only at the level of the population, but also at the level of municipal officials, because they're starting to see that there's definitely nothing good about it. I think that decentralisation is something other than the fragmentation of the state into the Praetorians. Decentralisation tends to push for balanced development throughout the country, and we strive to break it all down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u51	Excuse me. Mr. Zagorac has a word because he speaks instead of the Seal. Excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What exactly are we all doing here today in this debate? We are all working together, or you are trying to make sure that what is ahead of us is good, and I believe that it is good for some members of the coalition, for most members of the opposition, and for you, too, Minister, you probably know somewhere deep down that this is far from being good. We could do better, even if we go to the number of regions, it could be done differently. When you were talking about how the government was ready to talk, I agree, we talked twice, I think, but then we were faced with the fact, we can talk about 14 landscapes, we can't talk about 6, 8, 3ths, we can talk about 14ths. If you consider this to be a dialogue or a compromise, I understand it somehow differently. The fact is that the political promise of this government has been made that something else will have to happen under the word of decentralisation, because the municipalities no longer have a place to crush, but forcefully, I will say, the provincialisation of one such thing that we will enforce, even if it is necessary, regardless of the fact that these provinces you are proposing do not have undefined tasks, not clearly defined sources of funding - nothing. I am coming alone, I will say, I was surprised by this graph, see, the number of years in which individual regions of GDP would reach the Ljubljana region. She's been premeditated in 34 years and Styria in 16 years. What does this mean that the Government of Ljubljana has taken money from the budget? Because now we are going to be central Slovenia, I will say that I will ignore so long that everyone else will catch up with the Ljubljana Region. Under decentralisation alone, I understand the equitable development of the regions, but not that we will now try to avoid such graphs because I think it is completely unnecessary. I think it would make more sense to graph how many people in each region are in favour of having the region as you proposed. That would be interesting. This graph would be very interesting. And not just the mayor's opinions. County function is a political function. All the mayors will say this, most of them coming from the government types, which the government will say. People need to be asked. I don't know if I can just go back to the referendum for a second. I don't see any fear. The will of the people and the referendum is the highest form of democracy in every democratic country. And if you're sure you're doing as well as you'll convince us today for five hours, I don't see fear and fear of the referendum. I think that this referendum should be unanimously supported by 90 Members if everything is really so good if the regions are so well set up, if there are no problems and no questions in these regions, at least not for representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I see neither fear nor fear. But it is true that I may also go to a different level, and I will say that in 14 regions it is so many regional saints, so many regional chiefs, so much regional bureaucracy, so many computers, so many mobile phones, and there is probably a service car, because the region will probably be one degree higher than the congregation. And what we provide to the congregation will the region want to have as many as two, but the financial resources will be taken from where? Who's gonna guarantee that? People who will live in these, in your opinion, regions that will develop abnormally quickly. Yeah, we'll take them! We're taking these people, and that's sad! Less regions, less red tape, less money needed. More regions, more bureaucracy, that's the simple logic that every citizen can overcome, and even though, unfortunately, no one else is the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I will start with a rhetorical question: Is it really a general opinion, is it really the opinion of citizens and citizens that is so much more inclined, so very positive about the establishment of the landscapes that we today want to prove, to be shown, and to be argued with us all the time by the coalitions and Members who support the establishment of the provinces? We have heard many of these words today, and in our Group of Members we also wanted to check it out. That is why we have proposed asking citizens and citizens about this. We proposed a referendum, which you, a respected coalition, rejected on Monday. You believed that it was enough to agree with this and that it was confirmed in most municipal councils, mayors, communities of municipalities, indirectly elected state councilors in the State Council, various political parties, political nomenclature. Why and where is the fear of asking citizens if you are so firmly convinced that the general climate is so much in favour of establishing landscapes? And last but not least, there are many concerns among them. If I'm just reading the press, what it looked like to talk to the President of the Government, but there's been a lot of criticisms and concerns. That the mayor of Kamnika, Mr Smolnikar, had spoken to Mayor Drolc of the Command that Mr Stušek of Gorenjska had made a statement on behalf of the eight mayors, that Mr Marjan Polšak of Ajdovščina, Ljubljana's Deputy Mayor of Moederndorfer and so on, expressed his concerns. But that cancels, forget it. It's only about this, and it shows how much support this is actually. Last but not least, the Community opinion of the municipalities was only written on paper with the Community Head of the municipalities, and the following should be read in small print, where it says, "This is my personal opinion, President Franz Kangler". And not to use and not to use all means, for in these days it is really difficult to live as a Member or a Member, what is on our shoulders about this issue. I would like to say that the legislation has been prepared for a long time, we have talked a lot about it, but this time it has proved that such a matter can bring a bad product. I am convinced that throughout this path, when this legislation was born, it is due to a number of compromises, but mainly because of the political orientation to make a law that everyone likes, but that it is trying to meet everyone and all the interests that have been created, that what has been said today has been a bad product, a matter of marriage, full of nonsense, full of irreprehensibility, full of these results of various purchases. But that's not enough. We also receive the answer that this will be upgraded and changed, as is the case with municipal legislation. And those of us who put this experience through 1995 when we put all this calvary of community establishment through, we know what that means. We know that this means years and years of controversy, and the debates were said by President Janša, that perhaps then the provinces are talking about their own headquarters and so on. [[...]] Yeah, well, what's that-- built-in conflict! The built-in conflict that you are still causing, of course, will also be very easy if the provinces have to deal primarily with themselves in this way. But that will not be possible, because there are such important things as regional hospitals, such as all regional roads such as secondary schools, between the authorities. Will all of these be able to observe how these political games will take place at the provincial level because of such a'shampass' of legislation that allows and has so many open issues, the inconvenient things that after some negotiation, 'pass care to another', if I say so, or let all of this, worry and problems remain open, of course, this pattern cannot be supported by me. There's not much talk about costs. Costs aren't exactly dark. There's talk that it's supposed to be the same thing. But where does money come from for all the material costs of these landscapes, for all five hundred and a few officials, for all the things that will have to run? What does that mean in the end? If it's for these same people, it means that less money is actually going to be left for development projects and investments. And here the question is whether, as has been said, it will not be God's kingdom, but there will be a paradise on Earth for bureaucracy, for a political nomenclature that will find its new sandbox there and, of course, new players can come to this field and also get into the hands of new toys. I must say that today we have also had one distinct data manipulation and then the interpretation prepared by my colleague Pukšič at the level of one such evening school of rapid economics: GDP is jobs and if there is more GDP, there are also higher wages. And we have heard today that it is obvious that the wage ratio in Slovenia should also be based on this, that really here in central Slovenia honey and milk flow. People obviously don't have here, not those people with 300 euros in pension, but 400 euros in salary, they're just somewhere else! And it's a delusion and it's not a fair attitude to things! Slovenia has very high economic growth. It also has high GDP in general. But I don't know if we can convince people today that they also have a lot in their pockets. And we talked about this a lot in inflation. And I must say that, of course, central Slovenia is not as developed as you speak. If not, we would not send premature newborns to Maribor without a single nursing bed and we have 6,400 requests in the homes of pensioners. In short, this and this demagogy is not fair and it's not the right basis for you to convince us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Now, as far as experience and calvary are concerned, as mayor, of course I can share it with Madam Member of the time. And, of course, these experiences were also largely embedded in the preparation of this legislation in all professional work. This is because we are talking about local self-government, even though we are talking about the second level of local self-government. And since some data were already mentioned at the end, some of the needs within the most developed region were also mentioned. I agree with this, and I am sure that if we have the provinces, we will have an additional level of responsibility, or at this level, in central Slovenia, but will focus on this, not on some other issues. And as far as this information is concerned. These data aren't any deceiving, but it's a naked fact. This information is a naked fact. But all those who deal with this in one way or another in practice can feel it. As far as I'm concerned, let's say, employment and all that. For comparable jobs, wages are also different and are generally different in the way shown. Of course, the different rates of VAT, which is a fact, and these trends are also worrying, despite the fact that we have made a number of efforts in this government too. However, if we really want to take a step forward, it is necessary to establish the provinces. I think that virtually everyone in Slovenia agrees with this, both the professional public and the political part of the public, not least when we went to change the constitution. Otherwise, it is likely that we would not go into a constitutional change and that we could also discuss referendums or the need for regionalisation. But this category is written in the constitution. The provinces are enshrined in the constitution, and the methods of obtaining opinions are also enshrined in the constitution. As far as legislation is concerned, I would like to repeat once again, if you allow it to be drawn up in two parts: the substantive part, of course, also in this case, belongs to this law, which we will deal with later today, but it was necessary to draw up that basic legislation in this regard. And the coordination and preparation of this legislation is not tomorrow, but it has been going on for at least 2 years. However, as regards the preparation of professional bases in this area, many of the professional bases have been prepared, including experts, but we did not go in this mandate after the constitutions were amended to rediscover what experts have already discovered before us. So that the profession didn't cooperate, I can't agree under any circumstances. We have about 2,500 pages of these professional materials published on our websites. We did not reproduce them, but we can possibly do that for all of them. So the profession was certainly involved. And when we talk about salvations, these solutions of the profession weren't the only ones. With regard to this basic package of legislation and the question of the concept, I would point out that in the first three laws, which basically contain the concept, we have previously coordinated these three laws in all the parliamentary groups. And I think that at least one of the biggest - then I think even the LDS was in one room, there were not as many sent groups as there are today - we have come to this extent of agreement. We have also corrected, based on the initial proposal, of course on feedback, that legislation, but we have come to this view, and I think it was uniform, also in my conduct, published in the media, that the legislation is suitable for further consideration, and only then did we confirm this legislation in the Government. That's why they're late. Now if someone's explaining that there's been speculation that we're going to adopt all the other legislation first, and then we came up with this last law, which requires a two-thirds majority, then we could have done it, and we didn't. It wasn't done. A huge effort has been made at various levels to harmonise this legislation. For two years we have worked intensively on this - and our service also to the Government, because a large part of the legislation that is prepared, in particular this substantive part, this law on the transfer of power, exceeds the capacity of our service. Therefore, if it was suitable for further consideration at the time, the concept was suitable for further consideration. And also later, when the amendments were tabled, the comments are likely to follow from the amendments tabled and from which specific comments should follow. And some of these amendments have already been taken into account, but the work of these amendments has not been voted on precisely from this heading, so that, in terms of financing and finding these better solutions, we can, in particular, also in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision, although I must say that we have already taken it into account, at least we are assessing it, but it is probably still possible to take a step forward. Of course, this can also be improved in this segment and these articles are open. And then, of course, there is the possibility of taking the debate forward and we are also offering a hand, but we are very difficult to talk about, at least as far as our job is concerned, we have been available all the time and we have also tried to get in touch if we do not have an accomplice, and things need to be made more concrete. However, I cannot agree with the thesis, although of course it is perfectly clear, and I do not expect, especially regardless of the time, I also admit something that I do not know how well-made things are, only I think that the legislation has been properly prepared. We have been stressing all the time that it can still be complemented, and I also argue that it is not such that it is final. Finally, things are changing all the time, so we are open, but we cannot agree to any flat-rate claims. We need concrete proposals so that we can also evaluate them and that we can face arguments on the basis of even, if you want, numbers. And I hope and appeal to this time to receive amendments to these things. And, as I understand it, offers actually come from all sides. And then I hardly see that it would not be possible to close these things through some normal debate. As for this law, which we are now talking about, this part is, of course, covered with the expertise I have already talked about. And let's face it, if you look at these materials, you can figure out that the profession is not uniform. Even on this issue, because, as far as the concept of landscapes is concerned, it is also a matter of deciding which concept is taken. And through all the discussions that have taken place, the concept has been taken over, which has now also resulted in the political reality or the political reality of the Minister, the political reality of the past mandates, and all the agreements that have now been reached - a concept that ends somewhere in fourteen provinces, with the fact that it has been offered all along our side that it is possible to reduce this number with some consensus. And this concept is different from the three, probably, or two, and it's different from the fifteen, because it's not the fifteenth province, but it's already twenty-five or more there, and also from the debate of the different debaters it's followed that they fall from one concept to another. And in this part is the substantive part covered by this concept of these landscapes. And once again, different solutions also have their advantages and their weaknesses. As far as the European model is concerned, this concept is, of course, comparable to the statistical development regions we have, which were also the starting point, and with the concept of the division of Europe at the level of NGC3 of the regions involved, not at the level of NGC2 of the regions. And we cannot compare these provinces with the countries of Austria, with the countries of Germany, with the countries of Italy, but we could compare them with the lower organizational forms that these countries have. Of course, it is never possible to replicate directly one model from one country to another, because it has its own specifications, just as a country has these specifics. With regard to the drafting of this legislation, I must also point out this: amendments were tabled in this mandate, in this National Assembly, when we considered the Harmonised Regional Development Act, by the position to increase the statistical development regions from 12 to 14. Let us look at the discussions that were here at the time in connection with the coming provinces. That was loudly said at the time. And in this mandate, in this National Assembly, individual Members from various parliamentary groups have introduced a law establishing the SASH. And another 14 days or three weeks ago, there was an MEP from Zares who said that 14 were too many, and at the same time their Member was defending the establishment of the Savini-Shalean region. He probably explained it in that environment, in Velenj. And then it's very difficult to prepare solutions, but if the same people - and that's responsible people, I do appreciate them - are proposing diametrically opposite solutions for the same topic. We're in a tough spot about this part. In addition, as regards proposals and solutions and ideas coming from the ground, I must stress that we have tried to take them into account as much as possible. This means, in fact, identifying a particular environment after that with provincial legislation alone, of course, within certain frameworks. However, it is impossible to take into account solutions in cases where we have diametric opposite positions. Especially if, for example, one future province wants to regulate the relationship in another future province, especially in matters of diverse links. With regard to support for this project, it is very clearly written down and you have written this down all together when you confirmed the change in the constitution that the municipalities were those who previously co-sponsored even, and now those municipalities that give opinions - not mayors, but municipalities - are the municipal authorities. So, mayors, along with the municipal councils, probably. And I'm sure and I can't imagine that it could happen that the municipal councils or mayors in individual environments would propose a different solution to their people's wishes, and even less I can imagine that in some community environment they would propose different solutions to the representation of their citizens than they would later be in the province's council. The problems are where we have different solutions, but I estimate that through the process that has been going on, even through this two-time acquisition of opinions, we have cleared up those open issues. I agree that the open issues in the Kamnik-Sava region, including probably in Notranjska in connection with central Slovenia, are open, but I also assess and the interviews that take place in individual environments go in the direction that these issues can also be closed. And this bill is not closed at the moment, this law is completely open. This law has just entered into the legislative process. A general debate is being held today. Until the next reading, when things are taken seriously, it is possible to fix things with amendments. Even if you look at the opinions, if you look at them, there are not so many comments. And even on Friday when the mayors were present, most mayors welcomed this legislation. With the knowledge of course, even those who have mentioned the comments, with the knowledge that these are the things that are present and that they need to be cleaned. It's not real. By recognizing that there will always be a need for a two-thirds majority. It is not realistic that anyone will find a solution that will be 100% written on the skin to all inhabitants and residents of Slovenia and will be 100% written on the skin, if not to all people, but to all municipalities. Such solutions, if you will excuse me, you will probably not bring them; but if you do, bring them! And please bring them to us, put them on the table! There's no reason. I don't know why we wouldn't consider better solutions as a lawmaker. We've been trying to follow them all along! What could be the reason? Tell me. I don't see him! I don't know what's hidden somewhere that we wouldn't want to take into account, but if it's better than what we've prepared. However, these things must, of course, be clarified in the procedures under way. However, it was not possible to register the first day of these procedures of all the problems, all the issues that arise. And it is also very illusory to expect that today we are setting up legislation that will be written for the following, say, twenty, thirty years in this area. We're not setting her up! Because it is impossible to build it because development will run because it is a living organism, the landscapes are a living organism, the local self-government is a living organism. And there will be changes and additions. As was the case in the case of legislation in this first level, i.e. the municipalities. Things are going to get better and better. Some errors will be revealed, which are probably also enshrined in the legislation. We have prepared legislation responsibly, professionally, and we allow that some issues are likely to be open and that there are probably other shortcomings. They'll find each other now. And anything that can be fixed now, I also urge that we fix these things together now. Things are open. Of course, we are aware that this is actually your responsibility, because it is the responsibility of the National Assembly, because the procedure is being carried out in the National Assembly, and it is also. However, we will cooperate to the best of our power in these matters because we want it to be quality legislation. I'm saying it again. However, if we want to make things right, then they must be partners on both sides of the table and they must be concrete proposals on the table. I cannot agree to the flat-rate argument that now after two years of coordination, after two years of taking into account proposals coming from different points, everything is wrong! I really can't agree to this. I'm so sorry! I also appeal to this National Assembly that, taking into account the needs of the provinces, bearing in mind that when we have had this discussion with you, we have raised great hopes in individual environments. In Koroškem, in Prekmurje, it is virtually possible in the entire territory of Slovenia. Perhaps the least is true in central Slovenia and some other environments, which are very few, where they are very developed. And these environments also need landscapes. However, for the rest, it is essential to take a step forward in terms of coherent regional development. If we are to take a step in this direction, people will have at least comparable living conditions regardless of where they live. In order not to be born, they will already be handicapped, because there is a gross product 50% lower because there is a negative trend and because this makes all the other conditions significantly more difficult and will tell them that everyone will want to move to the center of Slovenia. You probably don't want that, do you? Slovenia, Ljubljana, also central Slovenia can be strong only when it has a strong Slovenia, when it will also have a strong rural area. I therefore reiterate my assessment that the establishment of the landscapes is necessary and therefore I think that this development opportunity should also be given to these environments. I'm sure they'll make a very successful use of it. And when I talk about it, not in this mandate and not in any other term, it is not a matter of guessing any government in any option. If it does not come to this, if someone thinks it is speculation, then it does not dictate to politics - it dictates to Slovenians and Slovenians in fact, because it does not enable them to realize this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard much about this historic moment of ours. However, I must say that at times of history, like when we were talking about joining the European Union, about Nate and things like that, we were never so slaughtered and never so dissonant as we are today. I think that the ruling coalition and the departmental ministry should have more obedience, and now in this National Assembly, we should not be wasting the untruths. Mr Minister, if you are interested, with the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia you have had two interviews; the first, 22 May 2007, the second, 2.10.2007, where it was not a coordination, but you presented the Government's proposal, but we have always stressed the expectation that you will answer and do analyses and calculations for individual variants of the number of provinces on which you could assess and determine the advantages and weaknesses of this individual proposal. You didn't do this to us. There were no other conversations between us at the parliamentary club. But the way you talk to Members here in the halls and so on, these things are different. At the same time, I would also say that this is also a historic moment because we are just before the elections and, in my opinion, as far as I know the legislation and the consequences of such unfinished legislation, the adoption of such an unfinished law would be a political suicide for a future government team. Even if we look through this prism, the parties are more than justified to take on a much larger scale than ever before, to tackle this problem and to see what this law will bring to those who will take on the government at the end of the year and will want to bring Slovenia under this law among the most developed societies of Europe or among lighthouses, as someone has said, in Europe. I think we are in a cruel world of market economy, not in a period of socialist self-government. And I think that the basic guidance in dividing the country into these parts should be that this division will bring development not only within Slovenia, but also into Slovenia as such in Europe, which no longer has borders that have an open market economy and I do not see this objective, on the basis of what has been transmitted to us. I think we should have what I said first, financial indicators. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, the financial indicators of the proposed law. What I can understand, you may know more coalition Members. An assessment of the financial implications for the calculation of the law; the proposal for a law has no financial implications for the adoption of the 2007 and 2008 state budget, because it does not need to be because we did not have this law in 2007. It's a bluff, it's a joke. What, though, will it be for 2009, what will it be like in 2010, what will it take in 2011, how much will it take to finance such a province in 2012? How much will it take? The Germans say, "Das Geld reiert die Welt." We have a better, better term, we say money is a holy ruler. Are we going to be just how much money is going to be spent on the functioning of 572 saints as needed to do this? I mean, a little. How long will it take for the entire administration to do so? And so on. I don't know if you, Minister, would be nice to have you write us here in this explanation to give us and that you could tell us these things. But we have certainly witnessed something lately that I do not see clearly, not only in the field of local self-government, but also in other areas - say, school, research and so on. Not long ago, we had laws that were opposed to by the entire professional public, the whole interested public, the unions were against, the students were against, but the government accepted these things. And for such adopted laws, after what we've discussed, they didn't carry any development, but they were carrying a larger setback. I think that if we look at it -- I'm the Internet director of the Institute for Local Self-Government, the third member of the IFIMES International Institute of Law, the Province some of the current problems. What does this guy say as an expert? He says: "As is known, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes the establishment of fourteen provinces. The government believes that the regionalisation of Slovenia to fourteen provinces is the most appropriate basis for public debate and consideration in municipal councils. The proposal is based on taking into account the proposed tasks and responsibilities of the provinces, the proposed funding system and the public, economic and historical reasons." - if you've listened to Jelinčič and some others, but leave him alone, I have a lot of concerns here. The proposal takes into account the division of Slovenia into development regions and the predominant territorialisation of the state administration, that is what the Government said. This includes the historical reasons and will of people. However, the profession, Mr Minister, has been in the majority position since 2004, that economic, social, geographical, comparative, cross-border, national, European, globalisation and other reasons dictate the establishment of 6 to a maximum of 8 provinces. Therefore, the profession advocates a model of large provinces that would have sufficient human and material resources to carry out their very large tasks, would be a stronger partner in relation to the country, cross-border connections and more successful in obtaining funds from the European Union funds. They would also be more rational and efficient than small areas could be. We get between 6 and 9 provinces if the province should have at least 100,000 inhabitants and meet other conditions and so on - geographical and so on. This is the first profession, or Dr. Stane Vlaj, which I know and have been following for a long time, a completely uncreditable person in this area! There can be 100 experts, 100 opinions, but I follow and believe this opinion with the arguments he cited. On the other hand, I think, look, there are about 2 million of us, Mr. Secretary. If we have 14 provinces, on average there are certainly less than 150,000 to the province. And we know that on average 150,000 is the limit for the third division you spoke of earlier. So our provinces will somehow be under the outskirts of Austria or the regions. Let us see what we do, and on the one hand this thing is understandable. Austria has 8.3 million inhabitants, divided into 9 countries, with an average of 922,000. Italy, 57 million, on average, if I take it and round it up, has 4 million per province. France, 60,000 and 26 regions have 2 million 307. So you see on one side, when we compare these works in Europe, we have Goliath on one side, and on our side we have David. And how will the country chief of Austria's Styria go about talking about the country's projects? [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Sir, do I always upset you in these discussions? How will he go to talk in these small "subbecirka", as I say, once in Mursko Sobota, will go to Ptuj, will go to Maribor once, will go to Celje for the second time, will go to Slovenia Gradec or Velenje and so on. I understand that, Minister, and you've done well what your colleague said before, and you've beheaded me. We're too small. At the second level, where cohesion regions are, you have achieved this, and I recognize it, in Brussels, that Europe has decided that we will have two cohesion regions; which does not help us much, but in the future financial perspective you have done a service that at least one part of Slovenia will be able to draw on these funds. It would be almost impossible in our smallness to have two provinces here. You went, which I also welcome, on the third level to these development regions, or "bezireks" or districts, if you like, on the 12th. And that's what you did in Brussels. You didn't get 14 there. Not so long ago in Brussels you said: Slovenia needs 12 development regions, two cohesion regions. "And you got this'scrap'," but now we're nice in this area that you want to put this thing on 14 already. How are we going to send it to Eurostat? We both know this regulation - standards, classifications, but if you want, the Luxembourg regulation, where Slovenia is located and where it obtains statistics. On the one hand, we will collect, and Brussels will send data for one of the constants, on the other hand, when we set up the other, but we will try to re-set these things in Brussels and move on to a new one. And I think that kind of thing and that kind of thing doesn't drink water like it should. I'm always like a guy from Scylla-Karibdo Province. On the one hand, it would be very easy to press this button and attach this law to it. And if we worked hard enough, we talked, and if we could clear up those things, we wouldn't be done with such a swing of hands, for some elements in the number of landscapes, maybe this meeting would look different today. Minister, here you and your Government have not made enough efforts, you have come up with a solution that is liked by the politics that people like - some; because, again, we will plot, share "divines et inspera", and then we will have these small creations, which will not be able to fulfill that mission for which we are supposed to be Members here. I respect New Slovenia because it was consistent and hoped to say publicly that such a large number of landscapes do not bring us any development and some progress. I respect that, boys. You're in principle. That's what you have to say. But in the coalition I know, I used to be, and I had to go to the vote sometimes, and then I didn't look in the mirror for 14 days. But I could say the following. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[..]] Who will pay for all of this: political likeness and, on the other hand, some model that Slovenia would really bring some progress, something new? Who's gonna pay for all this? Who's gonna pay for all this? Who's gonna pay us where we're gonna get the money, boys? We give the economy bigger taxes, new taxes, and we charge them? Or we'll leave the economy and we'll say, "Do well," and then we'll cut the social transfers, and then we'll hit health, and after school, and by the rest. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, until I can assure and clear financial indicators where this will lead us in the coming years, I cannot say with certainty that I will press the button to confirm such a law with such a number of landscapes. I don't think this thing is good for Slovenia. I think it is politically desirable to have political points on one side, and on the other hand, I think that, as I have read at least, as much as my modest knowledge leaves it to it that it is professionally insufferable. And as far as that is concerned, I can say that you can also understand the opposition that if only when you need it, you try to influence the best of things with some misinformation here. If it were, the Minister like you said, I would have had at least these answers to the questions I've asked here, which I've already answered, and that's not the way it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thanks again for saying that. I also owe, from before, a number of questions, but they do not specifically concern this law. But it is true that this is package legislation. With regard to these last issues related to statistical divisions, the fact that the regulation refers to 150 000 on average is that there is no exception in Europe at this time, but that the regulation allows for exceptions, thus allowing negotiations on exceptions. However, this is a matter of further procedures in the future. At this point, Slovenia has two cohesion regions, as you mentioned, which will enter into force, practically effective, with 2014, i.e. in the next new financial perspective and has twelve statistical development regions, which we have just repeated, because they are more than 10 years old and are probably also very much at the heart or the source of these solutions that we have today on the table because these solutions are present all the time and because they are going through this development, and because, as I have already said, when we adopted the Law on Harmonized Regional Development and I think that LDS has just submitted an amendment because it wanted to increase from 12 to 14 statistical development regions. I will not now say that Mr Moge agreed to this as a Member, but the amendment was certainly the same and we can also look at the debate from that time. As far as analysis and my presence are concerned. I attended, and we went evenly to all the parliamentary groups, to those who wanted more of these meetings, we answered several times. I'm not going to argue that we've only been with you twice, I'm almost certain that more than twice. But I'm not sure we met there necessarily. And we've forwarded all the analyses, including the financial ones that were made, to all the parliamentary groups, 100%. But it is true, and as far as financial effects are concerned, they are enshrined in the Transfer of Powers Act, the global financial impact. However, when we look at the package of legislation, we need to read the package of legislation together with the Government's decision on the 2009 budget projection, because the basic scheme has been made with regard to the carry-over of tasks down, along with financial resources and along with human resources structures. So, in this sense, this operation is definitely financially neutral and we continue to insist and there are no new personnel from this title. In the future, when the provinces begin to operate, this is the responsibility of individual provinces. And I am from the experience I have from local self-government, because I have led one of the largest municipalities for quite some time, and if you look at the analysis, the expert analysis of the municipalities, at this point, then you can find that the municipalities, according to my assessment, are successful, practically to the greatest extent possible, but it is true that they also have different administrative costs in individual segments. This, however, speaks of the effectiveness of managing individual congregations. And from this title, I am an optimist, it is possible, because these decisions have been made lower, that is to say closer to the end user, it will be from this title and there will be additional environmental pressure, including political pressure, and the future provincial administrations will certainly act more rationally than we now have these state administrations, and when we have this regional part relatively far away from the centre, however we want to talk about it. And from this title, as the project is set up, there are virtually no additional costs. Of course, this is always the point at which attention is to be paid. But I can agree with you on that. But we also need to pay attention now that we have only the first level of local self-government, we have only municipalities. And that is why, of course, it comes after every election, or the replacement, as far as municipal councilors are concerned, and as far as mayors are concerned, because the mayors are always under this political responsibility and are practically responsible to the local environment for how they spend these funds. And from this title, we expect that the effects will be substantially, substantially higher than any additional costs for the actions of the provincial authorities, not the administration. The administration is within this staff, which is available at this moment, which is moving downwards, it must be sufficient that it can also cover the needs of action, with the true support of the provincial authority. In the second part, she will have to carry out these tasks. So there are no new financial burdens in the systemic sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Respectable. In view of all of this today, I am pleased that the vote will not be today after the adjourned session, but that we will all take it together, in fact, I am talking mainly to the opposition, that you will take some time to think and then decide differently than you are now. I feel like you're defending bureaucracy. You talk very little about people. About the people that this legislation is intended for. I think that everyone here, in this Chamber, agrees that decentralisation is absolutely necessary. All these indicators of development, these huge differences, drastic differences in fact, are calling for decentralisation. The opposition also agrees. But at the end of the day, it's always "But, no, we're not going to support this legislation." And I got the feeling that the opposition would not support this legislation because it was proposed by the government of Janez Janša. I think that's the main reason why the situation is now, so the opposition's thinking has changed so. Another year ago, as I recall, all the champions of the parties said it was a good way to go, that it was the right way. Now all of a sudden, everything's bad, everything's wrong. I don't think so. Despite the plebiscite majority of mayors, municipal councils, when virtually everyone agrees with the proposed legislation. No, no, no. The opposition argues that this is not such that this legislation is weak. I say the opposite. This legislation is good. I know that you are members of the opposition in some dilemma, and I believe that you are and I understand you. And you might want to reconsider before you press the button on the vote, so when you press the counter button. I wish everyone would press for it. How to look into the eyes of people in Koroška, in Pomurje, Dry Krajina and so on, how to look them in the eyes and tell them, no, I disagree. Even if you agree with that, we are here because we are Members, we do not agree with that. I don't think this is the right approach and we should think about it. I think that all of you or all of us come from these environments to which we want to give more to whom we want to give some incentive for development. We all live in these provinces, live there, live with these people, and face these differences that the Minister has presented a little earlier. Pomurska will achieve the current development of Ljubljana in forty-four years. Is that what we really want? I don't think so. And not just Pomurska, all of these future landscapes are far, far behind. I must say, at the visit of our Group of Members to one of the regions, I spoke to the mayor, who comes from the LDS and asked me to give some information. He asked me to vote in favour of this legislation, and he also gave me written material which says that the municipality of Žuzemberk has one-and-a-one settlements, of which seventy are demographically endangered, although the remaining developed settlements have no water supply, no sewerage. The most important place is Žuzemberk, now the administrative center of the municipality. In the congregation, this is a very important information, in the congregation there is a total length of local roads of 84 kilometers, of which another quarter are macadamian. The length of the public road is 83 kilometers and 60% are still macadamian. The development of the congregation went on with a new establishment, but now they can no longer move forward and want regionalisation, they want a step forward. And I think it is the obligation of all of us who are here in the National Assembly to take these wishes into account and support them. Almost no law we adopted in the National Assembly was so good that he did not experience any change. It's the first step, let's take this little step to get to the second reading. That's all we want to do is get a second reading, and then, I mean, in the meantime, there's still a possible one-off debate, a discussion where some consensus can be found to really bring this to an end. Not to say now at first reading, this legislation is bad, we are against and the issue is being swept under carpets and the question whether this legislation will ever see light again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Government and representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. When I listen to this debate today, especially the opposition colleagues, it seems that our legislative process does not know three stages. Today we have a general debate, then a second and a third debate. And I don't understand that we are already discussing in the general debate and talking about how everything sucks, how it's not acceptable. On the other hand, we get signals from the field saying, "Come on, we'll change in the next stages." And as a fellow Croat said, yes, then why do we have, I'll say, three stages? Why do we have an Administrative, Constitutional Court, not least an ex-post legislative referendum to address the matter to the end? If we thought and debated that way, I am convinced that we would not today have at least 200 good developmental local communities or communities. The third thing I'd like to say to my colleague Mohet is that I apologize for falling into the line if I thought as much as he said, "No." The Italian province has a million, but I don't know how much, the Austrian region has so much French. The state wouldn't have us because there's only one suburb of Berlin. Two million. I don't know how much Berlin has. We probably wouldn't have a country if you thought that. Third thing I'd like to say. If we sincerely wanted some of the opposition's colleagues to have talks on the ground when they were talking to people, the provinces could bring down a referendum. And this referendum could be a measure to the government, and I'll tell us. Just like my friends next door from Illyrian Bistrica took the referendum. [[...]] They said, "We don't want to go to Notranska. We want to be Primors." And? The government has taken their views into account. Now I can't imagine doing a referendum. Not at the level of the country that the Primors decide about Korošci, about the Central-Slovenian province. Nor do I picture a referendum in the fourteen proposed provinces when the inhabitants of SASH said, "We do not want to." Then where would the National Assembly put them? And since I would like to leave some of my fellow Members a few minutes, I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, let's say that this law is appropriate, let's organize, let's sit down. I think the minister has said several times: "The willingness is to find the best solution that will mean" In the end, maybe even 6 or 8 landscapes. Why not? However, today we are giving the green light that the matter is going into the procedure and until the second reading, the Government can also draw up a different proposal that we can make with the amendments, either on the working body or on the plenary session, and we can change. In short, I will support that the matter goes forward, and if there is a need for further deliberation, not least about the designation of the areas, but I do not know what we are going to do when the two remaining laws are being discussed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Given the diversity of today's debates, as well as the preliminary opinions of the Government's parliamentary groups, it is clear that there has been insufficient debate on this legislation. This is the last one. We'll just have six. The general debate is necessary and the general debate must tell whether the Government's proposal is 14 provinces, as well as functions and methods of transfering functions, says. I don't think so. Especially because there's a government thesis that the most developed should grow slower instead of the thesis: "Let's make such landscapes so that they can grow faster." This is why the discussion today should focus on the content of provincial legislation. The content should be largely determined by the people, the will of the people. And I don't know why you're afraid of an advisory referendum. And then we're going to ask people, "3, 6, maybe 14 or more?" It is clear from the law establishing the provinces that there is no agreement on the number, nor on the areas of these provinces. For me, the number of landscapes is not the most important, but the number depends on the content of the landscapes. Today we are implementing the largest decentralisation in the history of Slovenia. Today's three laws, in particular the Law on the Transfer of Powers, are the largest decentralisation in the history of Slovenia. Are we aware of what we're doing? With one law, we turn into dozens of laws, hundreds of acts under the law, we create 14 mini-state budgets, and we are supposed to do so in 2009, when we have no money, no people, no procedures. Therefore, today I will not contribute to the law that the law establishing the provinces, the transfer and so on is a suitable law. All of this should be postponed until the next term. First, it will be necessary to prepare state budgets for the years 2010-2011, to exclude the funds we are earmarking for the provinces, to prepare framework budgets for these provinces, and above all, to cut into the original laws and by individual laws the words: "This will be done by the State, and this will be done by the provinces." And clearly delimit the rights, duties of the state and the provinces. This should be the content of the provincial legislation, not that we have a number first, and then the numbers in one law are adapted to the provisions of a tenth, hundreds of laws. Then, and if we do this, we can only rightly ask ourselves, "What is possible and what is not possible at the provincial level? What are the provinces capable of doing? What in terms of the economy does it really make sense for the landscapes to work?" And to this we will get an answer to the question, how many landscapes is it worth having in Slovenia? Today and here the government has managed to show only by comparing how many years it will take other provinces to reach the Ljubljana province. This display of statistics is the thing about that river: "Little lie, big lie, statistics." Make a calculation for 6 or 3 provinces, and the difference will be only a few years. Make a calculation for 10 provinces, how many congregations there are today, and the differences will be several centuries. It comes from economies of scale, and it will be clear that a range of areas should be different, because there are many legitimate concerns about where you put someone. You can't separate a place where people work actively and where people live. Therefore, it would be good to consider many larger regions. This is based on the following fundamental question. We cannot have regions in Slovenia without additional money. Where's that money? This money is only in European budgets. Therefore, in my opinion, it would make sense to do only three regions: Western Slovenia or Primorsko, Central Slovenia or Ljubljana, or if you want Kranjska and Eastern Slovenia or Stajersko. I have always supported the regionalisation of Slovenia, which would contribute to more equitable regional development, but not to the establishment of landscapes. It would be good if these three provinces were also European cohesion regions and, of course, they would have clearly for the next few decades, at least two out of three, full conditions for European funding. The proposals of the laws that you have presented here today, which have been made in a hierarchical way, of course, have, in my opinion, the profession, according to financial calculations, simply too many shortcomings and cannot be rectified. Thesis of adopting poorly prepared legislation and later correcting it is not acceptable to me. We have been doing this in the congregations for 13 years. I do not say that everything is not good in the work of the municipalities, but whether the effect and money that we give are properly spent are best known by those financial directors who know the hidden obligations of the municipalities. President Vada's statement: "Better bad than nothing" is not the right way for me. It is the right way to define the tasks, the powers of the provinces, the acquisition of real European resources and, on this basis, to adopt good laws. If we are in favour of more equitable regional development, if the parties to the current government coalition have really recognized the need to establish provinces, which they have not yet established in the previous mandate, then I see no reason why they would not support this establishment in the next term, even if you will then be in opposition. This is especially so if we are all listening to a people who can give us input into our decisions by answering an appropriate referendum question or by extensive public research. That is why I support the idea of an advisory referendum and after Bayuk's stop horses or better leave horses in the stables, calm the ball, make calculations, options, and therefore come from the interests of all citizens and not just future officials from 14 or more provinces. If we have this in front of our eyes, then the landscape will be less. I hope not more than three. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In this debate comes the most difficult words and sentences as the moment of truth has come, the masks will fall, you are or are not, and especially years many critics of those mayors who are from the opposition and who are obviously characterized as those who are not for development, like those who are not for decentralisation, like those who are against the development of even Slovenia. I think that these words and assessments are inappropriate, that the President of the Government himself started with him at a meeting of mayors last week, that they have been continued by Mr Minister and that we are listening to them today by colleagues and colleagues. I say that, after all our talks with all our fellow mayors, who are also Members of larger or smaller municipalities, we are all for decentralisation, we are all for development, we are all for having our citizens, citizens alike, similar opportunities and, above all, for Slovenia to be successful as such and to develop more quickly. However, such a law as is prepared here today will not lead to decentralisation, but into one state called the "decentisation" of the system of Slovenia. It's not the nicest word, but you can understand it. The problems that will arise will be solved. The minister himself in the introduction almost asks, make suggestions, let's improve the law. However, the provincial law, legislation is too important for development to be adopted in this way: "Better than nothing, then we will fix". It is therefore necessary, as has already been suggested, to stop this debate and prepare a proposal that will not be burdened by what the Government so often or the coalition has so often found: "This is what the previous government has been preparing." Yes, this political burden from the previous mandate, when the LDS wanted the Ptuj-Ormo region and when SD wanted to have SASA, has put pressure on the professional debate in this mandate. And if, in the previous term, there was no agreement or constitutional amendment and if the coalition and the position were able to adopt constitutional changes in this mandate, what would be wrong if we adopted the relevant provincial legislation in the next term, regardless of who the Member would be, regardless of who would be in power? And it would be wise and good to take time to do so, according to your historical decisions. Nothing will change and it is misleading and unfair for those people to be more successful as a result of the adoption of legislation at the second level of local self-government. If that were true, then the part of Slovenia that really took local self-government and established municipalities would be the real northeast part of Slovenia, where the largest number of municipalities is unfortunately least developed, it is said that even the adoption of this provincial legislation will not contribute to faster development and that the regions will catch up in a shorter time. Therefore, I am convinced that it is saying that there will be no increased costs, no more bureaucracy, no more misleading and that this is such a burden that we will impose on those who create real value. All of us who were with colleagues in the Czech Republic at the working council saw this clearly. We visited their specific regions, where they told us clearly and loudly: "There has been more bureaucracy, it is more expensive and even more difficult to live at local level".
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Today, of course, we are certainly talking about an extremely important issue of provincial law, and here I would agree with my fellow Member, the forerunner, who said the masks would fall today. But you did or you didn't. It is true, I agree, that the masks will fall, they will fall today, but they will fall even more probably at the time of the vote. So the key question is whether we are in favour of improving the situation of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia or not. I believe that all the Members who are sitting here today in the Chamber should also be those who do not ask three simple questions and then answer them. For the first time, whether we want decentralisation, secondly, whether we want a balanced, balanced development of Slovenian regions and municipalities, of course, and thirdly, or whether we want to achieve by decentralisation a better and better quality of life for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. These are certainly three simple questions that may require three not so simple answers, but I believe that those who vote against these provinces will find it difficult to explain why you are against this, difficult to explain to citizens and citizens. At the beginning of this mandate, a debate began on the amendment of the three articles of the Constitution due to the interest and the desire to implement the provinces and their tasks. At that time, all opposition parties, or at least most opposition parties, supported these constitutional changes, including the biggest opposition party to the Social Democrats, and today because of their leader, Mr Borut Pahor, they suddenly no longer support this. Although their mayors also absolutely support the provinces and this change of legislation. Today, just before this decision to implement this project, which is also supported by the citizens of this country, although Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem was a little skeptical about it, but we have received a lot of e-mails to our postal addresses, probably you, too, in support of these provinces and certainly I see no problem with the referendum, this is my personal opinion. I am convinced that those who want to develop the landscape in a balanced manner would make the right decision. This is also supported by mayors, including mayors of social democrats, LDS, that we could see well in the echo show, supported by municipal councillors, but some who are sitting here today have somehow squeezed their tails between their legs. I don't think there's any weakness in courage going on here. This one can come again. But certainly for a lot of conjecture, which is worse than ever losing your courage. I just think that some people are simply going to be political prestige, and, unfortunately, this speculation is not good. It is not good for citizens and citizens of this country of Slovenia because it is not responsible. It is mainly to the detriment of those people who do not live in the centre of Slovenia and do not have such a life opportunity to improve their position. Whether it is economic, employment, social or social. I'm going to say that whoever you are or are going to oppose this legislation, you're obviously also for the so-called brain drain. He's already talked about it with a colleague from SLS. I absolutely agree with that. Today, the situation is that most young people, researchers, experts in various fields due to poor employment opportunities in different parts of Slovenia are rightly going to the centre, to Ljubljana, to the surroundings of Ljubljana, where they have significantly more opportunities to realize this knowledge. We have talked about this many times in the National Assembly, and I know that you have all stood in the position that such a brain escape must be plagued, that the educated force must remain in the home. And I'm convinced that we'd stay, that it's their wish if we had the chance. But today, you're denying them this option because you don't support this legislation. Maybe it's funny to someone, but it's true, Mrs. Potter. Among them, you are obviously all those who tend to stand up for all those who are in a worse social situation, a worse economic situation, and now you are opposed to this improvement. This, in my opinion, is certainly at odds with all logic and common sense. I come from the so-called future, if we accept it, the mountainous region. Of course, we can talk about that name. This does not mean that this legislation will now be adopted on Friday, so that the name of the mountainous region will already be given. The mountainous region is in a good position, in a relatively good position, as far as development is concerned. And it's getting better. I myself believe that by establishing these landscapes, it would be possible to know more about the development of the bitter. When we last had a visit to the government in Goriška and the ministerial team, and then also followed the discussion about the provinces, most of the participants there supported the project. The mayor of the capital of Nova Gorica as well as a member of the Social Democrats. This project was supported, except I don't know if it might not be supported anymore. I think it is necessary to conclude that the rest of my fellow Members will have the opportunity. For example, if we look at Prekmurje, which is lagging behind, we all know this, about the most developed parts of Slovenia, then it is inhuman in my opinion that you deny these people the right to a better position that they deserve just like the people of Ljubljana, for example, or the surrounding areas, or, if we want, the Gorje region, which still has a slightly better position. I'm sure you'll vote as wise and wise as possible. We'll see about that on Friday. However, I still don't understand, I don't know how you're going to explain this to those who know that this legislation can really help them in a better situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Regional legislation is a project that has already been adopted by developed Europe in various organisational forms. However, each country has adopted such a model that suits it most. More or less, almost all governments have thought about the restructuring of Slovenia. However, this government has succeeded in bringing legislation to the point where we are discussing it today in Parliament. In the past, different starting points have been given. For the final result, however, there was always a lack of will. It must be acknowledged, however, that there was a need for a change to the Constitution and that there was a consensus in Parliament in this regard. The main objective of the reorganisation is the decentralisation of Slovenia, more equitable development and at least approximately equal living and development opportunities for all inhabitants of Slovenia. What is the optimal number of landscapes? It's hard to say. The government has decided 14 provinces: 12 statistical regions plus two sub-regions, sub-regions. I come from Notranjska, from the Municipality of Cerknica, which, together with the municipalities of Loška dolina, Blocka, Postojna, Pivka and Illyrian Bistrica, surround the current Notranj-Kraška statistical region. I'd like to present the indicators. Although some say they don't mean anything, I think they say a lot. The Notranj-Kraška region had a gross domestic product per capita of 6,037 in 1995. We were last in 12 regions. 10 years later, in 2005 the gross domestic product per capita was 10.514, which means once less than the data in central Slovenia. And because of this information, I think the answer to how I'm going to vote is clear. It can't get any worse. However, I think that Notranj people should have the opportunity and it is right that we have it to get better conditions for better and faster development. Today was the right day for Notranski to say a few words. I think it's only right that I add a word or two to the word I come from that area myself. On the municipal council of Cerknica we unanimously adopted a decision, and I think it also reflects the mood of the population, I am sure, the Municipality of Loška Dolina and Bloka, that we want to live in the interior of the region, which is designed in a direction towards Ljubljana. Historical facts and naturalities have always directed our places towards the centre of the country. All our waters run towards Ljubljana, transport routes and public transport is more focused on the interior, postal and banking transport, road management, electricity and so on is directed from Ljubljana. Health care and education is largely linked to Ljubljana. We are also placed in the Ljubljana archdiocese, and we have finally beaten our car plates with Ljubljana registration. Mr Minister, I know that a lot of work has been done in this legislation and that the problems in creating this inner province or whatever it may be. When the residents of Illyrian Bistrica decided not to be in the interior region at the referendum, a proposal was formulated by the Government to include the municipalities of Pivka, Postojna, Cerknica, Loška dolina, Blocke, Logatec, Vrhnika, Borovnica and Log Dragomer. However, when they were identified in some way, some congregations also rested. Vrhnika, Borovnica and Log-Dragomer no longer saw each other in this province, and later Logatec joined this opinion and there are only 36,000 people left, which is not enough for the province. That's why we tried to sort things out in some way just to keep the interior and try to talk some municipalities: Logatec, Vrhnika, Borovnica, Log Dragomer and continue Horjul, Brezovica and Dobrova, Polhov Gradec, to try to find their place in this province by moving the difficulty to Vrhnika. What will be the solution, we don't know. However, I would like to say from this place that, if it is not possible to form an interior region, the people of the municipality, which I represent in some way: Cerknice, Loško dolina and Blok, would like to focus on the central Slovene province. We are convinced that the psychological profile of Notranjec is much closer to the inhabitants of central Slovenia than, say, Primors, if by some strange coincidence we should land on that side of Javornikov. I think it would be very embarrassing if the flea skier, where the cradle of skiing, skied at sea or, say, the Blossom Planet, which means Slovenian Siberia, were in Primorska. I am sure that we will find a solution to our great satisfaction. I hope that it will not be necessary to wait 22 years to achieve GDP per population of 20,000, as is now the case with the central Slovenian province. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Friday Miro.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Koroši expects us to adopt provincial legislation and that the division of Slovenia to the provinces will take place, and thus to decentralisation. It is not good to keep centralism in Slovenia. Apparently, this centralism corresponds to a party that, under another name, was the holder of the dictatorship of proletariat and democratic centralism. Although members of this party have now dispersed among various parties, it is obvious that this spirit of centralism has been carried along. Centralism means the desire to regulate everything from one city to another. And for the democratic centralism that we lived 20 years ago, it was typical that totalitarianism was also hidden in the form of universal centralism for democracy, which was supposed to be. I'm asking you how it's possible that centralism is democratic. This might be explained by my colleagues, doctors of science, who come from a number of sociologists and political scientists. I just don't know how centralism can be democratic. Perhaps it is democratic that Koroška was thus lagging behind central Slovenia and other Slovenian regions in the time of the centralised state. After GDP per capita, Koroška now reaches 77% of Slovenia's average. In the region of Korea, GDP per capita was €6,268 in 1995 and €1,029 per capita in 2005. After GDP, Koroška was in 2005 where, as central Slovenia was 10 years earlier, this is in 1995. According to GDP per capita, Coroška reached around 65% compared to seven and twenty in Europe. By economic power per capita, measured at the level of the income base, is lagging behind the good 10% for the Slovenian average. Gross wages per employee reached 88% of Slovenia's average in the previous year. The added value of the employee is still around 86% of the Slovenian average in Koroška. The salaries in Koroška last year were for a tenth below the Slovenian average. The development threat index, ladies and gentlemen, is 103.9%, which ranks sixth among the statistical regions. The registered unemployment rate was 8.76% in the first half of last year, above the Slovenian average. These were comparisons with the Slovenian average. What picture would it be if we compared all of this with central Slovenia? I am aware that the province itself, the act of establishing the provinces itself, will not eliminate these differences, but this would certainly be one of the most important steps. Of course, many other steps will be needed to reduce all this disharmony. Therefore, the provinces should be given the opportunity to regulate their own lives in a closed unit. Today, there was also much to be said about the division of provincial functions, the division of provincial seats between two cities. The European Union, Strasbourg, Brussels, also knows this. Why do I think this division of seats is good? Firstly, because it is not good to create regional centralisms, because polycentrism is also necessary within the regions of the regions, not only within the regions of the country, because decentralisation must be a development concept for Slovenia, but also for the provinces themselves. And finally, dividing seats also means balancing different desires, different tensions within a particular province. There were no problems, no dilemmas in Koroška regarding the border on happiness. Of course, opinions were drawn around the province’s capital. Koroška does not have a single centre, so it is good that these functions of the provinces are shared between Slovenj Gradec and Ravnam in Koroška. My friend Jelinčič gave his opinion earlier about Slovenj Gradac, and I will also tell you my position, why the headquarters of the Koro region must be on Ravna. First of all, Ravne is the largest city in Koroška. Second, because there is the largest administrative unit in Koroška with 27,000 inhabitants in the Ravna or Mežiški valley. Because Equally important is the economic centre of Koroška, the institution of economic development with all the companies of the former ironworks Ravna. Because the Levels are the most comprehensive cultural, sports, educational center in Koroška. Since the country in Ravna, Koroška, already owns suitable premises and after that the country's and the province's salaries would cost nothing. Because this is how the agreement on the dispersion of institutions and institutions within the province is implemented. Because Levels are an important part of the history and identity of Koroška and because the capital of Koroška must still be in Koroška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings for me, too! The proposal for a law establishing the provinces that we have on the agenda is one of the most demanding, if I may say so, in this package. It would probably also make sense that we can solve this first and then all the other laws that are still needed to this extent. But in all of this, I may have a serious dilemma in the introduction. However, we are transferring a whole range of powers from the country or from the ministries to the provinces, which should therefore have the effect of reducing future ministries in future governments. If we reduce the volume of work in ministries, it is probably reasonable to think that these resources are less than they are today. In this way, I think that there would also be a more pleasant climate in terms of whether the new provinces actually mean only and only additional burdens on public finances, or whether it is only by transferring competences to those so-called, ongoing matters that are being carried out today in the ministries, but will be carried out in the provinces tomorrow. Perhaps we could also define here the difference of resources that we always need when we talk about the landscapes, that the landscapes must also be developed and that this may also be one of the potential sources with which the landscapes could have more success in setting up their development. Otherwise, I believe that the proposal for a law establishing the provinces has not taken into account all the strategic documents in the Republic of Slovenia, which we have adopted so far, and are also in fact an important guide for further development. I am thinking of a specific decree on the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, in which we have very precisely described and defined the importance and role of individual regions, the importance of individual cities, places and how to reduce these differences in development. And it is precisely this proposal for a law establishing the provinces that does not contain or summarize, at least to a large extent, this strategic document that we have adopted here in Parliament. If that were the case, we would not be able to meet today that we have a very dense network of landscapes in the western part of Slovenia, both in the north and mainly in the eastern part of Slovenia, and the south remained completely untouched. The southern part of Slovenia does not have a concrete solution in this bill to reduce these developmental differences, the role in Slovenia to the southern part of Slovenia. There is no solution to this division of landscapes. It is true that a move has been made by trying to take at least one part of the proposals from southern Slovenia into account in the sense that Kočevska is placed in the central Slovenia or the Ljubljana region. The importance of this decision is also that it is actually a life relationship that communicates daily, exists and it is logical that this part of Slovenia is located in this central Slovenia. Of course, this region is far more problematic or the province, both by its size and by its size. And I really appeal to the fact that in further procedures when we talk about the provinces, however, we assess whether the southern part of Slovenia is the one that we can talk about, either 15th or elsewhere, I don't know, where social gatherings are going, because some municipalities have already decided in Notranj that they are more central or Ljubljana's landscape and that the problem is opening up. A compromise solution may be achieved by actually giving the southern part of Slovenia a concrete task. Why am I talking about Kočevska and this decision about strategic development, spatial development? This document makes it very clear: "In Kočevska, due to natural conditions, borders, a rare network, centres and poorer accessibility to the national centre, it is placed at the centre of the regional importance of the most important public function." The most important public functions are those that we transfer from these laws to the provinces. In fact, this creates a variety of jobs, enables the development of production activities and leads us to balanced development, and thus also to enabling the development of Kočevska as a centre of national importance. If that is not the case in this provincial package, I must admit that, as a Member coming from this area, I cannot agree with this package of legislation, because it does not bring to the southern part of Slovenia anything but that we will not talk to the ministries about our development needs, but with an intermediate level at the provincial level. And the day after tomorrow, when we fail to settle in the provinces, we'll try to contact the ministries. In short, problems with further development. However, the developmental differences between southern Slovenia and all other parts of Slovenia are largely too large for them to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I do not oppose the establishment of the provinces, nor will I oppose them. But until I push the button or raise my hand for them, there will be something else to do. No doubt about it. Decentralization - sounds good. But this moment is just a political pre-election fly. The political circus, which will accompany the autumn national elections, had already started. For me, far from being a key question, will the number of landscapes there be between 3 and 14 or 25. Nor does it matter what these provinces will be called, even less where the provincial center will be. However, as a mayor, as a representative of the people, I am interested in when we will receive concrete answers, how much more money we receive from this, specifically, in the congregation, and how much more authority. We just didn't say enough about these things. Once you convince me and tell me that we will get so much and so much more for water and rehabilitation after storms in the congregation that, instead of which wall and which dam, someone in Ljubljana will decide to decide for themselves in the region, then I will raise my hand for them. Waste is also one of the key problems of Gorenjska. Waste management is also not expected to be a large part of these utility services, but not just waste, including plumbing, cleaning plants and sewerage, so that it can be transferred to the province and there will be more money for that. We haven't received any of your accurate assurances for this. I admit that since we have spoken and talked about the provinces in Slovenia, no one has done so much for them as Minister Žagar, who has really invested a lot of time, a lot of energy and has also taken a step forward. And we're missing a few more details, and then we're close to the stories. Even the referendum yes or no, we asked people about all the other things that were more important politically than the provinces, and let us ask them about the provinces and pour them pure wine, how much we are going to cost. At this point, I'm afraid because the water is running down our throats, we need to get the project under our roof quickly. Even with the words, if you do, take him in and we'll fix him. On farmers, we used to say, "If there's no rain, it's good." But I don't think we can agree to that logic in this story. During this week, when the debates are intensifying, we have heard many times," let us accept, the mayors support this legislation and then we will correct it. You've already convinced us of this story in a few laws. Yesterday I spoke to our employee, who goes to the town hall, what's waiting for us all in this story. And the burden previously set for the country is now being passed on to the congregation. What the police fail to do, for which they have neither the resources nor the human resources nor the financial, we will now be burdened by the congregations. Education, kindergartens, the same story, if we want to do something, it's the burden of municipal budgets. It's easy to tell Minister Beast that kindergartens will be cheaper for another child. Of course, because he's going to overtake the burdens and burdens of the congregations. If the country has a serious purpose, then all these systemic stories should be taken over and financially accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Gaber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that today we are discussing an issue that is very important to this country. My personal conviction not since yesterday is that we are discussing this very late, and that it would have been much better for Slovenia if the landscapes had been formed five, seven years ago. At that time, we were twice as close to doing something like this. Today, however, I feel as I listen to the debate from different sides that we are very close to having this experiment fall into the water this time too. For two reasons. For one thing, there is something here to think about how the story of the provinces is, above all, a story about how we will take the rich and give the poor, if one is so rich that they are able and need to take it away and give it to someone else who doesn't. I understood that the redistribution of wealth in this country, there are already mechanisms for it, there may be other mechanisms for it, but we probably don't work the provinces to redistribute wealth. We are working to create points that will contribute to the development potential of different spaces. If this isn't a basic idea, then I don't see exactly the specific reasons why we're setting up the provinces. I hope that this rhetoric will calm down slightly, so that we can deal more with how in the provinces can be drawn to the development of as many potentials as possible already there. How can the country's entire policy be driven in such a way that it guides these developmental incentives properly and that we will be less concerned with how to take the supposed wealth to the capital and Maribor and to give it to someone else and give it to someone else. Another reason why it can be that all of this will fall together is because we lack the feeling that we are not talking here about questions of logic that concern pure reasoning or something like that. We're talking about issues of interest. And in politics, that's usually what we talk about. And if it is in the interest of someone, the Minister and the President of the Government, to get to the provinces, and probably they should be, then it is obvious that the train must be stopped before the vote, to agree to review the open points, and from those open points, with the parties in February, with the parliamentary groups and also those interested in future potential regions, to agree and then to move forward with these laws. It can happen that when we force our first vote by means of a rapid procedure, we will force the collapse of the project of the regions. I wouldn't want it myself, vice versa, it seems to me that the minister and the team would also deserve to make this additional thought so that the government together can make a project for Slovenia instead of a prestigious government-non-governmental project. If the vote is to be put to the vote as quickly as possible, then everything shows that this project will not. I hope, Mr Minister, that you, alone and together with the President of the Government in the coalition, will be able to manage this assessment, so that it is better to postpone the project for so long that the funding issues, which are obviously still open, give further thought to the questions of headquarters; questions also of illogical roundings of certain regions and there are some more. But I don't think there's more than ten. And it would be bad if we stopped at this point again. Because they'll all be back in the next term. And nothing will be better than this moment, even then. But it'll only get worse for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u82	Slavka, thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the president! It's more than complicated. Even in the morning, I listened carefully to this part of the afternoon what we had actually invented when we adopted this legislation, until the draft of this legislation. And it all worked out, in fact, that I am now absolutely convinced that it is too early to decide on these proposals. I'll make it simple. Each builder knows that when he pours a plate, the plateau, as it is said, is not after her for "mendrati" immediately the next day, that some processes must be carried away, to make the matter firm, to be clarified. And we have a similar situation here. All recognition to Mr Zhagar and his team for the work done, but I do not think that the key things for which we are supposed to go to regionalisation are covered by this legislation. Above all, I'm talking about development. It's not like that. It's all taken to this administrative, bureaucratic level. A billion is taken to the regional level, but we do not know how much costs there will be. What if there's a billion and a half? We know that red tape reproduces spontaneously, partenogeneticly, as it is said, and that from one official we get two and then four and so on. People will not have an easy life because of this. Now they had a congregation, an administrative unit, and a country. Now they're going to have some institute in between, and they're going to travel, I don't know, I'm going to say, by the stupidest version, from Trebovlje to Kamnik, and they're going from there to the Great Mountain, to the hospital in Trbovlje. What's going to happen to education, health care? In fact, none of this is clear. It's too early. Don't force the child we started to change the constitution into being born too soon. Not that it's going to be a spontaneous abortion. Because otherwise, everything you've done will be really great. Let's leave the matter to itself to agree that it will be brought out more in peace than it is now. And then I think it'll be a lot easier to talk. But if we are already talking about the number of landscapes, I must say that something is natural, which is thousands of years in Slovenia - now we are not talking about thousands of years of dreams, because there are not - but thousands of years of dialects. That's of course. Because it's about communication. In Slovenia we have eight dialectic groups. It means eight areas that have been in communication all the time. You need to look at this and then see where the so-called sociological natural boundaries are. Everything else, all the fantasies about what Karel the Great has left us, that the incompetent sons have regionalized the German-Roman Empire, is "Lari Fari". And if we didn't take part in it, it's no big deal. This legislation is intended to go forward, not backwards. It's not for licking wounds and history deficits. But if he's one of the local rulers, potential, he's already bought a crown and a scepter, let him have it as a memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's obviously important matter, an important marriage. The memory slips into that electoral year in 2004, when we walked all over Slovenia, when we finally went to those extreme parts of Slovenia, to those less developed and looking for solutions, however, to provide more developmental opportunities for those most underdeveloped parts of Slovenia. And on our big mouths, both today's opposition and positional MPs, we have explained that the solution to this is a single decentralisation. When we sat our chairs here in this hall, we also took this work, this decentralisation project, and we all went very, very hard together, and finally, the landscapes were written into the constitution. Today, when there is a dilemma, whether it's a province or not, I'm actually surprised. The Constitution has been written down by a two-thirds majority of the provinces, and today we have doubts about it. Even more. My predecessor or colleague, the mayor of Gorenjska, even said that it was a political game when we adopted such a law that it was a political footnote. Listen, for such a serious law as this, for me one of the most important laws, but I think it is so easy to say that Minister Žagar has worked on this project for many years with his colleagues, that it is the fruit of professional work, that it is the fruit of not least the many coordinations that have taken place during this time between individual political parties. And finally, the law, which is supported by a large number of mayors to talk about this marriage, is wrong. Since I would like to save my colleague at least another minute, perhaps one appeal, my appeal that this law, which is actually only in the general debate, should give him the opportunity to go to further discussion and further debate, I think there is still a great deal of opportunity to come up with those essential solutions. Finally, let us also think about not voting on this law tomorrow, to vote on Wednesday, I think it is time for Wednesday, to come to some compromise, because my great desire is, not only the desire, the need of the Slovenian population, the need of the Slovenian state is decentralisation, and this decentralisation opens up this law. Let's back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! After seven hours of discussion, I will try to be relatively brief, but I believe that something very important and revolutionary will not be said either. We certainly have an extremely important marriage ahead of us today, but I would not agree with my colleagues when they say that this is a historic day for this Parliament, and I do not know why. In Slovenia we have had a lot more important things to do in history. I hope to say that this law is particularly important for some mayors, for some Members, for some political officials, who will be able to find their jobs on provincial affairs, so that they will be able to wait for their years in front of the room there. However, I think that provincial legislation is different. We have consistently supported this legislation by the Social Democrats, but in the sense that legislation is good and fair. When I listen to debaters and colleagues, I could share these discussions in some four sets. One debate is really those who know, I will say local self-government, those who believe in the provinces. The second set is those who zealously advocate the need to adopt this provincial legislation for personal reasons. Thirdly, according to the directives, they are central to or against their opinions. The fourth set, which I belong to, is that I advocate the need to reorganise Slovenia, to distribute evenly, but not under all conditions. And the main condition is that good legislation has been made. Unfortunately, this legislation, which we are witnessing today, which we have on our benches, I do not think is what would bring a brighter future in our Slovenia. The Group of Social Democrats has already adopted an amendment to the Constitution in this mandate and has thus laid the groundwork for the discussion of the provinces at all. And with this I would like to avoid the obvious that we are not for the equal development of Slovenia, because some say that we are not for people and so on. I don't like these readings, but even from those people who just don't know what it means to the congregations, what local self-government means and who have seen it, I'm going to say things only from this Parliamentary Chamber. I do not accept the obvious or the concerns of the President of the Government and some government politicians that better adopt legislation is such a bad one, and then we will correct it. That seems unfair, irresponsible, and very bad to me. After all, we have adopted municipal legislation for more than ten years because of such decisions, including previous governments, and we do not have the best today. And if I look at it globally, I'd say that the Land Financing Act is poorly prepared, it doesn't have an autonomous source. There will be much more to be done here to reach such a Financing Act that all the provinces, all fourteen provinces, will be in an equivalent position. There are also many questions about jurisdiction. Specific tasks to be carried out by the provinces will need to be defined. We do not yet know these specific tasks. We don't know what's going to happen to the public services of the provinces, we don't know what's going to happen to the municipal company, we don't know what's going to happen to culture. And I could even list it. Finally, let me say that I don't want to illustrate this legislation with one simple river, but when you see the light in the tunnel, you think it's light, and then you see that the tree train that brings you across the street. And I think this legislation is something like that. It will be necessary to sit down and discuss that we will be able to give the Social Democrats a vote in favour. In this case, Matjaž Han will not give this vote for such legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry. It is difficult today to be left unscathed when we hear that some who have doubts about the proposals made by the provincial legislation are preventing citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia living in certain environments from living better. It is difficult to hear that Members who have doubts about this subject will find it difficult to look people in the eye because we are against them living better. These, in my view, are unnecessary disqualifications. Whether we are obliged to obtain these findings because we are asking and having doubts about those questions that we have not received the correct answers to in the present procedure, for which, I do not say, there has been much work done. My fellow Members from the parliamentary group have already said that we have been asking a lot of questions about meeting but very little harmonisation. And that we're in a phase today when you're saying that it's still possible to fix everything so that the wolf will be full and the goat will be whole. I really don't know how to calculate, and if we're talking about this, and you're telling us that I'm going to have a hard time looking into people's eyes, what it's going to bring to my compatriots, some fellow citizens from the environment that I come from. Tell me on which basis to rely, and I say, "We will live better because we will establish 14 provinces. Only because of that fact."? We have read your coalition contract, where it says that reducing development differences between regions will become a fundamental guide for national development tasks and will be integrated into all sectoral policies and coordination will be carried out by the Minister without a charter in charge of local self-government. Why doesn't the government offer these data, these analyses, and tell us what has happened in three and a half years on all sectoral policies for me to live better? Why don't you tell us today when the provinces will be, but these segments will be much better? Why don't we get these answers with analysis, with arguments? But we get the impression that because we're asking the question of doubting these things, that it's going to happen on its own, that of course we don't want people to live better. Decentralisation is not only a division of Slovenia into individual regions. Essentially, it takes more than that. I ask myself: How is it possible to argue the financial neutrality of the establishment of the provinces if a simple calculation shows that if 572 saints are, and if the funding system of the saints is about the same as that of the municipality, where it is possible to be awarded up to 15% of the mayor's salary, it shows that it will bring in the grave if it is the same model, but we expect that it will not be significantly different from that of the municipalities, within a range of up to 100 new values of these revenues. How can we, if you put this together, say that it will be neutral and that the resources we bring there will be devoted only to development activities. And here are our dilemmas that you don't answer by saying, "The starting point." The only starting point was the existing division in statistical regions with two additional regions. The simulations should answer exactly what those developmental breakthroughs are, what the breakthroughs are for us to live better when we set up these landscapes. That's a key question. The key question is not a name that is very important, but the key question is how regional development will contribute to achieving the life span at the time of birth in Pomura as it does in the most developed part of Slovenia. That's the question. However, the answers should be included in what you wrote down in regional coherent development, which is that regional development perspectives will be integrated into all areas of different areas. And here are the key moments at which we should get answers today. And the profession warns that such division does not give the best possible development perspective. That's what the profession says. And our colleagues told you that. And of course, these doubts raise the question of how to upgrade the matter in such a way that, if we move it to a decision a few days ahead, we can get these answers. Of course, we are prepared to compromise to support such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Blacky Bell has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u90	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! It is undeniable that if any of the projects we have talked about recently are supra-party and cross-party frameworks, this is a project for regionalisation or the introduction of landscapes in the Republic of Slovenia. It is not surprising, therefore, that the views of individual Members differ from one party to another and that they do not fully follow the common general position of the individual parliamentary group. I think that's normal. It is only a project that is highly entrenched in local environments, where implementation will be shown through a larger or smaller degree of development of individual parts and thus of the whole country. Since it is a project that we all agree on at the principle level, or 95%, that is important for the further development of Slovenia and that it needs to be carefully considered, it is also right to discuss the matter in this way. I must say that I am pleased with certain debates, but I do not understand them, because I think that a number of issues that are being raised again have been cleared up in previous discussions, as well as in those coordinations that Mr Minister has had with fellow Members of the individual parliamentary groups. Surely some Members in individual parliamentary groups are in a particularly difficult position when they will have to decide on a complex project and where they predict a different decision than we have witnessed two or three years ago when they were themselves signatories to the law for one of the regions in the Republic of Slovenia. The law, which, on the other hand, did not have any specific substantive implications or delegation of powers, but mainly referred to an area that had been connected locally with the municipalities in that area and wanted to establish a regional link, as well as in the State criterion. For this reason, it is right that we do not hurry and that we are not too hasty in our decisions. However, it would be very wrong if all the energy and all the effort that has been put into this project were rejected because of arguments that are not. So allow me a few things that I think are worth saying on this occasion. When it came to amending the Constitution a year and a half ago, it was possible, some say, to make a mistake that, when a high degree of political consensus was reached, the borders, seats and the names of the provinces were not determined. This would probably have been done if it had been possible to do so then. But obviously this step was not possible and because of this the project was going forward, it did not stop, it was initiated and on this basis, I think it was running along the most democratic and broad path as possible. I assess that all the many consents and opinions which have been forwarded have been tried by the Minister to the greatest extent possible to take them into account and to align them both with the expectations of the areas as well as with those public financial constraints which make such or other decisions conditional. And as with any serious project, here too we have to ask about the advantages, weaknesses and dangers. We all somehow understand or agree on the benefits of faster development if regionalisation occurs, if the needs of the environment are perceived more closely, easier to realize and so on. This regionalisation will not in itself resolve the differences overnight. Those who think this way are wrong. We have also now had the opportunity, within the framework of the law on promoting regional development and through many other mechanisms, to influence the fact that we would not become richer and less poorer, and somehow we did not know how to take advantage of these opportunities in the right way. But the impulse would be given, and this process would somehow begin to unfold. Thus, it is undeniably a major advantage in view of the current situation. What are the weaknesses of this project? The more I analyzed everything I've heard so far, the more I wrote myself a big question here. Because other than some disagreements in individual environments arising from relatively emotional moments about where the seat will be, how things will be named, and so on, what weaknesses of the project have not been detected. And the dangers? Indisputably, and we all agree on that, the greatest danger is the expansion of the administrative apparatus. The danger of any such or other reform and the way this doesn't happen, I think it's an approximation to the single system, because I think this would make it easier for us to do what we set ourselves with it. If we go to these partials, maybe for others a little bit less, but for some very sensitive things are about naming. There was a lot of talk about the name of individual provinces. And this is where Primorska comes out the most. There has been a very broad civil initiative, a very strong feeling in this connection, and I must say that no one takes anything. The coastal area has never been in the administrative-political sense of the province. Never. Always in a regional sense. We always said we were going to Primorsko, as we say we were going to Notranjska, Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Štyarsko, Koroška, Prekmurje. In a geographical sense, this cannot be taken away from anyone because it exists forever and forever. I've never heard anyone say he's going to Kranjska or Central Slovenia. But many of them go to these provinces, as I mentioned earlier. It is also unclear to me why, during the first attempt, where the political placement of this province of Primorski in this law was given, in this text, which the Minister gave to the public hearing of the municipalities on 14 May 2007, where it was written by the Primorska Region, why this matter was then transformed into Istria-Kraška in this material which we received for treatment. I don't know why. I have to say, it's not my fault. In the Gazette of the Municipality of Koper, Mr Boris Popovic wrote: "I believe that this was the case in Illyrian Bistrica, where people with even more than a plebiscite majority decided for the Primorska Region. I think the offended SDS Member Zvonimir Černač of the Permanent Lion has a share in this unacceptable new name, and I hope that you will listen to us from the President of the Government and the National Assembly." He never apologized for that statement. I had nothing to do with it. And if someone else doesn't table an amendment to that, I'll file it myself. But I do not allow myself to be so mutilated by me and my colleagues, for here through these words and through these lies I am not only muddy myself, but also my colleagues from the SDS. So, once again, the Maritime Members' Club, which met in Vipava in December, took a very clear and unified position on this. And I don't think there's any doubt about that. I'd like to say one more thing about Primorska. It is absurd that these findings appear after this government has proposed and the National Assembly has adopted and placed September 15th as a holiday of the accession of Primorska to our country. I think it's one of the weights of this concept, and I don't think it's good to make some inappropriate conclusions at this point. With regard to Notranjska, I have before me a letter of intent signed on 6 June 2003 by the mayors of the municipalities of Bloke, Cerknica, Logatec, Loška dolina, Pivka and Postojna, where they wrote that, in their desire to deepen and expand mutual cooperation and the implementation of joint projects, they express their intention to establish the Notranj-Krač region, that this region consists of the municipalities of Bloke, Cerknica, Loška dolina, Logatec, Pivka and Postojna and that these signatories are open to cooperate with all others who wish to join this link. This link from 6.6.2003 continued in the context of the preparation of the Regional Development Programme 2007-2013, which is successfully implemented. For this reason, it is not clear to me personally why the first four of these signatories signed another letter of intent some time ago without giving up or disassociating themselves from it. But I have a feeling that it's only because some seat has been signed up somewhere that someone doesn't like. Of course, it would be very wrong for us to be guided by such matters when adopting provincial legislation when deciding on this project. I think that there is something more to the draft regional legislation and that the discussions that are yet to take place, I am confident, must be based on substantive grounds. Once again, it would be very wrong if we did not take advantage of this moment if we did not listen to all those proposals that have already been tabled and if we did not finally reach the broadest possible level of consensus for the adoption of this legislation. It would be very wrong for legislation to be adopted by a minimum majority. I think that this would be a poor journey to regionalisation of Slovenia, and this is not what I personally want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I support the establishment of the provinces myself. Why? Because I am coming more far and I know that when the province is supposed to be, it is not as developed as it is in Ljubljana and in other parts of Slovenia. This graph we got tells us that we need to do it. It's clear from these numbers. Of course, it is also important that the provinces do not bring significantly higher costs to citizens and to all taxpayers. Such a model of landscapes, as it is now designed, is intended to bring personnel, to bring funds and powers. That seems crucial and important to me. But the fact is, there's always going to be someone who's going to object to something. I'd like to see a little something different myself, but it just doesn't work. Life is full of compromises, politics too, and if we are to reach the landscapes, we need to confirm them. When I analyze things, I see that it's significantly more positive than negative. It is particularly positive that we have the opportunity to make about the same rapid development throughout Slovenia for all Slovenes and Slovenians. That's the whole point. This is why I support the provinces, the environment from which I come, I believe that most people support the province. I will also try to convince my fellow Member that because most people support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'm running out of time. The fact is that the organisation's story should begin with this act, which is here today, and not almost complete it. It is important to me that the country's allocation to the provinces, regions, as we call them, is such that it does not essentially require additional resources within the framework of public finances and the capacity of this country. And second of all. Regions or landscapes must be designed in such a way that they are able to carry out their tasks autonomously, especially from the country of competence transferred. To achieve this, one of the key criteria and conditions is the critical mass of the province. It's a key criterion. And as the most important, how people feel most, they accept this region, which has now been stifled by the proposal for a law. Where it is largely not accepted or with some arguments they wish to reshape, this should be allowed in the second reading. Otherwise, the story at the start is lost. Just a word about the Notran region. What I said last is also part of the substance of the Notranj region, which has caused friction all the time. It is only reasonable that we continue to listen to people, as follows, if nothing else, from the letter of intent of practically all mayors and of the three Members [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , from Snow White to Toast or Grmada. [[...]] This is the key if we want Slovenia's division into regions to be successful in the provinces, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. It's true, we have a key law ahead of us. I must say that I somehow accept the thinking or decisions of those who say they will vote against this law, which says that in Slovenia we do not need the landscapes, which say that we will not solve this big developmental difference by doing so in another way. I didn't hear them. I accept that, as I said. But somehow I cannot accept the position of those who say that these laws are bad. So bad they can't go to another treatment. Somehow we all find that only the Ministry of Local Self-Government has worked long enough to prepare solutions, there has been much coordination. And today, this stuff is right here in front of us. Those of us who have monitored this all the time, even studied solutions, can say that I can't see, I can't imagine anyone coming up with a better or such an ideal solution that someone doesn't have any comments. And somehow I also appeal to the honourable Members and Members of the opposition to agree that this legislation is suitable for further consideration. However, I also appeal to the Ministry that, at this intermediate stage, in the second phase, we complement individual laws, because I believe that they are not bad enough to put legislation in a drawer, and in the coming years, someone would come, or in the coming year, with a better, ideal solution. I'm also heartbroken when I think of Prekmurje and the rest of the provinces, and when you look at these tables that were presented here today. And I can't imagine decentralisation any different than that what is being done in Ljubljana today, to put it on the ground. Nor do I imagine - but now with regard to the financing law - that in some way we will resolve the fact that all 14 provinces, or the leadership, or the provincial council, will be absolutely satisfied. I mentioned earlier that there are too many development differences in Slovenia. Too big. We've missed the train or we're just missing it, and then we're gonna take this project down, and we're gonna have even bigger problems. We will be able to talk about a funding model, such a model that everyone is satisfied, only when we give the first step through when we reduce these differences. It'll probably be easier that way. But I think that at least part of it can be mitigated by what the SD Group has to suggest that something else can be corrected there. But I like to joke a lot, but that's the truth, it's easy to say, let's raise income, I don't know, now I think it's 25 to 30, or 35%. That's what my son told me this morning, give me 30, 35 euros instead. But that's the truth. And funding is not as easy as some imagine. It's not easy. Just because these differences are so big. And if there will be no solidarity in the financing of the provinces, as there will be in the congregations, then we have done nothing. Then we will not eliminate these differences of development. I'm gonna leave some time for my classmates, and I'm gonna get this over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Bručan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u98	Good-bye, everybody! When I listen to our debate, I see that on the start all the debaters begin with the idea that we need legislation to also need the landscapes, but then everything breaks up and goes in a very different direction. I think that some of the debaters do not have very good intentions in this regard. I am convinced that the legislation drawn up by the Ministry under the leadership of Minister Žagar is actually a good, good basis for debate in the future. And if it happens now that this good proposal is not voted for further consideration, I think that those who start speaking with the support of the provinces can step back a little bit and think about it. Imagine not only you, but also the electorate, who will see that there is a disciplinarian between what you say and what you do. All the possibilities for certain changes in the legislation itself, in the very proposed laws are still ahead of us, and if you do not vote for these laws, then I can say that you have already closed the door to the provinces for the next few years. And I want the provinces in Slovenia to be established to act to help and to work for all people in Slovenia. Many things need to be said in such positions, sometimes in such positions, to be swallowed up at home. At the beginning of the drafting of this legislation, I was alone among the drafters, and I was very excited that at the primary level the health system would work and be organised at the level of the regions, not at the level of the municipalities. But the thing is, then she turned out to be completely utopian. There was no consensus where, in fact, one would expect it most, but in any way, I realized that it was simply not feasible and I gave up on it. And so I would also like you, from those in the opposition who are now hiding behind this, as if the law were poorly prepared and therefore you are not going to correct it in further processing. I call on you to actually adopt such laws for the benefit of the Slovenians, the citizens of Slovenia, and to correct them in future with common strength at those points where this is still possible. The current proposal is the result of compromises that were possible at the time of drafting legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! I would start my debate by saying that, despite the fact that I got a hint from somewhere that I shouldn't talk for two months, I still advertised the importance of the topic. The landscapes are such an important issue that we have to work with full steam and energy on provincial legislation, on the adoption of provincial legislation. In particular, due to the expectations of our people on the ground, because they have grown tired of the centralisations of the country in all these years and expect a lot of decentralisation, because in this centralised system they have been deprived of many things, especially for the most consistent development. Thus, some parts of Slovenia were far behind. The province-building project has broad support. I would like to stress that every day we receive a message of support from several centres, stressing that future provincial centres, future provincial organisations already in the process of building some programmes, also want to be established as soon as possible. Perhaps our experience from Gorenjska, where we have already prepared a whole range of activities in the Gorenjska development centre, the Gorenjska development programme under the heading "Gorenjska goes up" and we have actively participated in various working groups, most members from Gorenjska. I myself participated in a group with my colleague Saiovic and my colleague Lahovnik, and I would particularly like to stress, given that my colleague Lahovnik is from another region, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'd like to commend his efforts. If he actively participated in the Gorenjska Krajina development project, then we must also have the same energy and the same will to support [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, Minister with colleagues! Dear Members and Members! There are very few minutes left available, so I will actually try to focus on the proposal of the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes and on the process itself and the formation of this provincial package a little less words. But I would agree with the debaters that as far as regionalism and the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia are concerned, that we are more or less all of the same opinions, that it is necessary to do so, and in what way is the second thing. As far as the Law on the Establishment and Establishment of Areas is concerned, it would be Article 10, which is the establishment of the Kamnik-Zavska Region. On such a landscape, I myself have been in this House for many years, it has never been said in all these debates and preparations for the introduction of regionalism. I think it's a hybrid creation, that Kamnicani and Zasavčani have very little in common, or those congregations that are supposed to form the future Kamnik-Zavšev Region. This is how we hear voices from the stone-domestic and moral areas and from the saviour area that we have nothing in common. That we do not have a common membership of this future province, that we do not have common traditions, that we do not have any common basic infrastructure connections and that we do not have any projects or investments in this area. The proposals discussed in the municipal council in Hrastnik went in a different direction. We have twice given our position to both the government's service and the relevant parliamentary committee. Both times, in the first version, we supported the Government's basic proposal in the second proposal, and when the solution came to Kamnik-Zavaska story, we strongly opposed it in Hrastnik. We all want to get to the provinces in some way, but those that will in some way be financially autonomous, which will actually stimulate development in local communities and reduce development differences are not a dilemma. But I do not think that this package of provincial legislation is leading us towards this goal, so I will not support this package at this stage. In my opinion, it is bad, and in my opinion, it is also a poor basis for upgrading. Minister, if you expect me to transfer the municipality of Domžale, Mengeš, Trzin, Moravča, Lukovica to another province in some way, then you are wrong. I think it's a matter of preparers to make the right proposals. Will we then ask for the opinion of the congregation or the congregation council about Jerič’s amendment, or do they agree with that solution, and only then will we move on to acceptance? I think that this package is insufficiently conceived that it is necessary to take time to establish in Slovenia such a level of regionalism to actually achieve what we all want: to reduce the development differences not only between municipalities and regions but also within different areas and to ensure that this decision is decentralised in some way. As far as technical law is concerned, because I think we have talked more or less about complete legislation in the debate, about the whole package because of course we also wanted to see how we wrote the unimaginable solutions. [[...]] One of the tasks of future provinces is to close mines, including those governed by individual laws. And everywhere we wrote that, among other things, the assets of these mines, which are being transferred to the provincial level, at the saviour mine or at the Trbovlje and Hrastnik mines of this transfer of assets from 1.1.2009, not only because the mine is still functioning in some way, we are digging up coal and it will continue to do so, I hope, for some time, but also because of other things. I think that's bad. This task would [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This debate today is very interesting, but at times it is also characteristic of the state of spirit in Slovenian politics today. If we start with yesterday's statements that we have had time to hear through Slovenian media, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who said that we are essentially the ones who will oppose this legislation, some kind of enemy of the country, that we are responsible for uneven development in Slovenia if we reject this law. And then, if we've heard some of the others today that you say, the minister has worked with his expert team for years and has come before you today with this law, which, of course, is professionally enhanced, etc. If the Minister, and I believe he has made a sincere effort, came with such a law before the National Assembly today, then his efforts in some way are regrettable, because this law that we are witnessing to him today does not fit and does not satisfy some of the normal professional parameters that should suit them such an important law. It has been said that the mayors support solutions such as those in this law. Yes, many mayors support it, and many mayors do not support it. Let me just mention that as regards the region of Gorenje, as I have mentioned many times before, many municipalities in the Upper Essava region are consistently opposed to this law and say that if the law went to fourteen provinces that are not actually relevant to Slovenia, then we see no reason why we should not add another region that is supposed to be the Upper Essava region. What do we have, Kranjska Gora, Bled, Jesenice, Bohinj, along with Kranj and Sorski Polje, if you want? You said today, Mr. Minister, that we have twelve regions and two sub-regions. This indicates that you do not come from some principled viewpoint, what provinces we want to have, which criteria are generally valid. Then we should have given this law another address. I don't know how you understand this notion of two sub-regions. Probably something that's not entirely in line with what we're talking about. Some have spoken today in the debate, today is a historic day when we adopt this law in the first phase. Yeah, what in God's name is history day about? If we are talking about the quality of this law, then I assure you that we have already had several worse laws before us in this mandate, and that this cannot be a historic day as well. Some of you say that if you are sincere about democracy and decentralisation, you will vote in favour of this law. That's the attitude, I'm sorry, it's rude. And it is unseemly especially in terms of advocacy for democracy, decentralisation of decision-making about the country. Yeah. We're for democracy, we're for decentralisation. We have also initiated a constitutional change process. However, we are not for any decentralisation and for any regions and for any powers or competences of these regions. Above all, we are not for the motto of this law: Share and rule. This does not please us, and we certainly oppose it. The text itself, or the explanation of this law, states that ten of the 14 planned provinces had serious comments about the number, the boundaries, the name of the individual provinces. And of course, what's the point? It's an irrational building you're offering us. We'll have 14 presidents of the provincial councils and at least 20 of their deputies. We'll have about 530 to 570 provincial saints there. A lot of people say, "They won't be professionals." No, they're not gonna be professionals, but they're gonna be getting meetings, getting miles, wasting their working hours where they're working, and so on. We'll have 14 heads of provincial administrations, so many deputies, at least so many referees, secretaries and ficussians, if you want. There is no valid explanation for what you are offering. And at the very least, we should present ourselves to Members who are responsible for our work and responsible also to decide what this actually means in a financial sense. There is no financial valuation in this law. This, of course, is very controversial. It is essential that this reform should be assessed at least roughly financially. On what basis are the claims that these and such provinces will be successful in development and that they will ensure the balanced and accelerated development of Slovenia as a whole? There is no such argument. See, even in reforming local self-government at first level, we must be aware that we have a large number of municipalities that are financially insufficiencies. I recall a report from the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe prepared in 2001 on the situation in Slovenia, where it was expressly stated that Slovenia should strive to make small municipalities that are unreasonablely small to unite and thus be more financially self-sufficient. I am afraid, or I am sure, that this time we are also going to such a strong decentralisation and the establishment of such regions, which are already in some way financially insufficiencies. You speak in writing that this is a matter of alignment with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. That's not true. This European Charter of Local Self-Government, if not another, claims at least that the provinces must also have at least one source of financial resources. It is somehow not possible to find out from this package of legislation that we have before us today. Some of you tell us that when we adopted changes to the Constitution concerning this regionalisation, you accepted these changes with a fig in your pocket. You certainly can't tell us this, because it was the opposition Members who signed the request to change the constitution. And we have always argued, for example, what has always been, since the beginning of Demos' government, that the opposite is that in the Republic of Slovenia it is not possible to count, given the different interests and conditions and conditions, that municipal men and municipalities would be able to agree with each other on a self-regulatory basis in which regions they want to connect. So if I want to be specific. After the previous constitution or under previous provisions, regions could be established if there was political will in the municipalities. Apparently, she wasn't there. So today wave with an argument, "You know, the mayors are all in favour," I feel completely unfounded. If that's what they're for, then we could've set up these provinces earlier. But if I cut this thing short. I do not deny that you had a good purpose and that for this good purpose you have also studied a whole range of things, which means that all of this can come to an end. But this law that we have before us today is not acceptable to many of us. But I assure you that we will support those laws and the law that will bring more rationality, which will be more backed by actual arguments. And when you come with such a law, we will support it. But this is unacceptable to us, and we cannot be in favour of the fact that the laws are "tapping" on stock, but what will happen to them when they start to apply, or whether we should even start to change them before they even apply, but we cannot agree to this, because it also seems inappropriate for us to act as a legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Nicely greeted! We still have a good purpose, not that we just had it, as was said before me. The aim is decentralisation, more equitable development, bringing people's administration closer to decision-making, and I wonder who could vote against such good intentions. However, I do not imagine that by dividing Slovenia into provinces, all of this can be achieved, especially depending on the people who are capable, on the financial resources, on the tasks. Nor do I imagine that, like now, it is only right that everything is practically registered from Ljubljana, that there are the same interests with Ljubljana or somewhere in Kostel, White Krajina, in Gorička or elsewhere, or that it is just as much invested or similar in these places, which are significantly more lagging behind for the central region. Legislation is in the first phase, if it gets the green light, on my part it will, it can get better. Even when it's alive, it can be added, it can be changed. I must say, however, that I have not received any substantial comments from my territory that they are satisfied with the current projected size of the municipalities involved in the Dolenj-Belkan region. But I got or saw that some disagree with the name. I think we can talk about the name or that it can be left to most democratic people in the province. As it is said, I myself will support this legislation, and I hope that it will truly serve those purposes for which it is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I would like to say my attitude, and partly the attitude of the Group of Social Democrats to some of the issues that are now the subject of this seven-day debate. We still claim and do not consent to any other accusation that the Social Democrats are interested in decentralisation and regionalisation of Slovenia. At the same time, we argue that we, the entire National Assembly, should be responsible enough not to adopt legislation that is not well prepared enough to ensure these objectives in an appropriate manner. It is not possible to assume that we are adopting a law that is not ideal, but that we will correct it tomorrow, it is not possible to assume that we will do so in a second reading, not in a law that is adopted for the two-thirds majority of Members present and Members, because we know that if there is no will on the part of the coalition, these two-thirds majority are not, and we are at a disadvantage if we adopt the law at first reading as if a common agreement were to be reached. We have been through the whole process of drafting legislation, and here we have collaborated with the Minister for Local Self-Government, who has been open to talks, who has been less able to incorporate our suggestions into the laws, stressed where the fundamental issues we want to address are. And for us there is still the question of whether it is really realistic that we are going to the local elections with this September, especially because the integration of local and national elections, I think, is not necessarily the best solution. For us, it is still a matter of how the presidents of the provincial councils should be elected. We believe that all questions of jurisdiction have not yet been clarified. We are convinced that the intended territorialisation of the provinces is designed primarily for the purpose of obtaining the required number of votes in the National Assembly, but not according to historical or development logic, and therefore we do not believe that the legislation adopted will save development. If we wanted to save development, they could be solved not only through greater motivation of people on the ground but also through appropriate national policies. However, it is only possible to motivate people if they are provided with the necessary resources, which are not or are insufficient at this time, and if citizens and citizens in the regions are truly connected in such a way that they have sufficient common interests to provide them with. Therefore, I would like to say to you two, if there is any serious proposal that is discussed from yesterday's meeting of Members and Members of the Coalition, which we officially know nothing about, then I must say that the proposal that a vote be postponed for a day means nothing to us. We do not expect to support him, nor do we expect to make a different decision. Such a postponement for a day is not enough to allow us to agree on important substantive issues, but if we postpone for an indefinite period of time, we are happy and ready to continue to coordinate and hope that we will arrive at harmonisation. And the last. There were also many questions about the referendum and many misunderstandings. One of the options for the referendum that we are discussing is also to identify results from the envisaged provinces.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I think I still owe some answers to these questions and developments. The fact is - and this is also discussed by indicators - that not that we have development at this time in Slovenia, but we estimate that development will be significantly more even and that it will receive the greatest acceleration in all those environments where this level of development is the lowest at this time. This, however, means development for the whole of Slovenia. This means concrete resolution of concrete projects that go beyond municipal borders, but are not classic projects of national importance, such as railways. If I illustrate, say, developmental axes, it's a typical project of this kind, say, economic centers. And I must say that there has not been support in field visits for the drafting of this legislation only by politicians like those who are transferring - so I am talking about the local policy of municipal councillors and mayors - my opinions from their municipal, local environments, but also to a large extent the support of the economy, because they are aware that some things can be significantly easier to resolve. Now, as regards legislation and the whole package of legislation in general, I must say that this package has been on the table for quite some time and that this deadline for cooperation in finalising this legislation has been offered, but some views have changed at this time as to how the law should be drawn up. Even if we remember correctly at the very beginning, when the constitutional amendment was adopted, then it was the most important content and, of course, the content went forward first, and then the very division of the provinces, which results in both professional and political developments throughout this period - not only in this mandate, but also in previous mandates. Now, as regards this development moment, which is also reflected in the scope of the financial framework, it is necessary to actually read these laws in a package, as has been the desire and demand, and I repeat once again that the package has been on the table for quite some time now, but that there is also a need for discussion and a debate can only be held in the National Assembly in the way that we can do it. And also procedures in the National Assembly can probably only be conducted in the way they are managed, but of course all additions can also be properly agreed and coordinated before formal proceedings. And our wish has been all along, and I have tried several times to reach a higher level of consensus for this second package before it was accepted by the government. However, after that first package of this desire to harmonise it before that, there was no such thing. Probably also because it can be said that the Government is a proponent of this legislation, but the whole process has also been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the constitutional amendments, i.e. through the search for an opinion by the municipalities. This is not the last change in the Constitution. Now it is possible to correct these changes here in the National Assembly. I must say that, with regard to this law, which is currently under discussion, I am sure that the process so far has cleared up these issues that are on the table. I agree that the issues are open, especially as regards the stone-saw region and perhaps some others, but I believe that as many as there are, they can also be closed through cooperative work and, in this regard, taken a step forward. However, it was necessary to conduct a procedure, where it was necessary to begin and through the process, through several iterations, to reach a final solution. In the meantime, we're at this stage as we are. And let's be correct, as far as these solutions and the restrictions that we've discussed are concerned, this is that this maximum of 14 landscapes has been practically the consensus of the entire policy. I think that it is necessary to be corrected not only in this mandate but in previous mandates. I will no longer repeat who has promoted all of this, that we are in these salvations and, lastly, also in relation to human identity. I think there's a great degree of identification here, too. It is true, however, that when we formulated this final proposal, we have tried, in particular as regards these smallest areas, namely Zasavja and Notranjska, to round up these areas in connection with some areas from central Slovenia and thus to bring these regions closer to each other, even in size and also with the ideas and wishes of the Ljubljana area on independent Ljubljana or substantially reduced Ljubljana. Once again, this part is certainly possible, in my opinion, even round and I repeat again - what I said is that we probably will not find the ideal solutions, so the solution that would be written to everyone perfectly on the skin. Still whenever this debate is here again - and I agree with what Mr Gaber said earlier - that some of these issues that are now open will also be open in the coming mandates. And even then, these issues will have to be resolved by a two-thirds majority, because, through a debate that has been going on for more than a year, I think, it has been almost two years, and these issues have been cleared up and brought to this stage. Now there are some specific issues, including those related to the issue of development. We have, of course, made financial assessments on the projection of this proposal, which is here before you. These financial projections were forwarded to all parliamentary groups, both to the positions and to the opposition. And if you look at them, because these six laws need to be read with this decision of the Government, which was adopted at the 2009 budget projection, then about 50% of the resources that are in a smaller proportion within the appropriate spending - because the appropriate spending is primarily intended for the execution of current tasks, i.e. statutory tasks - are entirely those five on average 25% of the corporate income tax, and also the European part of the funds that are regionally directed at the moment, that is about 50%, are exclusively development-investment funds. Compared to the national level, this result is significantly more favourable when it comes to the projection of the transfer of tasks down with financial resources between the allocation of mandatory or reserved funds for current tasks and the free, that is to say, development-investment, for the benefit of the provinces. This is an important development opportunity that I think must be taken advantage of in any case. When these funding issues are also raised from the point of view of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. If we do not make the landscapes, then the trends that are evident and which follow from these statistics produced by statistics and which are exact will come into play, that we will have increasingly dependent municipalities. That's a fact. Provinces, if we make this move, if we are to ensure faster development in all other environments through this landscape shift at this stage, then there will also be shifts in tax collection and tax supply, and then we can also get a more favourable picture at that other segment, that is, at the first level of local self-government. And these things need to be taken into account. And when we talk about European standards, as well as the financing of local self-government, then we must be aware that the link between financial resources and tasks is important in terms of economics, but that there are very important and express elements, such as solidarity, equality before the law and, finally, ensuring comparable living conditions in all environments. And that's what this is all about in the country's legislation and the landscape project. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And I once again appeal that in this general debate the laws be supported in order to harmonise them to the next reading, which is what can be done. I'm still assessing, not least, because we've done a lot of this already, and of course we're getting to the provinces because [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Friday, 1 February 2008, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on free will units for first-party love within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister Dr. Ivan Jagar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. This is the second law and package of these three laws, which are now under general consideration. It is the Law on Election Units for Elections in the First Regional Council and this law is technically closely linked to the previous law, the law establishing the provinces. In fact, the borders of the provinces in some way define within them electoral units for elections to individual provincial councils. This law is also, in my opinion, extremely important. In fact, when we talk about the provinces, when we talk about centralism, we want to go around or find solutions so that we don't get so many and so many provincial centralisms instead of one national centralism. And by this law, by evenly dividing the constituencies, which means ensuring equal representation from the entire region of the provinces within the provincial worlds, this problem is largely solved. And that is what the preparation of this law led us to do. By noting that it is not possible to compare the number of electors of the constituencies between the individual provinces, but within the individual provinces. Because if we were to try to compare between different provinces, in some cases we could actually have a large number of saints and still have some relationships. By also using areas within individual provinces, which are already being used for elections. So in those provinces, future ones, of course, where we have a great fragmentation of the congregations, we have taken the borders of the congregations for election units. In those areas where there are fewer municipalities where there are larger municipalities, there is also a division of constituencies across the borders of the fourth and the local communities, in particular in terms of ensuring as equal representation as possible. It is perfectly ideal that these numbers cannot be produced, or these solutions cannot be implemented. In doing so, it is also likely that some geographical areas should be taken into account. But to the greatest extent possible, we have tried to take account of this uniform representation through the electoral units that are now being used, namely the municipalities, the fourth and the local communities, and have tried to achieve this even representation in the holy future. It should also be noted that many of these questions are also raised, that it is not possible to provide individual municipalities of polling stations through this, that it may also be hypothetically possible for an individual congregation to lose its saints in a particular provincial world. However, it is important to be aware that in this case we are not talking about municipal elections, but we are talking about provincial elections. We're not talking about the first level of local self-government, but we're talking about the second level of local self-government. However, by the fact that the interests of the municipalities in terms of the formulation of their opinions are, and also here, a particular effort has been made in terms of a solution that enables municipalities to participate actively in decision-making in those cases where these decisions concern within the provinces of each municipality, and on the other hand that the municipalities cannot block certain development projects, these solutions are sought through the holy municipalities, where the mayors are generally represented as representatives of the municipalities. That is why, in this place, I propose that the honourable assembly hold a debate and also confirm this law in the general debate. As is possible and it is also reasonable to reshape and find appropriate solutions where the issues raised in the previous law are raised, it is also appropriate to supplement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec, you have the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello again! The bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council sets out the number of electoral units and members elected by individual electoral units in the first elections to the provincial councils. Of course, we are most interested in and throngs how many members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities we can love in the first world. Of course, we are trying to ensure that in the first composition of the provincial councils, the province, which includes municipalities with national mixed areas, the largest possible number of members of the provincial councils of representatives of the Italian or Hungarian national communities, and that these be represented as evenly as possible. In addition, we want the first election of members of the provincial councils of representatives of the Italian or Hungarian national communities not to be determined by one constituency covering the entire province, but by several constituencies, which would ensure the fullest possible level of representation. For example, smaller representatives or candidates from smaller communities would also have the opportunity to be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues. We are next in line with a package of provincial legislation or one of today's three provincial laws, namely the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council. So, dear colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, after a broad discussion, we will make substantial progress in making decisions in accordance with our beliefs. We are confident that we have processed a lot of positive content today, and I am sure that we will also be dealing with the law that we are now considering, perhaps even some. What exactly is the purpose of the law? The purpose of the law is to determine the number and area of the electoral units and the number of members elected by individual electoral units in the first elections to the provincial councils. If the Act on the Establishment of Landscapes provides for fourteen provinces in its contents, this means that the draft Law on Election Units accurately defines the names of these provinces, which are harmonised and of the content of the above-mentioned Act. The bill sets out the electoral units for the first provincial elections, and the provinces will then be able to regulate this area on their own as provided for in the Proposal for a Law on the Provinces. So it's about this law that the legislator prescribes these elections in the first provincial councils. And allow me to expose all the provinces, namely, the Celia province is divided into seven constituency units in which 45 saints are elected. The valley-Belkan province is divided into five constituency units in which 37 provincial saints are elected. The province of Gorenje is divided into seven constituencies in which 47 provincial saints are elected. The region is divided into five constituencies in which 37 provincial saints are elected. The Istrian-Karska province is divided into five constituencies - 41 provincial saints are elected. It should be pointed out here that there are two representatives of the national community. The Kamnik-Saw province is divided into four constituencies, in which 39 saints are elected. The province of Carinthia is divided into five constituencies in which 35 provincial saints are elected. The province of Ljubljana is divided into ten constituencies in which 55 saints are elected. The Notran province is divided into four constituencies in which 35 provincial saints are elected. The province of Posavina is divided into 3 constituencies in which 35 provincial saints are elected. The Prekmur-Pearl province is divided into seven constituencies. There's also a specialty here. 41 provincial councillors are elected, of which two representatives of the national communities, such as the predecessor, have already specifically warned me about this. The Ptuj-Armor Region is divided into five constituencies in which 37 provincial saints are elected. The Savini-Shales province is divided into 3 constituencies, in which 33 provincial saints are elected. And as the 14th Styria province is divided into eight constituencies, in which 49 provincial saints are elected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the applicant was based on basic data, where he was taking the basis of the law on the establishment of the provinces, he adequately designed the content and submitted it to the National Assembly as well. This, of course, will be decided by Members and Members in the context of the vote, which, as we say, is expected to be in the course of our vote tomorrow. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this is one of the laws to which, in fact, legitimately elected representatives at lower levels of local self-government did not have significant comments. Just one comment came from Prevalj and, of course, this was taken into account in some way. As it is said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He'll be without one S at the end. Only on behalf of the Social Democrats, not the SDS. The bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council is one of a package of so-called provincial legislation that has been less exposed to public debates. For all eyes are or were, as a rule, based only on the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Lands, which the debate had just ended. The applicant shall ensure that the basic principles on the basis of which the areas of the electoral units for the first elections in the regional councils have been defined have been respected in order to ensure the equal representation of the individual areas in the provincial world. It further points out that the provinces can regulate the area themselves, as provided for in the proposal for a law on the provinces. The applicant also considers that electoral units have been formed to the greatest extent into meaningful units that will reflect the interests of the inhabitants in their area. From the opinions and comments forwarded to the National Assembly by the local communities, 18 municipalities, I note that the areas of the constituencies are not designed in accordance with the basic principles to which the applicant refers. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that electoral units are prepared to provide more representatives or saints to some municipalities in the province's world in advance, even some smaller municipalities may be left without a representative in the country's world. In doing so, let me say that we are aware that the provinces are simply not a number of congregations. Under this law, a provincial council will be elected, which, as the highest decision-making authority on all matters within the framework of the rights and duties of the provinces, will later be able to decide on the change of the constituencies; I say'may'. Given that it will take a long time for the provinces to come to life and that they will probably be more involved with themselves in the first half of their activities, we are confident that such electoral units will remain for quite some time in the future. In view of the fact that the Law on the Provinces determines the number of provincial councils and moves between 33 and 55 provincial councillors, it is also interesting to compare how the mandates are allocated in individual provinces by constituency. The mainland was mentioned. For example, in this province, the number of citizens or residents for the election of saints and saints in the constituency ranges between 3859 and 5142. In the first constituency of Celjska krajina, which covers the municipalities of Rogaška Slatina, Rogatec, Kozje, Podčetrtek and Šmarje pri Jelšah, and the number of inhabitants varies between 3268 and 11.165, for example, eight mandates will be distributed. An interesting division of the 37 mandates is also in the Dolenj-Belo Krajina region. In the first constituency of this province, 9 saints will represent 27.084 inhabitants, while, for example, in Gorenjska, although the Minister has already pointed out that it is not entirely comparable, 47 saints and saints will be present. In the sixth constituency, 10 provincial saints and saints will represent as many as 53,000 inhabitants. The proposer shall ensure that the electoral units have been designed meaningfully. If we look at the Kamnik-Sava region, which is already just an area of this province unnaturally, it warns both professionally and some who will provide the interests of the inhabitants in this region. If I mention just the former Secretary of State and Minister's party colleague, who himself was an actor in the formation of this province, he points out that his municipality of Lithuania cannot be in the constituency together with the municipality of Zagorje ob Savi. The municipality of Lithuania and the municipality of Šmartno pri Litija are of the opinion that because of the election unit, together with the municipality of Zagorje ob Savi, they will not be evenly represented in the 39-member provincial council of Kamnik-Saw Province. Such flowers are even more in this law and should be taken seriously under scrutiny and, in view of the comments that have arrived at the National Assembly, reconsider how to form electoral units. The Prime Minister of the Government has asked us to adopt this law, because we will be able to correct it later. However, we are of the opinion that if we are already building a new house, in this case a landscape, we are building it so that we can live in it pleasantly and improve our quality of life, not to rush by moving, after moving in and after the formation of the landscapes we are working on identifying mistakes and correcting them. Such actions are irresponsible and even less responsible is the President of the Government, who encourages us, Members and Members with such irresponsible action.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u119	I thank Mr Bojan Kontic, who gave the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats. I ask Mr Milan Petk to deliver an opinion on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u120	Vice President, thank you. As it has been said, we have focused today on the law before this law, this is the Law establishing the provinces, and there also the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has said that it does not intend to support such a law. As a result, the debate on the Electoral Units Act is now irrelevant to us, as this law is based on these 14 provinces, so the basis of our point of view is wrong. The law, however technically appropriate, allows for a debate that some electoral units are not properly designed, but in the LDS we consider that this is unnecessary today, that it is necessary to wait for the final decision on the number of provinces and only then talk about this law. That is why we do not participate in the next debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. The proposed law will determine the number and areas of the electoral units and the number of members elected by individual electoral units in the first elections to the provincial councils. In order to ensure the fullest uniform representation of the individual areas in the regional councils, electoral units are designed to elect one member of the world to approximately the same number of inhabitants. The bill sets out the electoral units for the first provincial elections, and the provinces will then be able to regulate this area independently, as provided for in the draft law on the provinces, which we believe is good in the parliamentary group. The proposal for a provincial law sets out the number of members of the provincial councils according to the size of the province, from 33 to 55 and the odd number of members of the provincial council. The basic unit for the establishment of electoral units is the municipality. In large Slovenian cities, the areas of the constituencies are in some cases determined by the fourth and the local communities. The constituencies have been formed to the fullest extent possible within the meaning of the unit, as they are for the local communities, which will reflect the interests of the people in their area, as we believe in our Group of Members, that it is a good solution. In the New Slovenia Group, when we continue to adopt this law, it is said that until the second reading, we will also consider very carefully the comments of the local communities until the number and areas of individual constituencies are determined. In New Slovenia, we will strive to ensure that all parts of each province are evenly represented so as not to dominate the regional centres at the expense of the rest of the province. By realizing that the smallest number of saints in one constituency is five, which means that not every congregation can be, which is actually now in law, an electoral unit. It is therefore good that the Law on the Elections of the Regional Council allows voters among candidates who have been proposed by political parties or only voters to gather with signatures those who trust him and give him a preferred vote, it is said, a preferential vote, and thus elect candidates from smaller municipalities. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u124	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In reviewing the Election Units Act in the First Regional Council, we concluded in the Slovenian People's Party that the number of constituencies, the number of saints in the constituencies, as the total number of saints in the provincial councils between 33 and 55 saints, depending on the size of the province, is appropriate. After a review of the individual provinces and electoral units, we find that the proposed number of holy places within the province is approximately the same after the electoral units. Of course, there are some derogations here and there, but I think it would be possible to adjust these matters in a later procedure somehow logically. We also believe that the limits defining the constituencies are largely defined by the groups of municipalities representing some of the closed gravity units. It can also happen here that someone will notice that a matter is not exactly as it should be, at least in his opinion, and we believe that it is possible to correct these things in a later discussion and decision-making, too, in order to eliminate certain possible illogicalities. In doing so, I would also point out that things are happening somewhere, that some of the councils of the municipalities may have changed their minds and then the necessary placement of some of the marginal areas will be moved from one province to another and, of course, this will be changed in this law. The Slovenian People's Party will support and participate actively in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Trophynik on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. The Electoral Units Act is, of course, dependent on two laws: on what we discussed in the past, it is said, on the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, and of course also on the Law on Elections to the Regional Authorities, which we discussed a while ago. Of course, the logical consequence is that the weaknesses of both marriages result in this third, which should logically be monitored in some other order of adoption of these laws or consideration of the Electoral Law. There is something else that results in this law, another weakness, namely this unfortunate excessive fragmentation at the first level of local self-government. It is true that the provincial council will not delegate the municipality, but the results of the electoral law, the results of the division of the provinces or their number and the results of the excessive fragmentation of the municipalities will lead to great disappointments that the individual areas, I am not talking about the municipalities as institutions or the local community of the first level, but that the areas of the individual municipalities will not have representatives in the regional councils. This will be a terrible disappointment because the public expects the opposite. Of course, to a greater extent, it could be avoided if we were to judge once again or when it was decided that in the constituency, the lower limit was the five saints elected, as well as the adoption of a different system of elections to the provincial councils. We ourselves then proposed a solution to Europe's experience, but there was no political will, not even to listen to that proposal more collectively, let alone to accept it. Of course, there is no serious criticism that I have to say, the argument that this division into electoral units is so qualitatively prepared to knowingly prevent local centralism or regional centralism. For God's sake, the fact is there is something else that, apart from Ljubljana, all these regional centres are so weak also by the number of people that there is no fear that this could happen unless someone consciously extends. We must be so honest if we are to read this data very elementaryly, as it is actually written. Of course, it is necessary to return to the Electoral Law again, since this is closely linked, not to knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure. It was difficult to argue why we have the lowest number of saints in the landscape world - 33, the highest - 55. That's not that difficult. However, between the two provinces, which have a population ratio of 1 to 2, the difference in two saints, such as the appropriate Savinja-Salenia province, is the smallest with thirty saints, and then I will take it from the other end, while Goriška, which is slightly less than twice, is 37. However, you also have cases where there are only two differences. That's where he's referring to some proportions. This could be further developed in the field of costs and so forth, and I will not do so. If we look at a little statistically, and if we look at the range interval, how many saints or residents are elected by a saint in a particular region, provided for in these laws, we can see that in % is the interval between the lowest number of people in the same region coming to one saint in one constituency, and the highest in Celje, this interval is 43%. Once again, this is the difference between the upper and lower limits. Dolenjsko-Belokranski 18, Gorenjski 46, Goriški 72, Istrian-Kraška holiday 10, Kamnik-Savavska 30, Koroška 9, Ljubljanska 31, Notranjska 5, Posavka 4%, Prekmursko-praška 12, Ptujsko-ormoška 27, Savinj-Shaleška 27, Štajerska 31. Of course, there is no excuse for such a situation. And that we are not wasting our time needlessly because we have not supported or intended to support the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes and not the Law on the Elections of Regional Authorities for the already said and partly repeated reasons, of course it is logical that the results of these two laws, this is the Law on Election Units, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council. By establishing the provinces, it is necessary to allow the first elections of the provincial councils to be held, which is the purpose of this law. The purpose of the law is to determine the number of electoral units and the number of members elected. The basic principle in this regard was to ensure that individual areas are represented as evenly as possible and to minimise differences in the number of voters and candidates in individual constituencies, taking into account the size of the provinces. Thus, the main solution to the law is to determine the electoral units by the proposed provinces. On the question of whether, given the anticipated goals, principles and main solutions to the law are also well prepared, we need to answer yes. It is true, however, that it cannot be avoided that individual solutions are somewhat tended to be coloured and that they have traces of political violence against the profession. In this regard, we point to the inconsistent determination of more equal constituencies, or a more equal number of voters in the individual electoral unit. In the province of Styria, a councillor will be elected in one constituency to 4,300 voters, in the other, for example Savinja-Shaleski to less than 2,000 voters. Such differences would at least lead to substantial mitigation later. It can also be found that some municipalities already have a pre-assured election of their representatives to the provincial council and some may already be eliminated. It is true that, after establishing the provinces and electing the first worlds, things can be changed enough for the next elections, but we note that there will be needed changes and meaningful improvements in decisions in the hands of the majority elected for the first time. However, the law in its entirety deserves support, as it is in the package of all those who push the wheel of the establishment of the provinces forward and we will therefore support DeSUS Members in a single way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Lucky Friend on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This is essentially forced and premature blackmailing of provincial legislation. This has already been said today in the first package of legislation we have adopted, and it will not be too much if we say it again. I believe that this law will not receive the necessary support, and it is the same. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that 3 million and a half euros should be sufficient for these elections in the provincial councils and, of course, if we look at what the requirements of the profession were, what were the requirements of the public, what were the requirements of the municipalities which were overlooked. The municipalities are required to coordinate, eliminate all legal and major non-compliances, and then some elaborate proposal that would go into the admission procedure. It is important to be aware that today we have a village community, that we have local communities, the city’s fourth community, the congregation, the holy congregations, the National Assembly, and the State Council, and now we have a province. This is correct, of course, if the delegation of powers and employees, as well as money, i.e. financial resources, has moved from the budgets of ministries to the provinces. Is that gonna happen? Dear Minister, I'd like you to answer three questions. I ask once again: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be so persistent and insist that in fact all state bureaucracy, 4,000 people working across different ministries today, will move to future provinces? So, will these people working in Ljubljana today move to Trbovlje, Hrastnik, Upper Kungoto, I don't know, Sežana, Koper and so on proportionally to the size of the province? Will we overlook this fact and employ new people, introduce new bureaucracy? I'd like you to answer that clearly because it's very important. Then I believe that next year you will not say that you have a budget surplus if you do this, you will hire new additional people. Dear Minister, what will you do if the majority opinion of the mayors of Primorska demands a single Primorska. I will also submit this law to article 6 of the amendment myself, because we do not agree with the rapeous name leaving Primorsko. You named it Istrian-Kraška region. It's a made-up name. And since I am the very initiator - I wrote a letter to all the mayors to decide whether they will put to the vote a single Primorska, territorially united request on their councils, because only such a letter can be territorially sufficient, economically strong and, most importantly, universityly successful. If that happens, will you overlook that fact? What are you gonna do? And finally, a mistake was made when you called for more than 150 municipalities to submit proposals for the names of the county seats, from this context you then excluded this as good and harmonised, you were able to boast before the public, and later, Minister of Respect, for unknown reasons, you changed our names, the original proposals, the provisions of the landscapes, so you changed what was somehow harmonised, for which you have already reached consensus. Why? Of course I'm interested in these things. If you succeed today, and as a result bring the second law through the procedure, you also have to answer this question: What happens when you have a referendum before you? I already told you at the first marriage that Primorska would demand a referendum. And we will have it and you will also get a proposal of a single Primorski. Will you change this law if we adopt it? I ask you very broadly: Are you prepared to listen to the majority opinion of the people of one province at all? If you are, then what we have before us today is not coordinated, for you have not listened to them. You did not listen to the Faculty of Law, you did not listen to the experts, and these experts also actually complained to you in an open letter from the Faculty of Public Administration. You missed them, you wrote something your own way, a patchwork that was consistent with your rural mayors, who want to have their own feud. And this is today's bill. I ask you kindly to answer these questions. If accepted, who will be responsible for the costs incurred? Are you ready to take them? These costs, of course, will not be small. The referendum knows how much it costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u132	Respectable present. The more a person listens to today's debate, whether it be within the scope of the previous point or this point, the more I believe it is being created, the more I said before, an illusion. What we are doing with this law if we can integrate that ability and dialogue in connection with this law into this dialogue that we have had in connection with the first point, namely the Law establishing the provinces. There was no representative of the government or those who support such a government idea, which would not say in his performance, not least the minister: "We are open, we listen to every comment, we are prepared to amend the laws. It is up to you who oppose this project whether you cooperate constructively or not." And now we are talking about the basic question: What is constructive cooperation for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? From the current position-making of individual political parties, and not least from the content of the law before us today, we can speak very critically or rather very realistically that only nodding is acceptable to the government. Seduction of what's called a government idea. If, in the framework of the first law, we are still convinced of the possibility of dialogue, of amendments to the proposed law, given that we are talking about the first stage of the legislative procedure, we see that Minister Žagar has failed, we can see that you have deceived all of you who have talked about the possibility of law being further refined or upgraded. Why? It's simply because in the law that is before us today, you are precisely setting the limits of all 14 futures, and I sincerely hope that there will not be, that is, 14 provinces. You precisely define the boundaries of these regions and thus prevent them from amending the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes at all. It's easy to throw sand in your eyes, but it's in that precious way that only one who doesn't have the legal texts in front of them could possibly miss. Whoever has the legal text before them, and we all have it, knows that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a proponent, is not prepared to take a step back, or, rather, step forward in the perception of communication. If I touch, at my assessment or at the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members known as Lipa, allow me to point out the most absorbing information in the draft law that we are considering in this situation today and here. On the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have a proposed province with almost 400,000 inhabitants within Slovenian provinces. 400,000 inhabitants on the one hand and on the other hand this same government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also proposes a province with 61,000 inhabitants. So 400 thousand inhabitants in one province and in another province 61 thousand inhabitants. I'm sorry, I honestly think that the person who will then say that these two provinces will be equivalent to the general tasks, the general way of financing, and the communication with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be absolutely necessary. For if someone affirms the equivalence of the substantive province, which has 400,000 inhabitants, and of the province, which has 60,000 inhabitants, ladies and gentlemen, in this case equality can already be derived from the performance of the tasks and cannot be derived from the financial resources received. This is about the way I listened to one of you ruling Members a few days ago when I was told that every single Slovenian mayor could come to the President of the Government if he showed this interest. But the facts are different. It is very difficult for the President of the Government to reach the mayor of the largest municipality in Slovenia, Ljubljana, except for a mayor who may not be sitting here and has the same function as the mayor and MP. Then he's lucky, and he might see him once a month walking around that hall and waving. But equality, ladies and gentlemen, is not at this address. Earlier, it was said about the developmental orientation of an individual region or a better landscape or, rather, about GDP per capita within a particular province, how will all of this now be distributed evenly to the population by raising hands tomorrow? This was "Mesage" or the content of a message given to us by the minister or, on the other hand, by some government representatives. But if we just look at the geographical distribution of these predicted provinces, we can see that the government can unfortunately tend to do something else: to have successful landscapes and to have unfortunately unsuccessful landscapes. In the meantime, there will be a tampon that will make communication impossible and a tampon that will be at the same time responsible for the further development of the individual provinces. If I spoke about the diversity based on the number of inhabitants, I would like to reiterate that 400,000 vs 60,000, and only within the fourteen proposed regions, then allow me to also expose the occupation of so-called provincial saints. I'm in the morning, I think I've listed some 12 level saints we already have in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, those who have been expected since 1994, on the basis of their administrative powers under the Law on Local Self-Government or any other law, have taken care to prevent centralism. As far as they've done it since 1994, we all know. The minister must also know they failed, and the president of the government. The President of the Government said that those who would not support this kind of government idea of additional client-administrative activities would be against decentralisation and would be behind centralism. It is information that we will have in one province and I do not purposely appoint them because I do not want to be partial, 55 representatives of the people living in the region, and in the other we will have 33 representatives in the province's basic organisational form. Ladies and gentlemen, especially at the Ministry, do you not know that today, on the basis of the 200 congregations, there are city halls, and this time I will expose my city, the city of Maribor, 45 saints. And what will happen to us is that only one city will have more saints than the province. Does that make sense? The powers will be, as the Government says, although I do not think so, we will have a province with 33 saints, and under this province there will be even municipalities with more than 33 saints already under the title of basic local self-government. Where does this governmental way of thinking lead? Comrade Jerovšek, let me finish. Thank you. I have two things to point out from this place. I think that the speaker has already pointed out before me that with the proposed marriage solution, which we can no doubt say is extremely bad, which we can no doubt say is aimed at creating landscapes, so that in eight months someone can beat their chests and say, I have taken down the country's legislation. When asked where the contents of this landscape are, he is likely to respond in a political way in the form of a pamphlet. But interesting information in this relationship and especially given that I have heard a number of government representatives say that the purpose of this law is to quote: "The equal representation of the inhabitants of each province is the purpose of this law." And this same gentleman also said that this objective is pursued and even achieved under this law. It is supposed to be an indication that in one of the constituencies, even the Logatec, there will be 1,962 inhabitants of the province for one saint or one saint. Not far away, because Slovenia is small, there will be 8,039 inhabitants for one provincial councillors under this law. If we look at the relationship now that one provincial councilman under this law will cover 1,858, this I think covers the least of the inhabitants, and the other councilman will cover under this heading 8,039. Then who of those who have read the law can claim that the law before us meets the objective of equal representation. Equal representation of who? If we have found that there is no equivalency in the number of inhabitants of each province, that there are deviations, from 400,000 inhabitants to 60,000 inhabitants, if we have determined on the basis of the content of the law that the electoral units, where one councilman is less than 2,000 inhabitants, are elective units, where more than 8,000 inhabitants come to one provincial councilman if we have found differences in funding and in the scope of the individual tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, this marriage is a derivative of the previous marriage. And if anyone has actually been in doubt about the inquality of the previous law, the content of this law must give him a clear enough signal that the package that the government is offering us is, in fact, a beautifully resounding word: the landscapes are really pretty-sounding names of very empty content that can never survive in such a form. I regret that Minister Žagar or that Minister Žagar has failed to prepare better legislation. But the reason for admission must not be in the name or address of the law, but in its contents. We had too much in Slovenia, and we still have empty laws with nice words. I think it was yesterday, the law on patient rights, where someone who looks at only the law would say, yes, of course, that's the best law. But it's also an empty law. We must not allow ourselves to be credible, or if we are trying to reach a credible branch of government, the legislative branch of power should allow us to accept, applaud and stand before such empty laws. The figures I gave during my debate on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members are the figures in the draft law. No number is the fruit of my calculation. No number is the result of any of you discussing it. But all the numbers are taken from the marriage. Of course, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The bill on electoral elections in the first provincial council is prepared in the way that such legislation is being prepared. In the same way, a bill on elections to the municipal councils was drafted. The law itself, of course, provides for the possibility of electoral units to be elected to the first provincial councils, and then the provinces can regulate this area independently, as stipulated in the Proposal for a Law on the Provinces. Even after the first constitution, the municipal councils can change the electoral districts and the number of saints in accordance with the law of establishment. This will also be possible in provincial legislation. The number of provincial saints from 33 to 55 and the constituencies are so made that the same number of saints is approximately equal to the number of inhabitants in each province. If we compare this only with the election or with the legislation on elections to the National Assembly, we find that at the provincial level, although, of course, the provinces are different, different sizes, the number of inhabitants is significantly more difficult to do than at the state level, where we have eight constituencies and in each constituency after eleven constituencies. The statements of some Members in front of me are kind of stupid. The national elections show that, for example, only Zasavje has slightly more elections in three constituencies than Slovenia's Bistrica. Or, in other words, the Member of the Slovenian Bistrica, my colleague, Josef Jerovšek, should then have three votes to his fellow Member, Mr Ptræ, because his constituency has three times more inhabitants than the constituency of Mr Ptræ. Therefore, it is foolish to make such comparisons at regional level, between regions. However, it is perfectly logical to make such comparisons at national level and it is clear why the constituencies were so made at national level and why it was in the Zasavska work. I am deeply convinced that if we adopt what is necessary, including the Law on Elections in the Regional Councils, that then statistics on the movement of both jobs and the level of gross domestic product per capita, those who will work after 10 years of comparison, as we now have here, will be significantly different. Because I simply believe and trust people on the ground because I am aware, as the President of the Council of State Mr Blaž Kavčič, who is not from the Slovenian Democratic Party or from any of the political parties in the coalition, is aware of this, but from the Liberal Democracy, which, as President of the Council of State, clearly stated that we are talking about a policy that is possible, not an ideal policy. And he also says: "When we talked about tasks, we actually know in the space between the congregation and the country three categories of tasks in which we count on the provinces. And it's not essential what these tasks are going to be, it's essential that resources go along with the tasks." And he is aware, and he also says in his final part: "The quality of life resolution in Slovenia exceeds the possibility of resolving these issues without a set provincial level." Without a set provincial level, colleagues and colleagues, these tables will still be as threatening as they are now, when we see that in six years there has been an increase or increase in jobs in the central Slovenian region by 30 000, that the whole of Koroška is barely 26 000 or Pomurska, Koroška, Zasavska, Lower Seinesavska, Goriška, Inner and Coastal Kraška regions together do not have as many jobs as the central Slovenian region can afford. However, I am afraid that the vast majority of Members also have serious problems with themselves because they are aware that they know that data is necessary to adopt regional legislation, but because the instructions of some individuals who undoubtedly benefit from it are very few, residents and residents, pensioners, workers and so on in the central Ljubljana region are of no use. However, some individuals have them and these benefits are obviously so great, and the influences of these people on some political parties are also so strong that they inhibit this regionalisation and hold back or want to maintain their centralisation. I believe that we will succeed this legislation and, even if necessary, it is still possible in the second reading to change the number of constituencies and so on, clearly in some contexts. We will, of course, support this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I agree that the law under consideration at this point is closely linked to the previous law. However, not only technically, as the Minister originally said, because the content of this law is also linked to the definition of the provinces, but also with regard to the adoption and implementation itself. If the previous law is not adopted, then we simply have nothing to do with this law. That is why, of course, I am still under the impression of the debates in the previous law, where we have found that some do not mean seriously with this decentralisation, that, while at the principal level, we all identify differences and the need to reduce these differences when we come to concrete action, there are a hundred different reasons why we should not support the legislation. This points to some duality, to some approach, when for some political reasons, some personal interests, political calculations, we do harm to Slovenia. We say in principle that we support these changes, we want evenly developed Slovenia, and, on the other hand, because of some narrow interests, we simply reject the package of this legislation. I also do not understand some of the mayors sitting here, the mayors, the municipal councilors, who, in addition to representing the Slovenes as Members, also represent local interests. And at least part of these local interests should also be expressed through their discussions here in the National Assembly and concerned about such localised legislation as this package that we are considering. I am also concerned that there is no genuine will to further improve these laws. That is why we have a multi-stage legislative process so that, through first reading, we can identify what is lacking, what is yet to be improved, and then we can improve this process further. Here we listen to categorical rejection, at least by the opposition, that the legislation is so bad that we will not support it at all. This, however, will put an end to the legislative process. This means, once again, that is to say, that some people do not honestly mean that they want to further improve their contribution to their proposals, constructive proposals, in order to move forward. When I listened to these discussions, some say what is wrong, what is wrong with this legislation, but what really bothers me is that there are not enough concrete proposals, what to improve. Some in 13 years have not developed a clear position and decided what is good and what is not good, not in those 10 years when you actually had scissors and canvas in your hands and could propose and implement this legislation yourself through the process, not in these three years, when we are very intensely discussing the amendment or we have talked about changing the Constitution and laying the foundations for this legislation that we are adopting today. If I focus more on this law, which we are dealing with at this point, the law on electoral units for the first elections in the provincial councils, first of all what my colleague Puksic has discussed before me, I would like to draw attention to some concerns about equal representation. We cannot compare the landscape with each other, we must see that all parts of the province within the province are evenly represented. This is our goal not to see a new centralisation at the provincial level, that all parts of the province have the opportunity to elect their representatives and that these representatives can satisfactorily represent their interests. And if I'm even more specific here, if I look at the Styrian province that I come from, it will be divided into eight constituencies, in which 49 saints will be elected. In electoral units, there will be a variety of elected saints, depending on how large these units will be. All of them cannot be equated if we want those small congregations that are not to be divided but to be within one constituency. Exceptions are only those of the largest city congregation. The number of inhabitants per saint in this Styrian province ranges from about 4,200 to 5,600 and something else, indicating that at least one saint needs about the same number of inhabitants. Secondly, which I think is very important for this province, which is somehow specific. We have one particular center. This is the city of Maribor, which is political, cultural, historical, and I do not know which, center. But all around them are different small suburban congregations. From Šentilj, Ruš, Oplovnice, Lovrenc, Lenarta, Hoče, Rače-Fram or Hoče - Slivnica, Parents, Duplex and so on. And the fear that some have sowed that in order to decentralize the country, we will come to centralisation within the provinces, I think that is not appropriate in this case. All of these urban congregations, which today because of their size or their smallness, are not capable of running some major projects themselves. Well, let's say utility infrastructure. They're just too small. They cannot perform on some major project calls themselves, but together, of course, this will be much, much easier. Well, not just that. These towns must also cooperate with the Municipality of Maribor. They have to. And they're working together. But I think this cooperation, this practice has shown, is too under-coordinated, too solid. If they are together, then these projects can be more boldly set up, we can also run for European funds, we will gather more of our own participation and so on. From this point of view, I believe that the formation of the landscape is appropriate. What I then said about the interests of the city congregation or those surrounding congregations, if we looked at how many saints would be elected in this area, if I flew so quickly, it would be there about 28, 29, and from the Municipality of Maribor 20, 21. It is completely impossible to predict all the results. This means that these small congregations or small congregations that have successfully represented their interests in this province. This is also a guarantee that this new centralism at the provincial level will not be reached and that such organisation of the province will prove necessary and meaningful. Of course I'll support this marriage. Despite the fact that, due to the views and views of some Members in the previous law, this optimism of mine is slightly lower, as far as the establishment of the provinces is concerned, but I certainly think that we must make every effort to adopt this package, but whatever it may be. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary and co-worker! The coincidence wanted me to discuss with my fellow Member, who came from the same province as I was supposed to live alone in the future, and I will try to prove to you that my views on the designations of areas are slightly different from those of his. But for starters, that's all you know. If anyone honestly thinks so, this does not say anything about the quality of his arguments. The things laid down in the law are rational, they must be justified, and when I look at the law that we are currently discussing, I miss the argument for those claims that are in the introduction to this law. I agree with the Minister that this is only a technical law. I see this law as a consequence of the previous one, which has been debated for so many hours, because it is only a fragmentation within the individual provinces within which the first elections will take place. And according to the applicant's assurances, the most equitable representation of individual areas should be ensured. Now that we go through these statistics, what does that mean? Is it the whole representation or representation of the inhabitants, which criterion was decisive? If I look from the point of view of the Municipality of Maribor, there will be 20 representatives among 49, and perhaps one in one of the constituencies, where part of Maribor will also be represented. But whether this will make the quality of decision-making and taking into account the views of the individual population and residents of the area in which they live truly optimal, is another issue that I am also linking with another issue. In fact, the introductory text states that electoral units have been formed to the fullest extent possible into meaningful units. What's a meaningful unit now? I said before, a reasonable unit could, for example, be the division of the city municipality into 4 constituencies, but the municipality of Maribor is not entirely represented in these constituencies. If I go to see, as the original proponents intended, that the elections in the provinces would be held at the same time as the national elections, then it represents a very big blur over the non-covering of the constituency units for the provinces by not covering the constituencies within the electoral unit that I am close to and which, believe me, as far as I know. This opens the way for asking questions about what led the proposers to create electoral units just like that, why they are connected as well as related. The number makes me the least of the problems, because the number of members depends on the number of inhabitants. It's at least the only mathematically calculating data. But things are very important from here on out. Only the first elections will be held under this law. As the matter will be settled later, the other law and the provincial council, whose decisions will undoubtedly stem from the election arithmetic of the first elections to the provincial councils. And that's a big weakness. I'd dare comment on another point of view. It says here that the constituencies, as it is said, have been formed to the greatest extent possible into meaningful units, since they are for local communities that will reflect the interests of the inhabitants in their area. I would expect us to move more towards setting up new legislation in the direction of parity democracy. Mr Minister certainly knows what I am discussing, because there is now a report among us that we must not only guarantee a number of things, but also ensure quality. Everyone knows, as much as the principle of equal opportunities, that influence in the legislative and decision-making process can start only above 30%. The amount set out in the second law for the elections in the provincial councils is 25% for these first elections. Good, because we can say that in the 51st article of the electoral law we also have the principle of variable placement at 40%, where it's not to say "screw" a mistake, because it has to be variable, but we know that 40% will not go through because it's a bad number, it's always the sex that's put first in a better position than the sex that's put in second place. No, we can calculate that. At five, if it starts with a man, it's three men and two women. And I'm talking about parity democracy. A much nicer picture is or a better proof of what I am talking about, but this has been determined on gender parity in the first elections in Article 87, given the list of four candidates, which is also possible, and there must be at least 25%. Everyone can figure it out, there'll be only one woman in four. In doing so, we do not decide where this woman should be listed. As a result, this recital explains to me that the views, wishes and demands or what else I want to reflect the best interests of the people will be taken into account, and I can then conclude from this that, after the first elections, the interests of the majority of the population in Slovenia will not be represented in this case. I do not agree with different stories about how women do not want to participate in decision-making at all, because only a few different measures should be taken or procedures should be taken to register candidateing and so on. If I am not here too much, I would say, even more critical than I have been before, I think that Slovenia, which, while very much boasting about the way it follows European trends, certainly does not follow this trend of equal opportunities, at least as regards quality procedures. Here I see one of the fundamental weaknesses of the proposed legislation, which in this case, in this very technical law, needs to be stressed once again in the end, the areas were dictated by the electoral arithmetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam President. See, Slovenia has two million inhabitants, a little more, and this is one major hotel in the Republic of China. And we're going for what we're going for. The parishes of small congregations with three houses, one school and five innhouses want to have the provincial legislation we have here today. We have an expression of interest in village communities, local communities, city quarters, as I said earlier, municipalities, community communities, then we have municipal councils, that I do not speak the National Assembly, the State Council, and now we will have a province, a province that will not be aligned with what people wanted. Why don't we do some deregulation first and then regulate ourselves to a new local government? All these organs I've listed have elected people in direct elections. And that's something to be paid for. The ratio of those who create in the country and those who are hanged as attachments to those who work is one to ten. And interestingly, those who create do not have the right to profit in the companies that create it and do not have the right to a decent life. This is the Republic of Slovenia, which is a social state, written in the Constitution. Dear Minister! I asked you a few questions earlier. I hope to get answers to that. See, when the Constitution was amended in June 2006, when we amended 121st, 140th and 143rd paragraphs, which made it possible for us to start drafting this legislation, which we have here today, as one of the drafts, we made it clear in the Slovenian National Party that the provincial legislation would be a constitutional category, which would prevent what happened in the municipalities. From 56 municipalities there were 210 municipalities. Where we have the guarantee that even the provinces, which are already too large for us by European standards, because the trend of the European Union countries is to reduce the number of landscapes, can grow like mushrooms in the rain. Can you guarantee this won't happen? Thank you for listening to me, Mr. Secretary. Last thing I want to ask you is this. If and how will the situation of people living today and already exercising their interests improve in all of these categories, which I have previously listed, if you can explain to me what the quality of life will be, which will be so much better, because we will have such provincial legislation without this deregulation. And how much more expensive is this going to be than today? That's what I'm interested in, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I certainly owe a few answers to the previous implementation because I have been asked questions, although these questions are not related to this law. That's what we have to say. But I think I've actually answered all these questions a few times, and I'm going to do it again. As for the provinces, if you are looking and you need to look at the whole package of legislation plus the decision that was also forwarded to the National Assembly and is linked to the transfer of the financial framework with the tasks, along with the staff, this is from the state level down, then it is quite clear that there is no new administration here, that there are no new costs with this title and that there are also no new taxes. The whole legislation needs to be examined, along with this package. But it is true that we were unable to prepare the budget, because it is necessary to establish a formal province first. However, based on the 2009 budget projection, this analysis has been carried out and a new budget for 2009 has to be put in place or prepared, which also takes into account the formal landscapes when they are set up. There are no new costs, as I have already mentioned, and there are no new taxes. As regards any additional costs, they shall be the responsibility of the Authority. We can agree with this, but we have chosen parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, I personally agree that this is a democracy that is the right one here in the National Assembly, which we have at the level of the municipality at this moment, of course, at the level of the first level of local self-government, and we will also have it at the second level of local self-government. I think that they have not yet found or that some other democracy's attempts are likely to be significantly more unfortunate in the past and in individual countries. With regard to other issues and legislative coordination, let's say the questions you brought from Primorska. There are two provinces under this legislation. I must say, when we were on our last visit to the mountain work, I did not feel any interest in the united province, the mountainous part or the northern part. I allow this name because, as far as these names are concerned, they are historically conditioned and depend on how far we look at history. Let's be realistic and be honest. That's not a problem. If I apply the matter to Koroška, where we probably all agree that we must keep Koroška because some across the border are looking forward to Slovenia's resignation. But we do know that there will be Koroscas and Styrians of their origin in the province of Koroška. We are here in this sense through the entire debate that has been held, and through the entire communication that has been conducted both at the political level and at the bottom, that is, at the provincial level, also in accordance with the change in the constitution, things to this extent, as they are now, can be taken into account. But it is true that we have diametrically opposite views there from your environment, as far as that name is concerned. Of course, I am sure that if there is no complete harmonisation, the National Assembly will have to decide on this. That's up to the National Assembly. I am confident that the National Assembly will take the solution that is probably the most acceptable at that time. I said earlier that it is probably not possible to expect that you will get and that work will be so easy for you, and we have not been relieved as legislators, but we will also work together all the time to get a unified opinion, because then probably all the debates we have will fall away. In some cases, of course, it will be necessary to make a decision. It will decide the National Assembly, it will decide by a two-thirds majority, which means the widest possible consensus. I see no reason not to take these questions and solutions into account. As far as this law is concerned, some concerns were raised. I have to make it very clear once again that we cannot compare the number of saints between the individual provinces, the ratios between the largest and the smallest province here are significantly smaller than the ratios between the largest and the smallest municipalities, because it is necessary to ensure even in that minimum some minimum quota and to maintain some ratios. We have tried, given the number of voters, to maintain even representation within individual constituencies, within individual provinces. And since such questions have also been raised, let's say that we are not serious about adapting legislation, so to speak, through coordination. Of course we mean it, but at this point we have this solution, and this solution belongs through this law. Normally, if we harmonise further amendments, and I expect that there will be some further harmonisation, so that this law will also need to be properly harmonised in this part. But at some point we have both solutions, we could eventually write both marriages into one of these laws. With regard to some other elements, I think that we have also taken into account, in terms of gender parity, those solutions that have been adopted by us at this time for the rest of the elections. The principle of the reference vote is also respected. I am even stressing this even more personally because it seems to me that this is actually putting choice in the right place and that this allows voters to elect the right candidates or candidates, unfortunately there is no Mrs. Potter here. I am convinced that the candidates and the candidates are the ones who are the candidates and candidates, but the quality of the candidates and candidates is the one who will condition the future composition of the individual provincial councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I'm actually going to say the same thing as some others, but in the framework of the legislation, it's not possible to separate all of these things, they're intertwined, they're already done and they're going to be now, otherwise it's not going to work. Colleagues and colleagues, I have looked at several discussions in this Chamber at this point and the previous point, and I must say that today is a sad day for Ljubljana. A sad day for Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia, which also hosts us, i.e. the National Assembly. So many untruths or, if you want, misleading half-truths, even in some speeches, really individual ones, we haven't heard the ugly about Ljubljana in a long time. After all, the Government has also contributed to this document by misleading. There is no untruth in this data, just talking about something else that the government wants to convince us to talk about. And that's what I'm going to tell you. In a way, no one has a nice word for this place. In a way, it's happening to her just as it did to the former Olympics football club you remember, my colleague Kovacic will remember it, I think we went to the last game where Olympia always played abroad. When she was visiting, she was visiting the opposite team and the opposite fans. And when she played at home, the stadium was dominated by those in Ljubljana who came from the places where the club came from, and again hosted a foreign team in front of a foreign audience, foreign fans. This is also the case in the National Assembly with this Ljubljana, with this unfortunate Ljubljana. To a certain extent Ljubljana has become insensitive to these half-truths, deceptions and so on. But all this tolerance has certain limits. We're not going to leave everything to ourselves in Ljubljana. I don't! And not only because I am a Ljubljana MEP, because I hope to admit it in the National Assembly, I have been elected to Ljubljana, but mainly because these accusations are unrealistic and misleading. First of all, colleagues and colleagues, it is absurd to claim that it is actually because Ljubljana and what is the central Slovenian region are developing too quickly or rapidly that this is why other regions or statistical regions that we have today are developing more slowly. I don't know where you came from with this statement, which was already made in the introduction, because this statement speaks of the so-called theory of "zero game itself" the theory of zero sum that if one develops, then it must urgently and everywhere and always develop into an account and with the resources of others. And if so, we must immediately return to socialism, to distribution, and we must accept, if you wish, the orthomarkism theory of inequality. If we're going to this topic. Even Marxists today no longer advocate it, at least not in this form. These table data are, of course, misleading. First time. The GDP per capita has never been itself, but today there is not at all a good enough indicator of social development or economic development, let alone prosperity. We all know that. Even President Sarkozy, who said that we should do some other synthetic indicator of development and so on, knows this. That's why he doesn't say anything about it. We need to know that in Ljubljana, there are banks, insurance companies, businesses, countries, state budgets, if you want, but at the same time there are older people living in this city centre, sick, retired and centre of Ljubljana since 1960, showing a steady decline in population and a deterioration in quality of life for certain categories of people in this city. Of course not for everyone. Another issue is the illusion that the landscapes will be, especially as they are too small to allow for more equitable development or even even equitable development. Economic, social development is always taking place as a dynamic of regional imbalances. At a certain point, there are certain areas where certain regions develop faster. Some levels of growth, maturity, and then they start to decline, and at that time, some other regions begin to develop faster, faster, faster. Economic development is moving regionally, now here, now there and so forth. This is dynamics, competition in this development means the dynamics of economic development. Therefore, do not blame if it is central Slovenia Why do you not blame the New City and the region, which has an 83% increase, that successfully New City with its province is guilty of falling behind, I don't know, the Zasavska or the pomurska or other region? We can't interpret it like that. Not at all, not in any way. It is therefore an illusion that we will somehow establish the same development, equal development. If that happens, there will be no development and it will only be possible for social redistribution, and we do not want that. The Maya landscapes of such development will not speed up the development of underdevelopment. If we look at these criteria in global terms, if we take two or three statistical regions, these differences are relatively small between 1995 and 2005. I would even expect bigger and maybe even bigger. No problem that Ljubljana has an 88% change, no problem that Podravska has 83, the problem is that Pomurska has 53 and the problem is that Savinska has 69 and Zasavska 51. That's the problem, not problem 83. And from all these aspects, it's quite clear that this picture is pointing to something else that you wanted to show us. And interestingly, we recommend tours of the website of the Statistical Office. That's a very good point. How was development the slowest in areas where the fragmentation of congregations is the highest, where we have the most congregations? How is it that, say, the valley region has shared very little and you have a very good result. It's mountaineering just as well. Ljubljana lost this robbery, which is understandable in some way, etc. In short, let's ask ourselves about these relationships. I'm making a hypothesis, I'm not analyzing, I'm not saying that this is the conclusion, but the amazing resemblance is that the more fragmented municipalities are, the more it tends to be, the smaller the rate, the change in development. And why do one area develop faster, and why not? Not because of such or other landscapes and not because of such or otherwise administrative arrangements. Not the government, not the municipal saints, not the future regional councils, will no longer have the magic wand in their hands. There's a kind of theory. The theory of comparative advantages, for example, will tell you - I can waste my time - will tell you about faster developing those regions that can use their comparative advantage, say, a beautiful seashore, to develop tourism and thus beat others. The problem with this theory is, if this activity comes into crisis, the whole region, the whole region, is in crisis, and this has happened in Zasavje and elsewhere. The theory of diversification tells you that those regions are better off developing diverse activities in response to future crises and future risks. And when this diversity is so large - if the landscape is larger. Small regions will seek comparative advantages; larger regions will strive for diversification. Larger regions have a chance of success, smaller regions can succeed well at some point in time and then fall into crisis. Sooner or later, some activity will be in crisis and still is. Finally, there is a theory of creativity that those regions succeed, independent of whether they are large or small, which may attract the greatest variety, cultural diversity and creative cadres. If you want to have creative staff, you have to have a bigger region again. And the quality of life will never be exactly the same in Slovenia, but every citizen of Slovenia must have access to quality drinking water, adequate housing, basic infrastructure, for example, to what I know, broadband access. A resident in a place that is 10 or 50 kilometers from Ljubljana or from another centre will have some advantages that Ljubljana does not have, from nature to larger surfaces, etc., and will have some weaknesses that Ljubljana does not have - say. That's clear and square. Also these differences in this quality that we can choose to live inside the city, to go out or to move to Blocks like some, etc. This is also an opportunity and an opportunity for us to choose different environments of life, and that is what Slovenians are doing well today, or what they are doing a lot, while basic things are guaranteed in terms of quality of life. The quality of life is also recognition of differences in the circumstances in which I live, while some basic matters must be provided to all under equal conditions. And that's what I'd say, because it's about the elections to the provinces. What is the unit of representation, the municipality, the village, the number of inhabitants - to which unit? And here it is, obviously, again logic, which applies at all levels. Smaller units are always represented. Slovenia has absolutely fewer MEPs in the European Parliament in the European Union, but according to the number of inhabitants, it is represented in Germany. To what extent do you think it's right or wrong, I don't know. But all I know is that in the last 15 years, there has been a lot of change in Slovenia; that there has been a movement of residents in the space and that we have electoral units and constituencies for national elections made in the 1991 censuses. We need to ask ourselves whether we should not look at this fact, that people have moved and that today we are creating great differences that are not appropriate in terms of how many people have elected one Member. I think it's time, I don't know if these elections, probably not, it's a subject that's sensitive, but of course very important. In particular, I would like to say that today it has been inappropriate for the provinces to be charged with tasks and burdens and expectations that such provinces will not be able to meet. That is why I think it is still a step towards agreeing to go and advocate a rational regional and socio-territorial organisation, which is by no means 14 provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The Minister has signed up for this. The Minister's yours, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I would still have to explain some things here at this point. Indeed, in two categories we have just followed European standards - Mr Gantar does not listen to me, but nevertheless, in the case of distribution, where the latest relevant data are taken into account, i.e. voters per election unit, and they are also slightly out of line as regards larger centres. However, in the second part, as regards the gross product data. This information is by no means misleading, is a fact and nowhere in this data are we talking about Ljubljana. There's no talk of Ljubljana anywhere, and I don't know where that came from. Because we are essentially talking about the transfer of provincial powers that the country is transferring to the provinces. As regards gross product criteria, this is a criterion used in the EU as a criterion for granting aid. The overall cohesion policy is based on the level of gross product because it is the simplest criterion. I can agree that there are other criteria and other criteria we have now - this index of developmental hazard, but measured through this index are differences, not as they are now here at baseline 1 to 2 or 1 to 3, but they are 1 to 20. And on that scale, the standards of life that you've talked about, for example, I think the number of communal connections is like one of the segments in this measure, and the level of unemployment, and some others. But these parameters this development index, if added to the gross product in this measure, significantly increases. And in this case, according to you, it would be significantly more misleading, but it is based exclusively on exact numbers. And I fully agree with you and we can all be without concern, because even after the introduction of the landscapes we will not have about the same development in all the provinces, not even around. By introducing the landscapes, we will take the step forward that will allow us to talk about some comparable conditions for life in the future. That's what needs to be done. And trends are on the one hand worrying about this. This is what I say because they are European standards. Because we did not invent ourselves as a criterion of gross product in providing cohesion policy assistance, in access to cohesion funds, to structural funds. Eliminating structural imbalances in different areas. And of course then we logically argue that these changes will bring about changes in a qualitative sense in favour of those areas that need these changes most on the one hand in the amount of gross product and on the other hand in growth itself. Probably, if we look today - and I'm not talking about Ljubljana again, but central Slovenia - these differences are still - because the data are somewhat outdated because they are from 2005, but these are the last available - probably these trends have been maintained. Also with regard to dynamics and with regard to projection, of course, the gross product that has been recorded in recent years is growing. And as far as the provinces are concerned. You mentioned some projects, some problems that are developmental. I can agree with you. However, also because we have such fragmented congregations, to which they have bulwarks, if we look, of course, at this messiah, just all the parliamentary groups in the past. Let's be honest. One in one environment, the other in another. I could have just found and I don't believe there's any group of Members who didn't help any, even a small congregation. But this is a state of emergency for us. It is only in this mandate that we have set an absolute lower limit of 2,000 inhabitants, which does not allow more than 2,000 exceptions. And the question is whether this is the most fair in view of what has already happened in the past. But also because of this landscape, we need them to be able to carry out some development projects more easily. Even when you were talking from access to the plumbing. In Prekmurje, they have been talking about the water system for ten years, and probably because they do not have a province, they are more difficult to carry out. A number of letters of intent were signed with various ministers, perhaps even with you. And if the landscapes do so, they will give priority and they will be able to bring these projects down significantly faster and accelerate development in this regard. However, I am sure or not sure, I know what practice shows us from the most developed European countries, that developmental differences will always remain and that the landscapes also mean some competition, some mirror and also probably many problems in central Slovenia, not in Ljubljana, will be significantly easier when they have the provinces.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Member Pavel Gantar applied to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u148	Actually, I have nothing to add to that, as the minister said. Okay. They're too small to compete. Five of them are under 100,000 people, the thresholds are always counted, and that's my problem. From this point of view, they do not have or have much less of this development potential and will need to be maintained in this function. That's the first thing. The other thing I'd say is that. True, everyone contributed a small congregation to this mosaic of Slovenian small congregations. I'll admit it. But I could say, in the last majority, the LDS was the same as it was, it was able to stop this process, which with the new government re-discovered and dispersed. So from this point of view, I can't accept all of your criticisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. And we continue on the basis of the list of applicants. To the word of Ambassador Mir Petk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Dr Pavel Gantar is an eminent expert in the field of urbanism, space, sociology or sociology of space, but we are now talking about another law, we are talking about the draft law on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council, and I am assessing that this law, that these units are meaningfully designed to allow for equal, equal representation of territorial units and the law as a whole, appears to support. I can say that Koroška is pleased with this arrangement. 35 saints, that means about one saint per 2,000 inhabitants. The structure is also such that the Meži valley is supposed to have 13 saints in the new landscape world, the Valley of thought 10 and Drava Valley 12, a total of 35 and in some ways there will be no predominance of one valley above another. It will be possible to create, or saints will have to look for consensus, which according to some constant latent or open disputes is very good. In short, it's a law that can support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word is by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u152	Good-bye. As close to the provinces as we are today, we probably haven't been to Slovenia, and although some people don't think this is such a very important decision, it is certainly this Parliament that will be recorded in history as a parliament that has adopted provincial legislation if this happens. I'm sure we'll be able to make enough sense to decide. The legislation we are discussing today has also been prepared on the basis of experience in the preparation of legislation on local communities, i.e. at the time of the establishment of the congregations, and I am confident that we will make fewer mistakes - even though those who are working are also sinning - than may have been made at that time. Although today we can say that the congregations are living, that they are developing significantly faster, and that they are happening in different areas, than perhaps before the establishment of the congregations - we have not seen this beat in the smaller congregations. With less money, there's now much more to be done. The decision to establish this missing level between the local level, i.e. between municipalities and the country, is, as is said, a historic decision and the establishment of the provinces must be a Slovenian project. We have obtained materials with some data, although some colleagues are still convinced that the data is too little, and the data suggests that in the central Slovenian province the number of jobs increased by 26,000 jobs between 2000 and 2006, sometimes by a thousand. Employees who travel daily to Ljubljana from all parts of Slovenia must combine transport, spend a lot of time and hours working. These employees certainly support the provinces, which would bring some dynamics and also increase jobs in their region. Ljubljana, i.e. the central Slovenian region, is also the most economically developed region, 46% of all companies have a seat here, as well as 24% of small entrepreneurs. This, of course, enables it to have good transport connections, for which in some regions they have been fighting for a long time and traffic accessibility is poor, and therefore they are less attractive to investors, entrepreneurs. As you could read in the media, you live expensively in Ljubljana, but you also earn better. And perhaps we would like to earn better in other regions, not that we are witnessing a trend, that the population in the central region is greatly increasing, while in rural or smaller areas it does not pay enough attention to the creation of both jobs and other conditions, and that is why often young people studying in Ljubljana, Maribor remain there. That's what the data says. In the central Slovenian region, 28% of the population is higher and highly educated, which is 8% above average, and also because this intellectual potential does not return to the regions, they cannot develop so well and quickly. I live alone in the immediate vicinity of Ljubljana, i.e. the central Slovenian region, and I do not want the development, as my colleague Gantar said, to stop in Ljubljana and the surrounding area, nor to stop these positive trends. However, I wish that, under similar good conditions, other regions could function and revive and progress as quickly as the central Slovenian region. We have before us a law on elections, the first elections. If I look at my area, maybe there will be quite a majority of 55 representatives from Ljubljana, 15 representatives will only be elected representatives of the periphery or the outskirts of Ljubljana. But I still think we're going to have a lot more weight than we had in the former town halls of Vič-Rudnik and so on. And all the authorities or governments of the country have been explaining and predicting that the differences between the regions will be shrinking, and in fact we are constantly growing, which means that something is missing. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm out of time. [[...]] In my opinion, we lack the provinces, so I am confident that we will decide for this common goal, for Slovenia all Members and Members and vote in favour of [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Boruta Saiovica - he's gone. Dr. Slavko Gaber has the word - he's gone. Member Geza Juban has the word - he's gone. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor, please. You're giving up. Thank you. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Surely the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council is the law that we can at least read to him. Nevertheless, I mathematically checked what the proportional number of saints should look like in relation to the inhabitants of the mountainous or northern coastal region, as I prefer to say, and I think it would be more appropriate to return the name of Primorska to this area. In fact, of the 118,391 inhabitants of this region would have 37 saints or 3199 inhabitants of one sacred city in the province’s world. It is interesting how they are, since it is not possible to accurately calculate to the last inhabitant, how the proponents rounded the saints up or down. In the center of the region and in its vicinity, according to the number of inhabitants, the saints were rounded up, in the periphery of the region, in Posoča, in Idrij-Cerkljanska, and in the Vipavska Valley. This cuts the relationship between the centre of the region and the periphery of this region's reference of 0.66 or 0.70 saints, and this is not so small after all, or this just confirms my thesis that the benefits of the provinces will have mainly in these 14 centres of these provinces. In this particular case, say, in Novi Gorica or Kranj, Ljubljana, Maribor, Ptuj and I do not know where else, while at the edge of these landscapes they will draw more or less "the short one". If you counted the other 13 regions, it would be interesting to see whether they were also converted up and down at the saints in the center of the province. For example, Nova Gorica is supposed to have 11.56 saints, and it's surrounded by 12 saints, and in Idrija comes 5.3 saints, and it's rounded down to 5. The same in Tolmin and the same in Ajdovščina or in the Vipavska Valley. That's what I'd say again. The edge of the landscape kind of pulls out the short. On the other hand, let us say how we will exercise our interests, for example, the Idrian-Church sub-region with five saints to 37 seats in the entire provincial parliament. Very large and strong coalitions will be needed between the individual areas in order to maintain balance with the centre of the province. Nevertheless, I think that the whole package of this provincial legislation needs to be improved. I said this morning about this debate that we are in no hurry to ask citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia first whether they want to establish provinces in the Republic of Slovenia, or not - let us say that we have already asked them whether trade should be open on Sundays. And if the result of the referendum were positive, and I believe that it could be positive, then we would continue with this project. In 2009, we would have concluded in peace the amendment and complementarity of this legislation, regardless of whether they were in the midst of an election, because the President of the Government himself said that it was not a project of this government, but a project of the whole of Slovenia, and then there was virtually no special role for the elections of the national elections. Thus, in 2010, the provincial elections, together with the local elections and the provinces, could be conducted in practice and fully revived as of 1 January 2011. I do not imagine that all this legislation could be implemented and enforced by 1.1.2009. Nor do I postpone the election to the provincial councils, it is said, a good half year after the adoption of the legislation in September would have a combined national and provincial elections. I believe that it is necessary to take some more time, without being nervous to adopt this legislation, of course, to check the whole story at the referendum and then finish this story in the next term. Because I think that the achievement of this mandate was already that we changed the Constitution and made it possible to establish the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Franca Znidarsich. He's not here. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I didn't even mean to come to this debate, but I have to say that I'm really surprised when I listen - and I'm not going to say anything other than nebulosis here today. Look, Minister Zhagar gave us a table today. It is clear from this table that if I want to, I will say the Zasav region, which I know more because I come from Zasavje, to the extent that the Zasavska region wants to reach the central Slovenian region or the Ljubljana region in the proportion of GDP it will take 31 years. These are the Ministry's records. 31 years in the event that the saviour region or the Ljubljana region should no longer develop. Do respected colleagues and colleagues mean the establishment of regions, landscapes, that the regions themselves will now somehow stabilise or equalize? Tell me what this means other than that it will be necessary to bring the pomur region or the Sava region closer to Ljubljana, so that it will be necessary to anchor or close the tent. A hand on the heart, this law or a package of laws within the framework of the provincial law itself, a respected colleague and colleague, will not allow equal, equivalent regional development unless we first push the Ljubljana region or the central Slovenian region against the wall. On the other hand, you know, the distinguished Minister, the Kamnik-Sava region - tell us what they have in common: Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Zagorje ob Savi, Lithia, Šmartno, not least Trzin, Kamnik, Mengeš? About 80 kilometers, I said, is from Trbovlje to Kamnik. I hear for the first time that the Rippers and the Stones could be compared to anything. This is a disaster you're going to today. I'll say, with your left hand, you're adopting important legislation. It's not a joke, my respectable colleague and colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Miran Jerič has the floor. Member Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The draft law on elections in the first provincial council refers to the law that we have dealt with by establishing the provinces by means of its technical solution. The solutions in this law are trying to go in the direction of equal representation as far as possible with regard to elections to the provincial councils and are trying to take into account existing electoral units, which I think is good. Election units are to be formed in accordance with the principle that one member of the provincial council is loved to approximately the same number of people, regardless of the boundaries of the municipalities, but within the province. It is true, however, that the legal solution does not provide individual congregations with separate cities in the provincial councils and that the congregation may also be without a representative in the provincial world. This I must say is quite difficult for them to understand on the ground, because in a different way it is to participate in the provincial councils than, say, in the National Assembly, although it is true that it is equally elected as Members of the National Assembly, it is according to a proportional system. For this reason, in accordance with the proportional electoral system, we can believe that lists of candidates for members of the provincial council and the coalition will be drawn up in a more political and independent manner than territorially. However, it seems important to me that the indirect elections of the President of the Regional Council also allow for the election of candidates from municipalities with fewer inhabitants. The law or the bill stipulates that electoral units are provided for by law only for the first elections in the provincial councils and that, following the establishment of the provinces, they are left to decisions in the provincial world. For reasons of rationality, I think it makes sense for the elections to be held in the provincial councils at the same time as other elections, probably early elections to the National Assembly, but it would make sense to consider, together with local elections or possibly the elections of Members to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you, too. And I call unto the word the apostle Joseph the son of Shiloh. But I ask the representatives of the LDS, on behalf of the Group of Members, you have waived further discussion so that I will not always call you. Then I sincerely apologize to you, my mistake. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues you're still insisting on. Two thoughts were born to me listening to some of my colleagues and colleagues. These are not the data of Dr. Ivan Žagar, as a colleague once waved and said that these are non-bulosun data or not, these are the data maintained by our statistics, and I think the Minister has also warned us, and another colleague to look at the data on the website of the Statistical Office. Another thing I'd like to say. As we have a variety of electoral units for elections to the National Assembly, so we have, given the fact that we were talking earlier about a law that should have 14 provinces, we also have a different number of inhabitants in individual provinces. However, if we look at it, in this law, which we are considering today and which he has given his colleague Sam Bevk a lot of attention to, I would only partially agree with him. He pointed out this to Goriška, which is actually true, but if I look at other congregations and in most municipalities is the center - you specifically mentioned, colleagues, also Novo Gorica. I think that in Novi Gorica the highest vote is needed for one holy place in the world of the province. But I think it was listening within the individual constituency to seek some proportion. Given that this is a comment, I expect that in the further phase of this coordination we can also fix this, but as I was taught in mathematics, which is above 0.5, we rounded up, which is below 0.5, we circled down. And one day you have to cut it. And thirdly, I would like to conclude with this, I think that one of the colleagues in the previous debate, and also at this point in the agenda, was saying how unfair it is, how unfair it is. I think that no one in this National Assembly is "disputing" - not the one who came to the National Assembly, but he had to get 3,000, 4,000 votes for it, like the one who got 400, 500 votes, and he's also in this National Assembly. And we all have the right, and the same thing is "heavy" is this finger that presses "for", "against" or "resistible". In view of all of this, I will support this bill's proposal, with some things likely to need to be harmonised in the future, especially when - I think one of the colleagues said - that if there are changes to that previous law, which we have already discussed, there will probably be a need to add a congregation here and that this may lead to an increase in the number of councillors in individual constituencies.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Comrade Bajc, I know you know that on average the electoral unit for the National Assembly is 17,000 electoral beneficiaries, the margin is a minimum of 13,000 and a maximum of 22,000 electoral beneficiaries. In the case of the provinces, we have a case of 400,000 people and 60,000 people. We continue the debate. My colleague Bojan Kontic has the floor. You're giving up. The speaker has the floor. Minister, the closing statement? No, no, no. We still have time to discuss this. Does anyone else have a wish to discuss or can we go to the next point in the set of provincial legislation, this is the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces? I'm opening the application procedure. Two MPs have been reported, each of them has five minutes. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that we are discussing a package of laws relating to the establishment of landscapes and other models related to this, I will, of course, also link the treatment of the law and also the treatment under the previous item of the agenda. For if the first law, which needs a two-thirds majority, is not adopted, then, of course, everything else is irrelevant. However, I find it very difficult to understand those who said that this electoral unit law too would not receive adequate support to be adopted. It's like it's already in advance - you don't know that yet. We haven't voted on it yet! Or someone else who said, "Because we didn't support the first marriage, which is why it's not going to be adopted, we're not going to discuss this law." Me how? What if it's accepted? I hope so. Then why are you giving up the debate? However, you must make a decision by the National Assembly if the matter goes forward. And I sincerely hope that we will be able to have the strength to adopt the country's legislation. Because it is a major step in the decentralisation of Slovenia and it is a major step towards balanced economic development. It is clear that the adoption of this legislation will not in itself achieve this, but it is a basis for making this significantly easier to do. I also find it very difficult to understand the colleagues of the current largest opposition party who are discussing - although not everyone is discussing the same, one is discussing arguments relating to the content of the law and which are worthy of respect. And of course all these arguments can be faced once the procedure goes forward, that the matter will continue to be coordinated and probably many of them can then be included in this legislation at the next stage of the adoption of the law. Because someone has some substantive comments that are worthy of respect, it is not necessary to reject the procedure for the adoption of the law. For the damage that will result from this will be great, and the responsibility for this will, of course, be for those who reject the law. Well, the other type of debaters, of course, is distinct, I would say, the debates are eloquently political. No arguments shall be used. But it was said that we would not adopt legislation because the laws were not sufficiently substantiated and because they were not well prepared. I mean, that's not an argument for me! In this case, however, the question arises why the institution of democratic centralism is still being used, whereby decisions are taken at the summit, regardless of the position of the base. And also here, when the province's legislation is being adopted by a very large majority, indeed the vast majority of municipalities, the vast majority of mayors, where representatives of the party currently the largest opposition party, as well as the vast majority of municipal councils have made it very clear that they support legislation that means development. And yet, on the basis of democratic centralism, you say that you will not adopt legislation. That's not acceptable to me. It is clear that no proposal for a law is ideal, so the procedure in Parliament is such that it is possible to upgrade the law in several stages and once, as far as possible, it is well coordinated and refined, it is finally adopted and so is possible now. So I don't think it's acceptable for someone at the top to decide, so we decided, "hawg," and so be it! It's unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. And the final discusser, Ambassador Tomaž Šteba, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister. With regard to this part of the province's legislation on the electoral system itself, I have already tried to propose some adjustment to the electoral and voting system in a way that also part of such a large region, because the province of Ljubljana was extremely large in those proposals, had the possibility of having any influence or being elected, and in some way also to decide on important matters concerning such a province. There have been several options: one is to follow the example of the European Union, a double way of voting that in important matters such as, say, budget and similar matters, a vote is taken and also voted in the way that a certain number of municipalities are involved. Of course, this causes some problems. Well, when we have only reached a general consensus in our area on the formation of the now-unfortunate Kamnik-Sava region - given that the mammals are now deciding not to be in this province. And it's really not as natural-geographical, cultural, historical as you want - as you would like. Perhaps the Posavniks belong more in the context of the Sava, Zagorjani and Hrastnijani in this part, or in the jester, or in the Savina or Savinian part. I have somehow come to terms with this way of voting and voting. In view of the fact that, at least in the domed-kamni area, there was a perfect consensus, and also in the Lithuanian region, between the mayors and the municipal council and us Members, even though we were not involved in the debates, we had to agree in some way with such a structured landscape, which in fact made some progress in the balance of the provinces in Slovenia. The province of Ljubljana had somehow decreased and if Zasavje had been included in it, then this smallest province would have become more and more comparable to other major provinces, so formed in Slovenia. However, I must also say, in this general framework of the adoption of provincial legislation, that I am extremely disappointed that a high consensus has been reached on the number of provinces and also on the basic regulation of provincial legislation when we confirmed the amendment of the Constitution. Thus, this constitutionally realistic element of the so-formed provincial legislation for me, and I believed that for a large majority in the National Assembly, too, there is no dispute. Today's general debate on this legislation should be in terms of a debate on improvements, but not by the vast majority of opposition Members of Parliament completely rejecting it. To take the next step, says the first reading, we are trying to find greater and better consensus and better regulation of legislation. Not to reject things in this first step of the general debate! I'm afraid, and I have to say that maybe it's in the background of interest, I'll say simplified, red tape. Some fear that there will be no more administrative units, that there will be only 14 so-called provinces that will take on the role of these 54 today. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] administrative units and that a large number of officials from various agencies today will have to work - not from Ljubljana, but from the provinces. I think it's up to all those who refuse to influence today. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with your debate in connection with the second item under consideration today. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Friday, tomorrow, 1 February, in the framework of the votes. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving on to 19. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the integrity of the premises under the regular procedure. We have 5 hours and 10 minutes for the scheduled debate. The draft law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Therefore, in relation to this bill, a group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. However, for the introduction, I give the floor to the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy. Mr. Ivan Jagar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the provinces that you have in general today, i.e. in the first reading, is closely linked to the substantive laws, but it is true that this law could be finalized after we have in some way agreed on the content that is being passed down, i.e. from the state to the provincial level, and are enshrined in the Law on the Provinces. This law was extremely demanding with regard to coordination at this government level, i.e. in inter-departmental coordination. And this law needs to be read together with a decision taken by the Government on the transfer of powers, financial resources - so we are talking about the transfer of €1.2 billion to the annual level down from the state level down, and I am stressing that none of the municipalities are taking anything. And together with this transfer, the transfer of the relevant personnel is envisaged, so there are no new jobs, but the administrative structures that have performed the provincial tasks so far, on behalf of the State, will carry out these tasks at the provincial level. With regard to this law, given that it relates to the previous law, it is important to stress that this law changes about 50 regional laws. The laws, which were of course written in different time periods, were also somewhat different. This made the drafting of this law even more difficult, but it is probably the only possible way to adopt legislation simultaneously to do so in one step and with one law. There's probably no other option. As regards the transfer of tasks downwards, we define three types of tasks, namely those transferred to the original jurisdiction of the provinces. Within all the tasks performed in the public sector, we have sought out all those tasks which are of the so-called regional or provincial importance and which are carried down and delegated to the original competence. Then there is a large part of the tasks related to administrative procedures, where they are transferred to the execution of the provinces. I would like to stress here that, as I have already mentioned, these coordinations have been held for quite some time and that, in a substantive sense, the competent ministries of our service have been responsible for this coordination function, including professional debates at all ministries. And, of course, bureaucracy needed to be convinced that it was necessary to do so. As this task is now being carried out, the question arises how, unless there is a change of law, it would be possible to reopen the whole story in another debate with similar questions. And, of course, the question of further exploitation in the future, given that it is also in the past, according to my assessment, including the experience gained at this very administrative level, shows the greatest reservations or attempts to preserve or not carry these tasks. However, as many questions are being asked, I must make it very clear that legislation has been adopted at government level, so it is true and there is no dilemma here. As far as this part is concerned, it is quite clear that even with regard to a relatively large number of landscapes, a single system is envisaged and, of course, a gradual treatment is envisaged. The government has confirmed these laws and, of course, as regards the level of government, these laws must also be respected. In the third part, I am still touching, and this has also been repeatedly exposed today, some tasks related to the functioning of the municipalities. On purpose, we did not intervene in the drafting of legislation on behalf of the municipalities. So the congregations keep all their tasks, except in these two cases. We are, of course, talking about cultural institutions that are of regional importance, and we are speaking of course - I think about the question of the realisation of help at home. However, we have already written these tasks down in transitional provisions, if you recall the law on the financing of municipalities. And now this is just the realisation of this agreement. Otherwise, we do not interfere or tolerate or accept the authority and functions of the congregations. Even in some cases in which I agree that this would make sense. However, even in these cases, for example, if we were to talk about waste management, I am not sure that the areas would be interested. Because some areas have solved these problems. It is true, however, that even in these cases it is possible to carry these tasks up, of course, in agreement with future provinces. On this occasion, I also appeal to the honourable assembly to hold a debate. I believe there's something else written down here that needs to be fixed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u167	Mr. Secretary, please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u168	And this can also be done in the future debate, and I believe that we are all open to this too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Franz Jazbec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Respectable. Today we are considering laws from the so-called second package of provincial laws. In addition to the draft law on the establishment of the provinces and the draft law on electoral units for the first elections to the provincial councils, which we have heard a lot about today, there is also a proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces. The proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks is the most extensive law in the provincial package, since it has 407 articles and amends 52 sectoral laws. We can safely say that the preparation of such a law took quite a bit of work and, above all, time and effort to coordinate. The aim of the law is to identify the tasks of regional importance and local issues of wider importance which are transferred from country to country as self-government local communities and which constitute the decentralisation of government functions. The transfer of an important part of public affairs and public funds from the state to the local level is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, while the provinces will carry out their duties independently, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. The proposal of the Law nomotechnically implies amendments and additions to the sectoral laws, i.e. those which specify in particular the powers of the State authorities and may also partly be the municipal authorities. As has already been said, 52 sectoral laws are being affected or amended in almost all areas of Slovenian legislation. Such a form of law may be unusual, but it is most appropriate, as regional laws generally do not determine the jurisdiction of the provinces and because the full powers of the State authorities cannot be transferred to the provinces, the law transfers powers from ministries to the provinces in the area of: roads, spatial planning, housing problems, water, tourism, mining, animal shelters, education, higher education and science, sports, health, culture, protection against natural and other disasters, social protection, work and family and could still be listed. During the drafting of this law, there were quite a few coordinations, both at the level of the coalition and at the level of the opposition. The local communities have also been invited twice to submit their comments. Nevertheless, particularly by the opposition, there are quite a few comments on the inadequate choice of delegated tasks, the inadequacy of certain areas, and some local interests expressed by local communities. Despite all the concerns and doubts raised before the landscapes are established, we must be aware that none of us can know exactly how the provinces will work until they are established. We must first establish the provinces, then hold elections in the first provincial councils and establish the functioning of the provinces. Only time and experience will show how successful we have been in transferring the creation and how happy we have had in transferring the powers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that we have chosen to transfer the correct tasks. Nevertheless, we will listen to all the reasoned comments made during today's debate, we will also examine the comments of the local community and, on the basis of this, prepare any amendments for the second reading. Nevertheless, we believe that the proposal for a law is a good basis for further consideration, so we will fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces interferes with various government departments and is the fruit of negotiations between ministries, even though it stems from the jurisdiction of the provinces laid down in the Law on the Provinces. Let me say that the Social Democrats also acknowledge that difficult work has been done, because from the previous mandate we are familiar with the positions of individual ministries when there was no great willingness to transfer tasks to lower levels. This intervention is certainly also an opportunity when the State, the Government, the individual ministry, can very elegantly avoid the tasks that cause inconvenience and headaches to them today, while retaining certain, read, best staff and abundant finance for those areas that give them respect and political power, and transferring tasks, staff and financial resources to those tasks that are already very problematic and inadequately infrastructure-oriented, such as roads, social, health and cultural institutions and those are likely to be even more. If we are not careful about the transfer, we can peacefully find that individual areas after the transfer to the provinces will be in a very difficult situation, for which the provincial authorities will be unduly responsible. The landscape project may also be dangerous in this regard. First, let me say that the title of the law itself does not correspond to its true content. This law lays down the jurisdiction of the provinces, which are supposed to be the original jurisdiction of the provinces. Therefore, the concept of the transfer of competence is only correct when determining those powers that are actually the powers of the State which it transfers to the province only for the purpose of deconcentration. Otherwise, the Group of Social Democrats, as well as the other laws in the package of provincial legislation, considers it necessary to have a thorough professional opinion and to verify the proposed decisions by cross-connecting the individual laws contained in this package. In particular, we would like to point out that we are missing a detailed analysis of the use of resources in the competent departments to carry out the individual tasks set out in this Act as the original tasks of the provinces compared to the funds envisaged. Of course, this detailed and careful review should also include, as far as possible, an accurate allocation of resources across the different regions, as individual government departments are fully aware of how much resources they are now spending on implementing the proposed delegated tasks in each proposed province. Only then could they step by step recast both the law on the transfer of power and the law on the financing of the provinces. Certainly, a fundamental error was made at the time when the Government decided to send a package of provincial legislation despite also warnings from the Social Democrats to the National Assembly in two packages. It is especially unusual to see a wide variety of topics in the three marriages. If we were to divide the package into two groups, it would be more meaningful to link the province law into the first group, and the province financing law and the jurisdictional law, and the laws on the establishment of the provinces closely linked to them, and the law on elections and electoral units into the second group. But all of this is a past that can't be returned. The fact is that the law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces raises a new set of questions that no one can give a satisfactory answer to. If we're going straight. The provinces are expected to take over mining tasks, asking how those areas where mining is being closed and the consequences of mining are being remedied, Idrija, Zagorje, Senovo, Kanjiarica, Mezica, Trbovlje, Hrastnik, will carry out tasks under each regional law, and when no selective funding is provided in the Land Financing Act in relation to certain tasks specific to the narrow selection of landscapes. A similar question arises with regard to the acquisition of individual regional hospitals. According to the law on institutions, it is clear that the founder is responsible for the loss of the institution. How individual areas in which general hospitals are providing funds to cover accumulated losses in most hospitals, which are now not even successful by the state or may not want to cover because the hospitals will still be transferred to the provinces. Neither in the law on the financing of lands nor in this law is there any way to resolve this embarrassment. The question is also whether the central Slovenian province will receive its regional general hospital. And if I talk about the Savinijsko-Shale region at this point, will Topolšica Hospital receive the status of a regional hospital and when it will receive this status. A number of questions are raised as to what will be done in the area of social networks, where investment in individual institutions is neglected for years, and the needs and expectations are very high, as in the case of homes for older citizens, different home care institutions, institutions for people with special needs. There is certainly a lack of regulation of firefighting as it does not provide for the transfer of the establishment of public establishments with professional fire brigades, which are almost fully regionally organised and are only due to the absence of a country, the funding obligations following the dissolution of the municipalities' communities belong to the individual municipalities where these institutions are established. The area of economic public services of regional importance is completely neglected in this law and in provincial law in general. The country already retains its exclusive competence in the road transport sector, although it is generally known that there are areas where the most can be done at individual accelerated development, especially public passenger transport. Even in the management of waste and waste water and the provision of drinking water, which could be converted into provincial jurisdiction by amending the law on local self-government, the provincial legislation has been completely avoided. The fact is that the poor use of the European Structural and Cohesion Fund means that there is an urgent need for the planned implementation of the subsidiarity principle in this area as well. And it is not always more effective just to carry out individual tasks at a lower level, it is often quite the other way around, and this is seen precisely in economic public services. We are particularly reminded of the position of libraries, which would make sense to arrange them as museums are. This could eliminate the inconvenience of financing and user rights for a quality service that cannot be limited by municipal borders. Questions are also raised in the areas of education, higher education, sport and so on. We received comments from the municipalities of Slovenia days ago, which on 11 pages point to dilemmas and perhaps even errors that need to be addressed in this law. Their conclusion is that, while the provinces will have the means to do business, they will have the means to do business, not the means to develop. In this way, the provinces will by no means be an instrument for reducing the differences between the development of individual areas of Slovenia. It is particularly important to note the need for a precise delimitation of the jurisdiction of the provinces and municipalities in the area of space, the care of animal shelters and so on. It is also pointless to legislate another regulation of the residential area at the provincial level, while maintaining it at the state level and with open debates about what will happen to municipal housing funds. The Community also proposes the abolition of the agricultural land fund in a way that transfers of property and personnel to the municipalities, therefore, not to the provinces. The comments raised are also very large on the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks under the jurisdiction of the provinces, calling for a thorough and constructive verification of the eligibility and, in particular, the financial coverage of the whole type of province's tasks. Without a critical assessment of the entire package of legislation, the Group of Social Democrats cannot support the law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you so much for surpriseing us. My colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you, Vice President. I'll try to surprise you, too. Since I'm on this stage for the third time, I don't know if that's even possible. I am thinking about what to say in this third act about one of the laws we are talking about today. In the LDS Club, we made it clear in the first law that we are not covering this law on the establishment of the provinces and that this law is based on all the problems involved in the drafting of this comprehensive legislation. This conclusion is that the landscape is too much, that these landscapes are unevenly populated, that their numbers are therefore illogical and inappropriate, and that some also have spatial illogicalities and some other element does not hold any judgment. So all of this is the reason that these dilemmas are even more so in this law that we are considering now, this is the law on the transfer of powers or tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces. These small regions are simply raising the question of whether they will be able to accept and carry out all the tasks that we want to pass on to them by this proposed law. Not according to our judgment. In our view, the key to reaching an appropriate agreement is to reduce the number of landscapes, to round up larger, more rational ones, in particular those with economic development potential within them, which have sufficient human resources and clearly have sufficient financial potential. In one of the Slovenian newspapers, economists were asked what they thought about regionalisation. In fact, everyone is finding that the basis for good or successful regionalisation and the development of the regions is a good economy. I will quote some of them: 'The condition for successful regional development is, of course, the economic development potential to be recognised in each region. Without the economic core of each region, we will find the objectives set difficult to achieve." Are we, or have these laws taken into account by the government? I don't think so. Second statement: "Unquestionably, regionalisation is not in itself a marriage for the faster development of the country. It is merely a statistical prediction, but without real incentives it is only a waste of time." The law we are currently considering, the law on the transfer of tasks, does not show that the Government intends to meet these expectations in the development field and here is the basis for our doubts. Next statement: "I think it is wiser to invest in fewer large projects with real development opportunities." Large projects give birth to large landscapes, large areas, great interests, great vision, great ambitions. There's not going to be one in the small landscapes, in a lot of different places. Next statement: "The regionalisation of Slovenia can prove to be an important development factor if regions have sufficient economic and political weights." This criterion, too, is not expected by economists to do so. Just a few of those statements. There's more, I won't quote them any further, because it would be too long. But we attach this and such thinking to the Liberal Democracy. When we try to assess whether the law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces adequately covers the tasks to be performed by the provinces, we are once again challenged and it is clear that in the drafting of this law, the profession has been excluded, that the list of tasks has been set by ministers in principle: I sacrifice those tasks and those people that are not the most important and necessary to me, or even more. It's a lot of territory or some job that sounds like after that. We don't have ministers here, we can't ask them, they can't explain it to us, so we're going to run out of answers. At least for some of these tasks, I wonder whether the applicant has sufficiently examined the consequences of the transfer to the provinces and whether he has even asked those who will experience these transfers. They are operators in administrative units or performers and those carrying out these tasks in ministries or in certain other institutions. Are there any analyses that might mean organizational, functional, and financial things? Unfortunately, we do not have this information and the rest are in the cabinets or I think, and I suppose some have not been made at all. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that at least at this meeting all ministers concerned should be present for the answers to the questions raised with regard to the transfer of tasks. While the Minister explained in his presentation that it was indeed the competent ministers for the assessment and proposal and delegation of tasks to individual provinces that the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development took over the coordination of these tasks. I believe this is all true, but coordination alone does not allow in-depth answers to the question and therefore we think that this National Assembly is handicapped today, that it simply cannot get answers to those questions that may arise in today's debate. This law violates 52 laws now in force, a lot of regulations under the law, and we should just believe that everything is proposed and written correctly and most appropriately, just because we have such brilliant ministers that they need to believe. And only those ministers in dialogue with Members, if they are not yet in dialogue with someone else, have said and explained why they have decided on what grounds, what arguments they have proposed to transfer certain tasks. And this abstinence, in my opinion, shows that we are underestimating the National Assembly to underestimate those contractors in areas that are being transferred to another form of organisation. And you need answers. And thus underestimated the people of Slovenia who also want to have answers to these questions. Let me illustrate with some dilemmas that I don't know how to answer. The area of traffic, the transfer of roads to the province's jurisdiction - except motorways, fast roads and other infrastructure, which does not belong in the area of roads, is all transferred to the jurisdiction of the province. And that all these tasks, maintenance and management of these roads should be carried out by the provincial authorities, so we understand this text, but we do not mind and believe that much of this is necessary. However, we do not believe that we are capable of ensuring the same quality of maintenance and management, the same standards of maintenance and management as we have now achieved in such a way that at least this aspect has been ensured in a single place. Whether Slovenia has the potential to provide adequate employment on an equal footing across the various professional areas. We don't think she's here. You just can't replicate some specialists, experts working for a particular area today, and say, "From now on, you'll be working on the landscape." They're gone. And that's the problem that happens in this area. And this answer, we believe, can only be given by someone from the Transport Ministry, especially the Minister of Transport. As far as the others are concerned. Cultural institutions. We read how surprised the leadership of the New York theater is. She knew nothing about the fact that she was becoming a regional or provincial institution, that no one had talked to them, and not only with them, but also with other institutions that were becoming provincial, had no discussions. With none of the museum’s directors, with any of the archive’s directors, no one actually comes into a situation where the situation will be completely changed, in a position to know what and how someone has invented something. As a result, there is a dilemma as to whether these funds that are being transferred are sufficient or whether certain needs and ideas about whether the congregation will not be a cofounder should be given to the congregation in its own land. These are stupidities that in practice cannot be realized. And these things would be and need to continue to be cleared. Fund for cultural activities, as one of the activities in the field of amateur cultural activities. It took some time to form an appropriate fund, which is now performing an excellent role in the field of amateur cultural activities. It is organised by district units and thus has 58 positions of the Fund. In this context, not bureaucrats, not officials, are working, but people who know culture, who are co-creators of culture, who participate in events that not only take place at your time of work, and with this law, Minister Simoniti has decided to break this fund. The wrong move, which will have consequences for a long time and therefore we think, is the reckless doing of someone who should primarily care for this unity, for this quality of culture that is now achieved in this way. An official who, by this logic and by what we read, would sit in his office, cabinet, cannot replace the one who today created culture, co-create culture and organize culture. Earlier, something had been said about provincial hospitals, health homes. It is clear that this year's issue is specifically raised that it is very exposed to who will cover the obligations, the losses of those institutions that will not operate positively. Today, the state is drowning in loss coverage, today the Health Insurance Office is weakening its coverage of these obligations, and now we will leave this to the provinces, which in this law definitely do not have the funds provided for, potentially, to cover these obligations. And that's the question that needs to be answered. Spatial planning. We, in this mandate and a while ago, have been working on spatial planning like a pig with a moss. When the law is adopted, even if it is not yet in force, it is not even carried out in the procedure, and not all procedures have been carried out, we are already changing them. And again today, as a consequence of this law, we are modifying these laws or transferring responsibilities. At least here, I think, or we think, we might be able to retain at this first stage the transfer of this power, to live in practice something that needs to live, and from here on out, possibly to the provinces, not to mention the dilemmas where the border is between municipal powers and the province, why one and the other issue more spatial plans and on this basis issue building permits, something that is not particularly clear at this point. And finally, that I won't be too long and take the time of anyone else from our parliamentary group, the housing fund. We are talking about how we need to regulate housing prices through our housing fund policy. We have, I don't know, about €400 million of capital in this housing fund, which we don't deny or recognize as the most economical business or the largest buildings, but the assets and housing funds are formed in the provinces, the fourteen provinces, some of them so small that they don't meet the minimum criteria to create some amount of resources that you can make a policy with. We have no doubt written into the law and now we make fourteen or we propose to make fourteen provincial housing funds. These are the questions that require answers, unfortunately, the Minister is not here today, unfortunately in the LDS we do not think that we can get the appropriate answers as well, and this will be the basis for us to decide, at least in the vast majority, if we do not fully support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. My colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the Nova Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thanks again for saying that. In the New Slovenia Group, we have warned throughout the process of preparing provincial legislation that we will support this provincial legislation by clearly defining the tasks that will be transferred from individual ministries to the provinces and thus appropriate financial resources. Today we have this marriage ahead of us. The law is primarily linked to the funding of €1.2 billion transferred to the provinces. Surely we can be satisfied that individual ministries have gathered so much courage and have given up, equivalent to the weight of certain tasks. Not only two, three ministries, one more, one less, but equivalent, roughly all the same. We were not most pleased a few months ago when we somehow received the work material because it indicated how ready individual ministries are to give up the task. This is where the Ministry of Education only resigned. And given that today we have here in this law the tasks that we in the New Slovenia Group at certain times begin to think that maybe not even too many of them, then it is certainly a guarantee that we have transferred what we wanted to to the provinces. We are of the opinion that if we establish the provinces, these provinces must also carry out important tasks. Otherwise, there are tasks in the law that will be carried out legally. In fact, funds, funds of EUR 1.2 billion, are provided for these tasks. I'm sure there's still a lot of open things that some people have warned me about. In view of the fact that we have different institutions in different provinces, institutions that will also operate within the landscapes in the future. We are convinced that it has been easy to pass on all social protection tasks or what they are doing today in nursing homes and so on, because in the final accounts of the previous year it has also been quite clear how much money these institutions have spent. On this basis, financial resources for the provinces are also identified. So in these cases, it probably wasn't some hard math. It is true, however, that certain adjustments will have to be made in certain areas in the future. We are confident that certain adjustments will have to be made during the first and second stages or during the third treatment. And it would be good to also make concrete good proposals, not just in this legislation. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the legislation or the law prepared is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u178	Dear President! Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that for the first time in fact, very serious work has been done, as the powers of the State, which should have been transferred systematically from 1.9.2009, of course, if the whole package of legislation is adopted, to the provincial level. We believe that this is an extremely large work done. The proposed law aims to identify the tasks of regional importance and local issues of wider importance that are transferred from country to country, such as self-government local communities, and constitute the decentralisation of government functions. The transfer of the management of an important part of public affairs and public funds from the country to a local level is in line with the principle of subsidiarity, while the provinces will manage their tasks independently in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. The powers exercised by the State are different in nature. Some are able to transfer them to provincial jurisdiction and others are, by their nature, necessary to be implemented at national level in the general interest. So through state authorities, it's one for the whole country. However, it is possible to distinguish those tasks which, by their nature, are national tasks, which are therefore important for the country as a whole, from those which, in the interests of the State as a whole, can only be carried out by the State authorities, from those which the State may transfer to the exercise of the provincial authorities, but under its supervision and on its own account. The State transfers part of its tasks to the provincial authorities primarily because it is more prudent to carry them out at a lower level that is closer and more accessible to citizens and because it is appropriate to adapt the implementation of these tasks to a certain extent to the needs and circumstances of the province. This approach is also accompanied by a draft European Charter of Regional Self-Government, whereby, in the case of delegated powers, the provincial authorities should be given as much discretion as possible in adapting the exercise of these powers, specificities and landscapes and their organisational structures. In the Slovenian People's Party we support such a way of transferring tasks, and in fact we are also pleased that the proposed law, which has financial implications, which are provided for by this law and are in fact with the tasks that are being transferred, also with the envisaged funds, which are estimated at EUR 1.2 billion, and which have also been adopted by a decision of the Government in the past year. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik will move the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Let me start a little different this time. It is certainly necessary to recognise and commend the enormous work done to bring together this enormous material, both in the first part, when it comes to original tasks and later delegated tasks, a basis which, in any event, will be a good basis for further thinking and decision-making, regardless of the schedule of procedures for this regionalisation. However, there is something to be pointed out. In a way, we have been burdened by European funds, so to speak, burdened by regionalisation, we have virtually forgotten the problem of local self-government at the first level. This distinction between the present country and the current municipalities is not a final process. There are many areas that require further reflection on this relation of the municipality:the State, in particular on the relation of the State:City of the municipality. If ever, it has been, and still is, a suitable time for reflection in a triangle, the delimitation of jurisdiction of the country:region: municipality. Unfortunately, this cannot be understood in this documentation or in these bills. Why? Especially since they interfere in some way, depending on actual content and problems, in terms of regional or, if you want, regional, then municipal or inter-urban or functions performed by the city or other non-urban municipalities in a wider interest. This is everywhere else separately, and in some ways we have given up on some of the incompetent municipalities, at least for some functions, now we want to transfer all of this to regions or provinces. In fact, we are in a situation where we are full of talk about decentralisation, but in fact we are doing some other centralisation or giving comfort to some local communities as unnecessary. Because there has been a huge criticism that those who have concerns about quality and proposed solutions, in particular as regards the number of regions, are against decentralisation. Let me put it another way. Someone here today praised the Ministry of Education from the speakers. I think it's wrong. It's logical to transfer the state or want to transfer secondary schools to the provinces. What about primary schools that have been abnormally supported or illogically transferred to the Ministry, and neither to the municipal municipalities nor to the competent, forgive the expression, we are not prepared to return or impose all the care for the functioning of primary education. And then we can't talk about decentralisation readiness, because there's a lot of resources in terms of wages, material costs and more, we leave care to the municipalities about roofs, chimneys and other things, and we don't let them make responsible decisions about the director. It's still in the hands of the minister. Still for each department, the last compartment of extended stay, for each cleaning lady, for each part of the cleaning lady and for each janitor, the Ministry shall decide. This, of course, cannot be an example of genuine decentralisation if it remains that way. It's just an illustration. I'd like to warn all those operating on 1.2 billion transmissions. Transfers between different levels in the country need to be extremely careful in financial terms. As a rule, when it comes to transferring from a local level to a higher level, costs are overestimated. When it comes to the reverse process, the transfer from the state to the lower level, but usually costs, that is legality, underestimated. That's why I'd be very skeptical with these numbers. I believe the government has accepted them. But if I take a bit of a joke, a little statement by the Prime Minister that, in view of resisting the ministries or ministers, the President of the Government and the Minister of Local Self-Government had to allocate their powers themselves, then, of course, it is also a matter of proper evaluation of these funds. Not that I don't want to or know that someone doesn't get me wrong. Another area or other star angle to which to be careful is the so-called transmission of personnel. On the one hand, we place questionable regions where we underestimate the human resources potential of these small regions and expect much from the so-called transfer of personnel from the country to future regions, or, if you will, the administrations of future regions. Let's not be overly optimistic. The quality frame won't go this way. And of course, we also separate the cadre if we take administrative workers in administrative units who are mostly and generally qualified to perform administrative services, but very few such workers are there, or those who would go from Ljubljana for planning and similar services or tasks - even in one of the most important areas of operation of future administrations and jurisdiction in the area of landscapes, this is the area of spatial action. There is more detail to be expected here than there are favourable situations. Today, from the point of view of jurisdiction, some predecessors spoke of hospitals. These hospitals can be a difficult problem, not at all as easy as the text says, all except the clinic and others become provincial and regional. You know, we had this arrangement there until 1989. And of course now the problem is that in Slovenia, professionals and experts know, these hospitals too much that the landscape is more than we need hospitals, in professional circles there appears a number around 7. That's half as much as we've got the projected landscapes. And if we add three more clinics to these seven, which would make sense, it's 10, then the question is, who's going to shut down the hospitals in which we're going to lock them down. Of course, the non-stop and maintenance of these hospitals will take place at all costs, and this tested result in the damage to those users who need hospitals. Hospitals, provincial hospitals or regional hospitals can be listed today. But you have to be aware that these aren't complete, some have multiple divisions, others have fewer. I think the lower number of wards is that the hospital can be independent. And it won't be as simple a rescue business as some think. And I understand that some through the system would like to get rid of what is causing you problems, too. This is by no means in the interest of patients or future hospital users. Even less, when such a system, landscape or regional, shut itself down and will be disabled in one way or another, it is always found in practice, the way to services to a remote hospital, a better hospital and so on. And something else in the hospital area. Some specialised hospitals treated here as future provincial or regional hospitals, whether they are psychiatric or whatever, are usually covering the areas of several regions envisaged today. This is the next problem caused by excessive fragmentation. And since hospitals are too big, except nursing facilities for the elderly, they're going to try to make a complete hospital offer at their kindergarten. Of course, the laziness of the public is very easy to expose, and the resolution is not as simple as those documents provide. Of course, even though I have always advocated as much decentralisation as possible, in this proposal we are building laws of some broad-mindedness that can lead us into other problems or irreparable consequences. Let me just point out one thing. It is envisaged that the province will decide on the mining concession. Please don't do this! Because then we'll have more sand diggers like meadows and something else, because these concessions have already become a problem and we could list them. I hope this doesn't give us the omen of the centralist. There is much more to be said about this vast material. Let me go back to just one more segment, which belongs to the education sector or the Ministry of Education and Sport. This bill provides for, in a cartoon way, a regional sport programme, a regional sport and I do not know what else. Please don't do this! Not all unrealistic desires for football and similar clubs, especially since institutionally we do not have these matters solved. Now this is to overcome the painful ambitions of some environment, that the regions will also finance it. By nature, sport belongs to where people live, and this is the congregation. The State may intervene in such or other matters, but in the case of the provinces there is little place to do so, but it is very easy and very badly abused to the detriment of any other positive activity. Let me finish. As I said in the introduction, a lot of work has been done by the proposer. However, this work has not yet been done so far as it is ripe for adoption, but it is a good basis for continuing this extensive and responsible work quite often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u181	My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Minister. Good evening, everyone. The proposed law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces is changing, as has already been said - some have already mentioned this number before me - 52 laws. This is the number of laws that are passed on average at two meetings of the National Assembly. So for the illustration. An assessment of the financial implications, you've all talked about money, and other public funds, and that's exactly what this transfer of all powers is all about, and I'll count it later, 1 billion 209 million and 728 thousand euros. However, the bill provides for the transfer to the jurisdiction of the provinces: matters relating to the development of the economy, environment, transmission and energy, transport, agriculture, forestry, education, science, sport, health, work, family, social, culture, protection and rescue. And tell me, Your Honor, is this number enough for everything I've counted? I'm saying no. I agree that this is underestimation, and we will, of course, have problems later than before, if we adopt this law, in the Slovenian National Party we will not confirm it, problems with finances, which, of course, will no longer be the problems of the state, but the provinces which will have to help themselves in the way they will. If they don't, they'll be God, probably. Experts from various activities point to the weaknesses regulated by the law on the transfer of tasks and jurisdiction to the provinces. In order to avoid misunderstandings, we agree in the Slovenian national side that there is a degree of decentralisation to be done in Slovenia, but not in this way. We have already said that the package of legislation is ready very quickly, uncoordinated. Even what was coordinated, you have reverted back to disharmony and raised new open questions and new confusing situations. You even overplayed and played the ones who believed you. And when this is done in a way that is essentially necessary in a transparent and legal way, in a transparent way, we will believe in the Slovenian National Party that you are not just doing this because of hiring your own staff in the provinces. I also do not believe that so many people will be relocated in this single system, which provides for the transfer of about 90% of the jurisdiction from the country to the province. It's just not possible to believe. But if this were done as predicted, then please tell me, the move itself, the transfer of personnel and, say, archive documentation will cause enormous costs, loss of productivity and other logistical problems. How we will deal with this and how we will ensure, in essence, the ongoing performance of the works and the transparency normally required by the people of the cities. The solution envisaged by the proposed law cannot expose an effective and development-oriented programme to the provinces. This was also pointed out by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Gregor Virant. But that was too much, you didn't want to hear it, and you didn't want to hear it. I've told you before that you ignored professionally. Proposals were also made in the form of amendments from the congregation association. The amendments mainly referred to the provisions of the law concerning the regulation of coherent regional development, as regards the environment, the very problematic area to which they pointed, namely municipal waste. They do not agree with the arrangements for the transfer of main roads and other public roads, which are now under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport, cannot come under the jurisdiction of the provinces. But mostly municipal waste. This is the problem of Slovenia already today. We cannot agree on regional landfills within the country as to how the provinces will deal with each other. The President of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia opposes the transfer of land from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to the provinces, they are rightly afraid, I ask you very much that in this case there is a great tendency to exert pressure to transfer land from agricultural land to other uses and uses. This will happen because, in fact, the provinces will in some way want to build what is of quality, which today is a source of income for some who still want to work on earth. Experts point out that this law in the field of health is so incomplete that it can also be dangerous to the health of the population. We have previously heard one of the discussers say that the loss will be left to potential public institutions, which are also transferred to the provinces, to the provinces. Pilate will wash the hands of the Government for all the hospitals, for all the health homes that are already so and so, hand to heart, now in the care of the congregations, and they are already a burden, the state still does not want to hear about them. All other public institutions also leave their fates to the provinces and allocate funds that are as they are. I would very much like to see something beautiful in this bill, too, but unfortunately this is not written here and there is also no way to be very, very optimistic when we look at this quickly written text. Although the bill does not provide for spending in 2007 and 2008, if we are talking about a year ago and the current year, because you probably calculated that this would be accepted in last year. But unfortunately, it doesn't give the prospect of surviving the provinces in 2009. Nothing at all. This charity, which you are making from the budget, is kindly said to cover the three serious areas that you are transferring to the provinces. Because of this and other things we have already heard and it is pointless to repeat them, we really do not intend to support this bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I will present myself the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u184	Dearly beloved, I promise not to be too long. I'll be briefer than long. Hand to heart, warm water doesn't reveal this law. In fact, it is only a matter of transferring certain state powers, which are hidden, to be directly within ministries, or to be hidden in various government services. That is why, of course, from this title, I cannot share the congratulations of some representatives of the parliamentary groups who briefly applauded that the Ministry had achieved such a great goal as the drafting of this law. I'm stressing again. This law does not reveal any news. If the Ministry has succeeded in drafting a law with four hundred articles in three years and this is an element of praise, then we must admit to ourselves that we are very modest or, I apologize that we are very quick to share our praises. But I'd like to point out things that I don't think some speakers are in front of me. If we have speeches and the tendency to make our country more decentralised to move decision-making power away from the centre of Ljubljana, then it is necessary to ask ourselves about our principle. A while ago we had a law on the capital, where you all talked together about how it was necessary to have this law, how to give authority, how to make decisions in the capital, that is Ljubljana. Today, everyone in one stroke, because it is a different topic, talk about how it is necessary to decentralise, how it is necessary to transfer competences from our small Ljubljana across Slovenia. But I personally think that if the government were to pursue the goal of decentralisation, it would be possible by means of a simple decree or basic act to transfer ministries to other cities throughout our country. Thus, some ministries would move to some municipal municipalities, thereby showing the Government the first step that it is really trying in itself to decentralize itself. The fact is, the government didn't do it, although we once had some ministries in other cities. This would undoubtedly contribute to what one of the government Members said at the previous point. So the logistics itself, the roads itself, and not least the facilities that the Government builds on a large scale in the center of the city, to the so-called remaining areas within our country. But of course there's another point. Is centralisation or, in other words, decentralisation really the intention of the proposer, not least of the members of the National Assembly, as a target pursued within the framework of a package of provincial legislation? I'm afraid not. The facts speak of that, which is the way we accept it, we convince each other, even though we know that no one will convince the other. The fact is that we are trying to convince the already convinced and that I do not believe that anyone sitting here today or the fact that whoever sits tomorrow will decide on the basis of better or worse arguments put forward for this speaker or be behind the seat in an individual debate. The fact is, the government is pursuing another objective. At the end of her term of office, she will have to brag about the end of her current term of office, or break her ashes, about the success of a major project, accompanied by beautiful words already in the title, so that she has brought the province's legislation to life and no one will ask what the life of these provinces is. And from this place, of course, I will return to the discovery of warm water, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is no different than the fact that some of the tasks already in existence at the Ministry will not be remembered by any new tasks that would really make life easier for citizens and citizens within our country, but by body B instead of body A. The price of the service will be the same, waiting types will be the same, some even argue that the waiting line will be extended, that prices will also "renewable" because this will try to obtain some additional funding. However, the fact is that it will be necessary to provide quite a lot of financial resources for the very human infrastructure to carry out its activities, and that it will be the paid officials of the provincial councils, the heads of the provincial councils, then I know that saints of mayors within the provincial organisations and, last but not least, they will need a building, at least on the basis of the most powerful government party we know that their palace has undoubtedly cost over two million euros, or they will, of course, borrow it and pay expensive rent. In short, according to my assessment or rather, according to the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Republic of Lip, this is not a matter for which it would make sense to applaud and praise all the weights. But on the other hand, as it was said, it was a contractor of the Lands Act, the government had to come with it. [[...]] [[background speaking]] On the other hand, it should be noted that this consignor is in line with the basic law, namely the Law establishing the Communities. [[...]] And if we have previously found, compared to the previous law, that we have individual regions or constituencies for the provinces badly exploited, because the basic law is bad, incorrect, of course, also with the current law in this treatment, according to our assessment, the same. Therefore, from the title of all the criticism that I think was constructive and realistic, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u185	I now invite Mrs Mario Possonec to present the position of the national community. Here you go, please. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone! First, I'd like to give you a few views, a desire for self-governing national communities. They expect, in relation to secondary schools with Italian language and bilingual secondary schools, that their co-establishment be so regulated and divided between the country, the self-governing national communities and the two provinces which contain the national communities. They also want national communities to participate in the development councils of cohesion regions, which include municipalities with national mixed areas. In the development programmes of the provinces involving municipalities with national mixed areas and in the regional development programmes, the role of the Italian or Hungarian national communities in these areas and their further development should also be included. In the context of spatial regulation, in their view, it is necessary to preserve and develop the cultural heritage of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the provinces which include us, if I should make it easier, and in this regard they believe that it is also likely that the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities will have to be included in this list of 52 laws which are to be amended in order to make them interlocutors to the provinces. I must admit that I cannot yet clearly see what this reform will actually bring to the national communities. I believe that the provinces concerned should be organised and set up both politically and administratively in a way that effectively implements the rights of national communities and in a way that will, in fact, strengthen their position, not weaken. We have little experience with the 1994 reform. We have lost many of the powers we have had, and thus part of the rights in the municipalities, especially, at least as regards the Italian national community, in the Community of Coastal Communities. Many of the efforts we made at the time in regionalisation of Slovenia, including the Basic Law on Local Self-Government, were essentially aimed at keeping the coastal region as it already existed. For in that environment it was possible to exercise the rights and position of the national communities in a coordinated and rather efficient way. I don't know what will happen when this reform is implemented. Of course, I will not oppose her, we have never acted in a way that if we have nothing to do with something, we will make it impossible for others to have something. That really doesn't make any sense. However, I believe that it is still necessary to approach the drafting of a law on the exercise of constitutional rights for both national communities. Otherwise, it will be very likely that we will be dealing, from this point of view, with two estranged centres. at the middle level and the highest level, that is, the state level. And these rights and this situation will be dissolved as quickly as the national communities actually disappear demographically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you very much. However, we have concluded with presentations on the views of the groups of Members and, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are passing through to the general debate of Members and Members. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A respected choir! This is a very extensive law, essentially for a law that changes to dozens of existing and existing laws. I would like to speak here in particular about this law in view of the changes that await us in the field of culture and the closure of Slovenian mines. I don't think things here are going to be the happiest, because they're going to bring a lot of trouble. Six provincial or regional archives currently under state funding will be transferred to the regional or provincial level. But here the hierarchy is pretty clearly drawn and there wouldn't even be so much trouble here. I am more concerned about how the transfer of 40 other important municipal, medo-Chinese and regional institutions, such as individual museums, galleries and theatres, will be carried out. It will be necessary to re-coordinate the founding acts between a number of municipalities, between the provinces or within the province itself, so that there are already major problems. Only in the microregion, for example, or in the sub-region, in Idrija-Cerkljanski cannot both municipalities agree on the establishment of the library. Not even with the help of the state. It's been going on for years and years. We will now receive 40 new cases of this kind, which will need to be coordinated between the municipalities and the province. So I think it's either half-good or half-bad. After all, museums were transferred to state funding also because heritage is important for the entire nation. This is not an inheritance that would be important locally, regionally, but it is the heritage of the Slovenian people. And in this way, professional standards and standards for the operation of these institutions have been protected. Now it seems to me that we will put these institutions back on a footing, and I believe that the founding acts will be regulated for years and years, a decade before the founding acts will be so arranged that these institutions will function again as normally as they will not primarily deal with themselves, but will - and should - mainly deal with the content. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Lover Culture will be formed. This fund is expected to remain at the state level, while these exposures, including employees, are expected to be transferred to the provincial level. Here, too, we have developed a system that has good experience and works well. So I don't think those solutions were the luckiest. Let's say how complicated this law is and what's hidden in this law, let me say and read the address from the Primorski News today. In fact, only now in Nova Gorica has it been found that the province remains without a national theatre. Of course, no one will take the Slovenian National Theatre from Nova Gorica elsewhere, but this national institution will now receive a regional, provincial level and will somehow be degraded in a statusual sense. In addition, it is the only national theatre, the only national theatre to go to the provincial level, from the theatres we have in our country. He will, of course, remain a Ljubljana theatre, a Maribor theatre, and remain a national theatre. While here it says, "SNG Nova Gorica is transferred to the provincial level." On page 24 of this bill's justification. It's just a New York theater. So much for culture. And the next thing is the mines. The closure of Slovenian mines is also expected to go to the provincial level. Here's the lead and zinc mine in Mizica. I'm talking about closing mines, there's a mercury mine in Idria, then there's brown coal mines Zagorje, Senovo and Kanjiarica and Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik. I can't imagine that this rather complicated problem of mine closure will be passed on to the provincial level. Where will we get the footage that will be able to handle these things? From the point of view, as now the ministry is regulating this, will they be from the Ministry of the Economy - because most of the mines are tied to this ministry - will this staff now move to these new provincial centres or what? In fact, the closure of Slovenian mines seems to me to be a distinct function which should remain at the state level and should not be moved, I do not know, in one case in Novo Gorica, in the other case in Trbovlje, in the third case - I do not know where the province will be located in Koroška. So I would suggest that in the next stages, if this legislation, of course, gets the green light, these things change and that these powers return to the country. I think that would be a much better solution. Otherwise, we'll probably decide one way or another tomorrow. He's self-indulgent at not supporting these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much. However, I call to the floor the Member of Parliament, Paul Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u190	Vice President! So today several things have been said, including some encouraging words or criticisms. Nevertheless, I would have said in this law, although there were other views, that some relatively great work had been done in this law. I am not going to say that this is a very creative work, but it has been a physical and a great deal of work, even if this legislation is not adopted, and I hope that nothing will go wrong with this law and it will be an important segment of some more deliberate legislation. I would say myself that this law, in its form, resembles another document that we adopted or ratified in this national assembly this week. On Tuesday, I think we ratified the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, and this law, which we have before us, essentially takes the form or form of the Treaty of Lisbon. This Treaty of Lisbon amends the other treaties already adopted by the European Union, the Maastricht, the Treaty of Rome, Nico, etc., and this law of ours when transferring powers is amended, but not by five or more, but by 30 or more other laws already in force. Therefore, like the Treaty of Lisbon, it is extremely imprecise and, if we want to understand it, we should understand each other's changes to the same laws that have been amended. Truth be told, I think only a few people in this room have done so. Clearly, I am not, although some laws are relatively good, I am aware of them. I have to say about spatial planning that I don't understand yet, I should look at how this new landscape level is being placed in this system of plans. How is the relationship between, say, the spatial plan of the municipality and the detailed spatial plan, say, the landscape. Who, who and how will be upgraded, how these relationships will be described, is in principle clear, but then, in particular, this difference is that you have now, say, still a general spatial plan and then a detailed plan in the province, but also a detailed one in the congregation, is a whole range of interventions that we can hope for, pray for, some, let's say that it would work. But to tell you the truth, I'm not going to watch too much of this either, because I'm afraid I'd be over-exerting myself. I must say that, with my best will, my consciousness, I cannot present the landscape plan of the Kamnik-Saw Province. I can't imagine what it's going to be like, I'd say, "Rosmaria's child," if I may say. There can be no normal plan in the context of this normal understanding of urbanism, urban planning, let them think and interpret me however they want. The other things I've noticed, and I probably don't understand, are that we have the provincial roads of the first, second and third lines, and then the regional provincial roads of the first, second and third lines. Now I don't understand it; whether this is the case or not, I don't know. I myself know that first- and second-order water management has been transferred to the area of the provinces, but, of course, in my opinion, we risk violating the water directive, which requires management at flood level, and of course these regions will not be the province at flood level. What is this natural marine good of the congregation? Then, probably, the provinces, then the states - what is it? That would interest me. In short, it is clear that in this law there are no things that should happen as a transfer from the country not to transfer or original jurisdiction to the provinces, but from the municipalities up. Above all, I would like to say here to the regional water supply, in particular here I would mention a waste management centre and a variety of other things that are not here. So I must say that this law follows the fate of this legislation in general, and as such I will not be able to support it, even though I would say that all they have done at the Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy is a work that has been done and will be useful for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Of course, my debate will probably also draw a lot of smiles from the proposalers because I will certainly be gleaning more in my debate than giving a synthetic review of my concerns in the light of the legislation that has been put in place. I'm going to go through those areas that I think I know as much as I know them from the current operation as I do, and I'm just going to open up some of the dilemmas. If we are talking about the transfer of those tasks or competences that the Ministry of Higher Education and Science has now been responsible for, which has changed two laws or has had to cut into two laws, here is where the dilemma opens; whether it is a dilemma or not, there has been much debate on which research has been given more emphasis: or fundamental or applied. We will now have another dilemma: which research is of national importance and whose research is of regional importance. Now I don't know if literature at the Faculty of Education or at the Faculty of Philosophy in Maribor will be able to run only for the resources of a regional development or research programme or not, if it goes to its place, but whether it will be in the field of humanities or how these things, such as dialectological studies of an area, will be dealt with. It is a problem of what fate those research or scientific areas that I consider to be of national interest will experience, and in practical life they cannot say that they are making important contributions to the labour market to talk about job growth or something like that. From here, of course, I can go directly to the area of education and sport. As we have seen in some of the past interventions into the laws that this Ministry is preparing, the Minister is taking on a number of competences and thus, on the appearance alone, provides the school space with greater autonomy and a greater possibility of impact on the development path of the school field, the environment in which individual programmes appear. For I must find that if I read the way the individual things are written, in some cases - for example, Article 209 states, "that public schools must obtain the consent of the province to the number of places proposed for registration", and it seems that this is the jurisdiction of the province. However, if you go to read a different article earlier, where the places of entry and distribution are located, the determination of the performers is recorded and only there can it be seen that it is under the responsibility of the minister. The country must first obtain the Minister's consent if it is to give consent to the public office. You know, this is where the questions come to me, is it really what you say is going to be so much tracking the needs and desires of the environment to which the provincial legislation applies? In fact, if I remain in the field of secondary education, where private initiatives are likely to be much stronger than public education, then the question is how will they be established and allocated to these powers, how public schools can compete against private interest, especially because it is not agreed, it is not appropriate, at least the opposition do not know them, the public network or the vocational education network at all; I do not speak, as we do not know the basic school networks well enough and the plans for further development. I'll just say it on one case. During our time, we discussed much about the secondary agricultural school mainly from the point of view of the return of property. Soon there won't be anything to discuss, because the programs connected with these are moving more to Ptuj. And the question of the network of student homes, the functions of the student homes, which will be held by the student homes in the city municipalities. Not to mention the concerns of those dealing with adult education, even in the field of so-called human universities, because there is a clear tendency for adult education to be placed in larger units or existing units of regular secondary education. Here it is also interesting how, under the new law of competence, which it has taken care of in the old country - I refer to Article 24 of the Adult Education Act, where it is now being corrected by simply deleting some of the powers or certain activities that have been carried out so far. This is the second paragraph that speaks of infrastructure activities in adult education and so on. Of course, it is important to read very carefully when we talk about the annual programmes of the provinces, so that one place can be followed by the annual programme of the local community or the congregation, but this same paragraph will then appear as a single article. And even such details could only be mentioned in a quick walk through the bill. However, the one to which the public has already been warned concerns Article 199. of the proposed law, which speaks of the financing of private schools, where 100% of the financing of private schools is introduced. But this is not the only one, if this is a mistake, because the marriage was introduced before it was and I am very well-intentioned and I believe that this is the rest; but what is not the rest has been changed before is that there is no funding system for the participant in primary school. For secondary schools only, funding per participant has also been introduced in this current proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education. This was difficult to achieve in the previous proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We have, of course, advocated that funding for secondary schools should not be introduced after the participant, in the way that the Ministry of Education and Sport understands. Well, that's what's left. This, please, is just a review and it is such a thing that I could read wrong, but now as I have read it, I have read many times, I understand that this part of education, primary school, private school is also reserved. [[...]] In fact, what is considered to be local or provincial in transferring responsibility for the school field from the state to the provincial level is that the applicant ensures that, for example, the supervision remains at the state level. What if I just pull over for surveillance? The weakness of the supervisory authority represented by the inspection service is noticeable. I don't know how the powers of inspection will then be introduced into the future for the school field. Last but not least, the school inspection still has a V.D. Director. This is the problem that we are dealing with in our questions, and I think at least two of us have warned about it, if not more. So the issues raised in this regard are a great deal, especially because the question remains how the state agrees to the programmes is going to be given by the real ministry. Whether, for example, as in private schools, it will take into account only minimum standards for giving consent and if it insists only on achieving minimum standards, then the standards the country is supposed to adopt will also differ between the provinces for individual schools. I now know that, for example, after Slovenia, there are also some primary schools for which I would like children not to have to go - not because of teachers and teachers who would not do their job well, but because of the situation in which the teaching takes place. So if you had promised that this would help to resolve the differences, you would have more understanding of some of the solutions that are here, and you would believe that they can still be worked out, or, as is said to be modern, cleaned up. But just as some things have been solved in culture, such as the transfer of authority to museums, to theatres - my colleagues have already warned. But, say, I'm wondering what's going to happen to libraries, for example. We have ten general educational libraries in Slovenia, the provinces are supposed to be 14. This means that not every province of the general educational library will have the widest, most important function. And what I imagine is how they're going to swear about the financial obligations that will be shared by those who share this function in the library. However, to something small, concrete, I replied in order, above all, to avoid those eyes which we have been hearing a lot lately, that we do not have serious comments, but that we do not say anything concrete, because this is all mere conjecture. There's no speculation, the concerns are serious, and I'm not the one who thinks it's acceptable, even if it's bad, because we're going to fix it later. And I'm not the one who'd pretend to be able to make an ideal marriage, because we know what it's like to have ideals. However, I certainly cannot decide to give my consent to the laws on which there are so many concerns and to hope that they will change later, especially to me, because if we do not now believe that more quality legislation should be drawn up or that it could be adopted in the future, then it is also unlikely to be introduced subsequently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor. He's not here. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I may have a question at the outset, which is a very important question. How can Members and Members of Parliament today, as far as we are in this Chamber, agree on a number of questions that come up to us - personally to me when I went to my brother's explanation of this law? Today neither is the Minister for Education, the Minister for Higher Education, the Minister for Health, the Minister for Primary Education, the Minister for Labour, last but not least in this document is a broad area of social security, which is now being translated from the state level to the country level. I believe that these are so important things that you too, Minister Jagar, do not underestimate you, but do not know in detail or detail. Therefore, it would be very reasonable, in my opinion, if today's general debate is not just another farce of this National Assembly or a government coalition to be the competent ministers. Excuse me, Minister Jagar. See, in the area of social protection, work and family, "amendments of the Social Protection Act are also regulated in a new way by the way of financing social protection activities by specifying exactly what is financed from the national, provincial or municipal budget." Where's the Social Protection Act? Today we are adopting an important document that relates to a very specific area or a matter that is supposed to be defined in another law. But there's no such thing as an attachment to this law. Can I get an answer to the question: What are those powers, specifically, in which areas will be transferred from country to country? Reservoir activity, Minister. In the field of fostering or specifically speaking on financing, it is written: "Implementation of farm payments is carried to the level of the landscapes, taking into account the permanent residence of the breeder." Now I ask you, Minister, hypothetically, but this happens in practice, that the child will be sent to a foster family in another region. Who will finance the parental activity in this case or in which province, the region will be earmarked by the state of finance? But the parental activity is, I'll say, an extended deadline for the state and must remain under the authority of the state, it must. Slovenia is rare, if not the only one within the European Union that has a relatively quality aid system, protection, protection of children who simply cannot live in their home families. What is written in this law in such a way, forgive the minister, does not even have a hint of expertise. It's a bad solution like that. If I go any further, Minister, the area of education that colleague Potrata has already mentioned before me - the funding is being transferred to the provinces. How is the financing of private schools? Is it not possible that this provision in this law is contrary to that provision that is being advocated by the new Minister of Education? I don't know. I'm asking. The area of health care. Today I have received - and this is not the only case, we have already heard, but I will not repeat that problems are causing - a particular issue around regional hospitals. Even health homes. In particular, I believe that you are aware of this, the problem of a regional hospital in the Kamnizawa region. How will the state solve this problem? So she'll say no. According to the news, this is the jurisdiction of the province. Although the State has once promised, it has provided substantial financial resources in the budget for this project, which is expected to come to life if the law or provincial legislation is adopted. Money's not from the state. There's no money. The hospital is going down, but the state is going to say they have nothing to do with it. Will it now be after a new project that depends on the completeness of the landscape? The Kamni-Saw province, which I will say, is not going to go together according to historical or geographical aspirations or the basis. It just doesn't work. And I mentioned earlier that I received a letter today, and I believe that you are also familiar with this letter. Chamber of Health and Granny Care of Slovenia - specific questions are asked by the Minister, are you not familiar? Since I don't have much time, if you answer me, if I have any more replicas, I'd like to introduce you to this; maybe you saved yourself a minute or two if I get any answers to an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u195	Thank you very much. However, Mr Minister applied for the debate. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. This law, which we are currently talking about, although, of course, this law is a very complex law in all its parts, of course, I agree with that. The law is based on previous substantive laws, and the law has been on the table for quite some time, regardless of formal adoption. We already wanted to harmonise this law as much as possible in this procedure. Of course, it is true that the preparation of this law has been carried out by individual departments and, of course, these things have been accurately distributed in that work. In principle, however, I would point out that for the first time, by this law, since many issues have been raised here, we are not prejudiced by legislation in the field of the functioning of the municipalities. Because there are quite a few such questions, including in relation to the issue of culture, it is from this area. I have to answer these questions in general. So as far as the municipalities are concerned, and as far as the cultural spheres are concerned, some of these issues are concerned - we are not prejudiced in this area. When we also talk about this law, we must look at it in parallel with the Government's decision on the transfer of financial resources and competence. In fact, you need to look at it with a decision defining the 2009 budget projection. They shall be carried down together with the tasks of the relevant financial resources, which are now provided for 2009 in the legislation. And also the people who do these things, of course. I am, of course, also talking about this at the general level. Thus this law must be read in this context and, of course, complex. However, with regard to individual issues that have been raised here too, there is a need to go in the field very thoroughly in the specific areas defined within this law. However, I agree with you, of course, that this law must also be read at the same time as individual sectoral laws, but it should be stressed that if we are to reach the provinces, if we are to carry these things down in the substantive part of the matter, then we must simultaneously amend all this legislation. You will probably agree with this because otherwise we cannot reach the provinces and it is impossible to invest, say, 52 novels of individual laws. Also because they are methodologically written differently because they were created during different periods of time, and there is some confusion about this. All the comments coming and coming are, of course, very timely - and that is why this general debate is also necessary - and must also be thoroughly reviewed. I believe that the purpose of the general debate is, in fact, to enter into the legislative process, the very fact that these things, as has already been said, are partly cleared or clarified. Because quite a few of these things are defined within the legislation if we go to see how we are supposed to get rid of them. Of course I do, and let's say this case you mentioned. However, I think that, even in this case concerning education, it has also been explained by the competent ministry that this law does not change anything in the private education funding system. If that is the case and the matter of interpreting the relevant articles, then we will correct these things accordingly. Obviously, there has also been a delay in the adoption of legislation at this time, as this law was previously adopted by the Government, such as that agreement, at least in my conduct, but agreed and reached. And you can be sure that what has been achieved, agreed upon, will under no circumstances change with this legislation. In this sense, we will also fix these things. And probably also some of the things that are in this extremely extensive and difficult marriage. Now it is possible that some areas may be involved. And I'd mention that. The provinces themselves do not mean closing down certain borders. The provinces mean creating some additional competitiveness. We have different areas of development and in different areas this means creating competitiveness. For example, if we are already talking about provincial hospitals, I must say that, as far as this is concerned, I have been speaking specifically, not only with the representatives of the ministry, but with the management of these hospitals. I was all told that the transfer of these hospitals - of course those of a regional character - to the provincial level meant added value to them. It means that they will be able to manage them significantly more effectively, including likely to specialize in certain areas and achieve significantly better results in this regard. This is also discussed by experts who have studied these things with us. Otherwise, this legislation does not interfere with the health insurance system. You need to know, if you look at the budget section, in this part, only that part of the funds has been moved, and this part is reflected in this title, which is defined within the budget. As far as library issues are concerned. According to my behavior and as I mentioned earlier, we did not intervene in the field of municipal jurisdiction, and the libraries are in the municipal domain. It is true, though, that some questions have been asked, since some things have apparently not yet been resolved through the balance sheets. However, in this sense, the provinces may be able to resolve these matters more effectively by means of an agreement, by transferring them up, i.e. on the basis of the congregation and the province. This is similar in some other areas that have been mentioned, including those relating to municipal areas, such as waste management. Nor is it provided for this jurisdiction to be taken over by the congregations. Nor is this because, at the moment, certain matters or comparable matters are effectively resolved in certain areas. I am not sure that in the environment where they have effectively resolved the issue of waste management - and in some environments these are - they would agree that they will now have to move this matter up, with a number of efforts made in this part. Similarly, it is likely that in the fields of libraries, culture and some others, as far as cultural institutions are concerned, I would point out that this is a solution to a situation that we have dealt with in part in the transitional provisions of the Law on the Financing of Communities. And it's actually a systemic solution in this area. As far as culture and fund is concerned, this is my personal opinion, if anything belongs to the domain of local self-government, then it is a loving culture. It is hard to imagine, however, that professional culture is a domain of local self-government, but a loving culture is not. And it would probably make sense to think that this would be more a transfer in terms of municipal jurisdiction. As far as education is concerned. We're here to transfer secondary education, not to intervene in the field of primary education. However, as regards this area, which is linked to higher education and also to the work of research activities, it is mainly meant to transfer the work which is actually applied and given this development opportunity to the provinces. At this point in time, we have quite a few open questions. For example, we have very interesting projects, programmes in different regions, but they don't run like they could if they were provincial. I'm talking about high-level vocational schools within these economic centres. On the other hand, this does not mean that research institutions have access to these funds. However, it means the autonomy of the province in the sense that the province will be able to give its own emphasis to this work. The next, which is extremely important to stress, is probably also a matter of emphasis on sectoral policy coordination. We are here in areas of social activity where we can also have sectoral policies that are also regionally managed in specific areas and are not harmonised. And through the provinces, we want to achieve this significantly greater cohesion, a greater impact of these sectoral policies, with a greater emphasis on the specificities of the landscapes in particular environments. Because questions have been raised about some programmes that are characteristic of individual environments. I think it is possible to regulate them more significantly through this landscape contribution. The questions you've raised, I think they're related to foster care. In this case, it is a delegated task, together with financial resources, and the supervisory function continues to be maintained at the state level, as for all other delegated tasks. The provinces are just taking over. From the headlines that we're closer to the end users, it's better to know things. And that's one of those reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't know if you wanted to understand me, but what you are now in the last part of your answer to the river has nothing to do with my question. I asked you very clearly, and I even quoted what was written in your bill. The implementation of breeding payments shall be carried out at the provincial level by taking account of the resident’s permanent residence. But in practice, the foster parents are not given to the foster family only within the province, that there are foster families also outside the boundaries of a province where the foster father has a permanent residence. That was a concrete question. Second, when you mention that it is necessary to look at laws that are written simultaneously, which are bound by this law. Yes, but the Social Protection Act, which would clearly define the tasks, the financing, the tasks to which the financing is transferred, in what form or quantity to the provinces. There is no such law at the same time. And as I mentioned earlier, even in the area of health care, hospitals, you didn't answer me, Minister. You didn't answer me. Look, the specific question was about the trebwell hospital. I believe you know, a trebwell hospital, it is new to be a regional hospital in the area of the Kamni-Sava region. How's the hospital project? I'm asking because he's still in state, I'll say, jurisdiction. You say that the matter will be developed, that the landscapes will not be limited, they will not be closed to each other. Tell me in particular, where are the development projects under this law? Professional; the layman also warns that this is simply not the case. In what way will you ensure that all the provinces, fourteen, will be equally developed, according to the new agreement? These documents, Minister, do not make these matters clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u200	Thank you. As far as the question is concerned, although I think we have answered this question several times already today, it does not matter. It is necessary to read this law together with the transfer of funds, along with tasks from the state level down. So, in all the complex work - and I have to tell you. The project was calculated for individual provinces, but we did and were forwarded to all parliamentary groups - these calculation projections, if you will. And if you look at the global projections of these calculations, it was through a funding system that is systematically financed from appropriate spending. Appropriate spending is intended to ensure the implementation of current tasks. They are assessed by the individual provinces through the help of the focal points, the costs of carrying out current tasks - this is also evident from those decisions adopted by the Government. And within this work there is still about 27% of the appropriate spending that can be earmarked, I say in a global way, for each province there is a particular need to see if it can be earmarked for the so-called development and investment tasks. This is within this part of the appropriate spending. Within this work, the province will make a sovereign decision on which investments it will give priority. The start of investments, normally, must go forward and this must be determined by transitional provisions. Then we have 25% of the average corporate income tax. This tax is exclusively intended for such tasks, developmental investment tasks. And, of course, from this work too, the provinces will determine their own priorities. At this point, I cannot predict how a particular province will decide, because this is the sovereignty and autonomy of a particular province. And in the third part, we have the structural funds, that is, the European part of the funds. These funds are already targeting individual provinces according to a system that has actually been negotiated with the European Commission. This part is also within this policy, which has now been in this transitional period, i.e. during the financial perspective period, already established, but within these frameworks, the provinces are also deciding in the same way as they are already deciding in this part of the policy. And if we look at it, I'm talking about the total amount of funds, then about 50% of the funds in the total mass are earmarked for so-called development and investment tasks. And within these resources, the provinces will give priority to the part they consider to be their priority. As far as hospitals are concerned, I repeat that from the point of view of the manager, I have had this discussion with many and, in fact, all of them have been in favour of transferring regional hospitals to the provinces, because they estimate that they will be able to manage them significantly more effectively, including a easier public-private partnership, there will be no need to go after all the consent of the competent ministry. It is likely that if we had a province for 10 years, and if this hospital had been defined in law as a provincial hospital, there would probably be no more of these issues today than there would be many other questions that are currently being opened and present, even because of the fact that we do not have the landscape.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u201	Thank you very much. We continue the debate on the basis of the declarations. My word to Dr. Matey Lakhovnik. [[He's not here.]] I invite Ambassador Stanislava Brenčič to the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Davorin Targeton has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Roberto Battelli has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Miran Jerič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u202	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I believe that a lot of work has been put into this law, in transferring the tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces. But I'm not sure we got this story right. I'd be more pleased if you changed, I know it's a great crowd, that it's 52 regional laws, but through the change in the regional laws you would get at least some explanation. The main problem is that there is no valid explanation in this technical law why a specific task is delegated to the jurisdiction of the provinces. Give me three sentences or three explanations why the power to close mines is transferred to the provincial level. I couldn't read it. It doesn't say that anywhere. If we were to change the regional law, I would probably see this and see the financial effects in some way through the explanation of the change in the law. I'll tell you again that this thing must be reckless. The specification of the closing parts of the mines is different and different from the mine to the mine. You know that there was no legal framework in this area. If we look at it, not only the closure of the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine, but the closure of the Senovo Mine, the Kanjiarica and Zagorje Mine. The year 2000 should be closed under the applicable law at that time. Since 2000, we have been closing these three mines without a legal basis. And I know that closing mines, both from a technical point of view, from an environmental point of view, from a financial point of view, is a very demanding project, and it is difficult to foresee in a programme of closing works covered by the law or adopted by the Government that this timetable will somehow be carried out as envisaged. Above all, it is a problem to provide adequate financial resources. Why are these mines closing down for so long? Because every year there was not enough money in annual budgets for the implementation of the closure programme. I'm saying that this task should remain at the provincial level. This thing isn't assigned. I'll tell you, for example, the closure of the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine, that you didn't transfer the financial resources either. You have transferred only the part of the state budget over the years for closing works, but you have not transferred the source or purchase because through the law on the implementation of the budget it is envisaged that the purchase from the sale of mining subsidiaries is also intended for closing works. You didn't see that coming. You didn't see that coming! And I think there's a lot of embarrassment here. Let us understand that it is right to draw attention to these matters and that this matter needs to be reconsidered. This is a big problem for the local communities where these mines lie in our area. So we don't close the mines in half and all the problems, and then we don't have to deal with these problems. I fear the local communities will have to deal with these problems. What Barbara said about the area of health, I think that this area is too under-completed at the secondary level and is also possible somewhere at the primary level. I've always understood because now that we're doing something at the primary level of the local community, we're also getting some funding from the Ministry level. There's a call every year, we can apply for an investment, and we can get some money. Through this system, when I've been watching this, I'm going to say these things I'm not talking about what a stem hospital is, I think it's a hospital where it would actually be necessary to carry out a really big investment cycle in the coming years. [[...]] This is a hospital where basic appliances are missing, I think one of the worst equipped or the worst equipped hospitals on a secondary level in our country is in this area. We also listen to the health problems in Zasavje all the time, and we probably do not deserve to see the state not listen to these problems and through the resources of the state budget or the provincial budgets not allocate sufficient resources to enable this hospital, as it is appropriate, and that Sasavčany or Zasavčany and all those who use the services of the stem hospital receive a quality service. I fear that this arrangement will not be possible within such a Kamenika-Sava region. All those populations in those municipalities, in order not to list them, are likely to gravitate to a abdominal hospital - somewhere else. And I also think that there is a need for reflection in this area. What I'd like to warn you about is only two areas, and then I'll finish. This is the area of spatial planning. We are now or are in the process of adopting municipal spatial plans. We will spend a lot of money on receiving or making, and eventually on receiving, a lot of consent will have to be obtained. We will be in Hrastnik, I am counting, by the end of 2009, adopting the municipal spatial plan, there will be a landscape spatial plan and a landscape detailed spatial plan, and there will be a change - who carried out these procedures again in all local communities? Who's going to pay this cost, did you predict? I don't think so. I wouldn't go to the rest of the area, I think I'd be talking a lot now. I think that it is difficult to reconcile all these powers with the one that bothers me most with such a technical law, and we will also conclude that certain powers, which are at the municipal level today, would, in my opinion, be useful, together with the transfer of tasks from the state level to the provincial level. Paul Gantar spoke of some: waste, not waste collection, but waste management. I think the regional centres should be on a provincial level, regional water supply and something else, not to mention cleaning facilities. And I don't think that thought was enough. That's why I think this thing is too misplaced to get my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u203	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Janko Vebra. It's a microphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u204	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. So, in transferring jurisdiction to the provinces, especially from the country, I would like to point out somehow the fact that is enshrined in this law and relates to roads. It is also a matter of transferring the power to manage the roads, main roads of the first and second classes, so that the main roads pass along the regional roads to the province. And these are the roads that connect the individual landscapes between them. And if we draw upon the experience or experience we have in the last period in providing means for the maintenance and development of state roads, we find that the state budget has largely affected the area of motorways, so that we can also provide funds for other state roads. In this case, when highways remain in the country, a big question arises. Will we have this opportunity, as has the Parliament or budget promoter so far, that a large part of the means from the highway has also been transferred to state roads? If these tasks are to be divided, it opens up, at least for me, a very large question of whether this will make sense and whether that will ever be possible. If it is not possible, the fact that the provinces will in fact have as much resources as they have so far been allocated in this form of organisation for individual sectors has certainly led to very serious difficulties in maintaining, building and, of course, updating the state road network. New sources, concrete ones to solve this problem, I do not see them in these tasks and in these laws that we are currently dealing with. This seems to me to be one of the very big problems that will then be reflected in all the other areas, as it is difficult to imagine the functioning of the province without a structured infrastructure. But if you just invest in infrastructure, then the issue of social, culture, education, sport and all the other powers that the province is supposed to have. As a source that I have not detected and somehow is not sufficiently well represented in this package, it also applies to the Water Act, which is the Water Fund. There is already a very big problem here, because from areas, from all over the country, these funds are actually flowing into the Water Fund. This Water Fund is not included in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but is an out-of-budget consumer, and this money should also be returned to the province where it was also realized where it was selected in the operation of water pipelines, in other wells, both thermal and for the sealing of water and so on. In short, for everything that somehow manages to raise the funds that this fund uses. The next dilemma, which is somehow resolved in these powers, certainly also applies to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. This is where this law of transfer of certain land is touched, and all building lands must certainly come to the municipalities, both wallless and those defined as buildings. Thus, this property is not tolerated, for example, to the Consulting and Management Society, and partly remains in operation of the Agricultural Fund. However, there is also a very large problem in the fact that, in fact, state forests remain under the State's influence, but there is still no appropriate problem of dividing concessions from state forests, so this source is not defined here or in these areas of the province. It seems to me that this is also one of the important shortcomings of this legislation. Well, in other open questions about the transfer of competences, I think that we should still create a clearer picture of whether we have at this moment employees in the individual departments as many people as there will then be a real need for individual provinces to be, say, an organised department, if I may say so, for culture, education, sport, infrastructure and so on. So, let's say that 14 people will come from the area of education in all fourteen proposed provinces. It seems to me that this comparison in this transfer is not yet sufficiently specified, which certainly requires, if nothing else, an increase in the costs of creating new administrations, new jobs. This is also something that is certainly a very important fact when we talk about that the framework of public funds will remain within this framework, as we can design it in Slovenia right now. Thus, I would like to highlight these issues in this transfer of competence, and I think it is really necessary to put some more effort into having an even clearer picture of what the province should do and which people will come to a particular province, where these people will also have their own premises, and then this debate would become more and more concrete, increasingly clear and lastly I think that we could really come up with concrete solutions or develop concrete solutions that are needed to make the whole package truly meaningful. In the opening presentation of my debate, in the first law on the establishment of the provinces, I also highlighted the fact that, in my opinion, if the provinces are to be established, we will also discuss how much we really need ministries to continue to cover all the needs. For many tasks will, however, come from countries transferred to the provinces and I think that there is also a need here or to add another law for this package of landscapes that will define it more precisely, or to give clearer answers in this law on the jurisdiction of the provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u205	Thank you very much. But before I give my word to the next debater, I give him 10 minutes' rest. So, I'm adjourning, we'll continue at 9:20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our suspension session. We are also continuing the debate. However, Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u207	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In this very long debate we have heard a number of things, which would be worth not only one repetition, but quite a number of repetitions, but it has proved to be a very vector-oriented flow from the country to the provinces, a poor transfer of powers from below and, of course, an ever-increasing burden of landscapes. The powers go, the money doesn't go, or you don't know how it's gonna go. Let us talk about culture, education, health care or even more specific things, such as mine closure. It might also stop a little, because it concerns this remarkable monster created by the Ministry and called the Kamni-Saw region. I highly doubt that the region would understand these remote places better in the transfer of mine closing powers than Trbovlje and Hrastnik, as the country now understands. The country has learned something and knows something and knows something about it and may even understand what experts have told her when she was so angry that all this is too expensive. Remember, that was in the previous term. Of course, it is certainly true that this region will be highly unevenly developed and that it will in fact be wiped out in some way in this eastern end. Nothing connects us. What we're supposed to hear from the minister is that there's some developmental perspective that these places have something developmental together, it's not. Of course, there is no historical one, unless we take into the hands of Jurčič-Kernik's Towels, who collected information in Zasavje and robbed in a black grab or there against Kamnik. This is the only history we have in common, and this one is fictional. Don't play with people, either you like them or you don't like them! I will now talk about this in the light of the additional amendments. On 3 October, we started a meeting on the Committee on Local Self-Government, continued on 10 October, and compliance with the amendments was such that it was not. The board went like a train through all the amendments. He confirmed only those who were coalition and rejected all those who were opposition. So they rushed to -- I don't know if there were 60 or how many amendments -- they only did it by reading the addresses and raising their hands for half an hour after the session was over. Then, of course, the minister talks about how something can then be changed, complemented. This must be the case with us so that we can see it in what we call a development perspective. Otherwise, we can close the case. Let a rocky region be established, let anyone who wants to go there. In Hrastnik and the Rippers, however, we create a free man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u208	Thank you very much. On the basis of the list of applicants, Dr. Slavko Gaber should be given the floor. He's not here. And I give the word to Ambassador Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. When we look at the transfer of powers, we see that only powers are really transferred from country to region and from municipality to region. On the one hand, this is certainly illogical. Companies merge for synergy reasons, precisely because of the fact that certain powers are combined. Here are these kind of synergistic reasons, the effects are not expected. Next thing. Some transfers of competence are reasonable, others are certainly executed because the state wants to get rid of certain things that do not fit them and thus push them into the region. Third, however, is the way they carry on unnecessary and unprofitable activities. For example, in the field of scientific research, 14 research programmes will now have to be prepared, and unfortunately we do not have another national one at this time! All of this shows that the transfer of competence is in no way linked to an adequate measure of resources. So, for all that the region will have to do, it doesn't get enough money. And what bothers me even more is that those regions that are less developed, which are under the average of development, do not get enough money to follow the policy of more coherent regional development. And the note that regions should help to make Slovenia more evenly develop, to make less developed areas reach the average, there are no components in this. It all starts and ends with money. The bag in the budget is what it is. Part of the funds will now be spent on the functioning of the regions, the remainder is therefore smaller and the worst part will not be reduced at the level of the country, but will be reduced at this level that will belong to the regions. As a result, of course, such regions are certainly not developing and such regions are difficult to support. There are also many things that the region would expect to be easier to implement now. Not to have to talk to all the mayors in a certain area, but to deal with the regional chief. So the one who runs the region. Such an area, we have already heard of libraries, is certainly also the area of extra-school and educational activities, which throughout the region are then protection and rescue. The above-mentioned regional head may be able to decide on something, but on the other hand he will not have the money to make this decision more concrete. This is the deficit in the law on regions, which is certainly important. Finally, because I am running out of time, infrastructure in certain areas, basic infrastructure, such as plumbing and sewerage, in certain areas are regional deficits, in certain areas it is already completely regulated. So at the start, not all regions will be the same, but at the start one region will be left behind. And, as I said earlier, because the transfer of powers does not have enough financial support for this, these lagging regions will not only catch up, but they will still be lagging behind in this assumption. That is certainly why such a law is not acceptable to me in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The debate was also opened by the Member of the Victory of Jelinčič Noblenit, who is not in the National Assembly. And I call unto the word the apostle Gezo Juban. He's not here. Member Michael Brevc has the word - he is not here. The text is by Ambassador Maja Shirtz - it is not. Mr Milan Petek is also on the list of applicants - he is not. Mr. Aloise Posedel, he's not here. Mr. Joseph Scholch, he's not here. Mr. Lucky Friend, he's not here. Mr. Joseph Horvath, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My conclusion is that the legal matter under consideration at this point is well prepared and I have to commend the minister with the team again, there has been a lot of work done here for this product, not only intellectual, but also physical, because there must have been a lot of discussions with different ministries. I can say that as far as the transfer of duties and powers is concerned, in fact, everything in this law is in writing. I am pleased, however, that the debate, as far as I have been able to monitor it so far, has been of good quality. There was almost nothing practical about politics and we also got some quality answers, some things I saw the Minister write to himself, and I am sure it is the will to make things better or to define things more precisely in another reading. Of course, I do not want to measure this law or evaluate it with micrograms or nanometers, or evaluate it with euro amounts starting on the sixth decimal. We remember a little about how it was when we introduced municipalities in Slovenia. Even then, for at least the first few months, we did not really know, even if we were in the congregation, what would happen to these congregations. And I'm sure even if there will ever be provinces, and I hope they will, because I'm defending them, we probably won't even know what to do with the provinces. I am of the opinion that the main problem with the legal regulation of the tasks and competences of the province is that these tasks and powers are not generally defined or determined by law only to a limited extent. This is also understandable because the provinces have not yet been established and therefore the laws cannot impose on them powers and powers. On the other hand, it is not possible to establish provinces without at least a certain extent regulating their duties and competences. In fact, the situation is similar to that mentioned above, which was created by the establishment of municipalities as local communities, which replaced the former municipalities as a sociopolitical community. The difference is that the situation at the time was more difficult, as it was practically necessary to transfer the state tasks of the former congregations to new administrative units and the original tasks of the congregations to new congregations. I think myself, judging that it was a good debate, that we have enough will, and as a real saying that where there is will, there is also the way to a final solution. I am convinced that for the success and development of Slovenia, it is crucial that the process of marginalising everything that is not the surroundings of the state centre does not continue. One of the options for solving this problem is certainly the provinces. I am firmly convinced of this, but not of any organisational concept of landscapes. If the province does not have strong powers and real economic power, it will only be an additional burden on the country, which will not in any way contribute to the further development of Slovenia, it will further reject it. The provinces will be able to accelerate economic development and thus reduce regional disparities only under the following conditions. Maybe I can call them six provincial orders. And these orders mainly, at least four out of six, relate to tasks. First time. The provinces should not be too small, as strong economic centres are needed for economic start-up, which are interesting for domestic and foreign investors. Another time. The regions need to be provided with sufficient and reliable financial resources. If the provinces are unable to finance larger development projects, a positive impact on economic development cannot be expected. Third time. The country must transfer to the provinces all those tasks from its jurisdiction that can be carried out more rationally and qualitatively by virtue of its closer connection to the territory and thus better knowledge of the problem. Fourth time. The municipalities must transfer to the provinces all those tasks under their jurisdiction that go beyond the narrow territory of each municipality, i.e. those tasks which concern the wider territory and which require good coordination between individual municipalities for successful implementation. The province can assume the role of an important mediator and coordinator in prioritising development projects. Fifth. The province must have a qualified administration that will be able to perform all the necessary tasks professionally, independently and qualitatively as the best solution. Both organisationally and professionally, there is a single administrative system that can be upgraded later, and a mechanism needs to be found to limit political influence. And six times. The establishment of the provinces must not mean a marked increase in public expenditure. The State must make a thorough cut and, together with its powers to the provinces, transfer also human resources and financial resources. All of this is actually written in this matter that we are dealing with today. These are therefore key conditions that must be met if we want the Slovenian provinces to accelerate economic development, the development of the whole country and thus reduce regional differences. If this does not happen, then it will be a very expensive experiment by the Slovenian local government, the consequences of which will be borne by many generations. I am sure that what is positive will come true and will be positive for Slovenia. I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Lady of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] Member of the delegation, Mr Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say, my patience is quite great. As soon as you had your own debate on behalf of the parliamentary group, you promised me that I would get the word for the replica, and somehow what you went through, and no harm done, there was probably no harm done. Now, as far as provincial law is concerned, it must be said that this is legislation, or a project, which all political groups in the National Assembly have in their programmes, in fact, other than the Slovenian National Party. All parties are aware of the importance of this project and all parties have written down that something needs to be done in this area. Indeed, the efforts made in the preparation of the province's legislation already in the past mandate also show that there was already an attempt to develop guidelines and concepts, and we were already working primarily on what these maps would look like. Several proposals were made, and because somehow not all of these proposals were acceptable, some Members, zealous advocates of the provinces in the previous term, also tabled their proposals for their special provinces. We understand them. However, more than this previous step at the time was somehow impossible to do, there was no real political will, and probably a coalition that was large enough or had a two-thirds majority, somehow she could not find a way to take any important or more difficult steps in this area. I must say that I was very pleased when at the beginning of this mandate we were able to prepare a constitutional basis, adopt a constitutional law and lay the groundwork for the provinces. There was a great deal of consensus, from all the parliamentary groups, except from the Slovenian National Party, we have contributed votes for constitutional change, and we have also turned on the green light for the package of legislation, which we are very intensively considering in the National Assembly, I think since September; in short, we have about half a year of this material ahead of us. It is necessary to say that both the Resor and the Government have taken a major step here to round up all these efforts in six laws and, in fact, it hurts me in particular in some of the debates that these efforts and laws have been presented to us for discussion. Those who could have done much in years ago, because they also had great voting potential, did not. Now that these efforts have been made, when all these imaginary things have been written, placed systematically in laws and chapters, there are so many points of reference to what this legislation is, how bad it is, how demeaning it is, whom we have not all asked to introduce into individual laws. The fact is that all those who are relevant interlocutors of the provincial legislation, especially local communities and also those institutions or institutions that wanted to do so, could be involved in the preparation of provincial legislation in a timely manner. The municipalities had many opportunities, many opportunities, both in the previous stages organised by the Government and at this stage when the initiative was taken over by the National Assembly. Both representative associations also supported the solutions, the mayors and also the municipal council. The municipal councils also decided to place individual municipalities in the planned provinces. There were extremely few congregations that had given negative consent to the placement in a particular province; this is said to have not been supported by this proposal. There was a tremendous number of those who agreed to the placement, as well as many who had somehow made comments on the jurisdiction of the election thefts and so on. In short, here to deny the very great effort of the Government, the government service and also the National Assembly, that it has not been put into this legislation, I do not think it is somehow correct. I must say that we are actually like a legislative body in some critical situation, in some role, in some position that we actually have to play. If we do not take an important step forward in this mandate in the area of the adoption of provincial legislation, then it is highly likely that the exact same story will be repeated in the next term. It's exactly the same story! None of the dilemmas will be different from those that are opening today, but we will surely lose for three years. Not one thing, not one thought, not one reason will be different than today when we have this package of legislation ahead of us. I think it is the task of this National Assembly, if it really knows, and we know that all of us who sit and decide in this National Assembly, then it is also rational for us to make certain decisions. One way or another. But it is necessary to decide the matter and also to take responsibility for the decisions. I am interested in what Slovenia would look like if, say, ten years ago, we introduced a provincial system. Would it be better in the area of road transport, as previously pointed out, in the area of municipal arrangements or other important infrastructure for the province's situation than it is now when we determine and regulate more or less from this National Assembly, or would the situation be worse? I am convinced that any of the provinces would create entirely different development priorities and decisions than we are capable of from this National Assembly. I'm sure Dolenjska wouldn't be as cut off as she is now. For objective reasons, it has no motorway connection and, for political reasons, no important other transport infrastructure. And this region where they are, I think, the two biggest Slovenian companies. Gorgeous and Revoz. Also in some other area. Even in Notranjska, Gorenjska would look quite different from when we are dealing here, which amendments we will adopt and which local or regional development priorities we would support. Makes sense. Where there are many Members, where there is a great density of population, there is also a voting mechanism. There are also several voters. In a province such as the Dolenska cove, I think, one MP. And it is no wonder that local environments are so rooting for the introduction of the landscape system. This is how they cheer for certain tasks to be delegated from the national level to the provinces. This is their perfectly legitimate request and also their opportunity. Everything else we do now and when we delay, we take their development initiatives. Definitely. I'd like to point out one more thing. One of the speakers said that there was no hot water found in this area when adopting this law or in dividing the content of this law. It cannot be because we only transfer those tasks that are existing, which the country has and which it can transfer to the provincial level. If we invented hot water, we'd carry something that's essentially in this system. It's impossible to invent hot water in this area. Even in the area of landscape formation, borders, and the placement of municipalities in the province, it is not possible to invent warm water. All we can say is, there's 8, 10, 12, 14, or something special that's in the sleeve. Impossible, Slovenia is so large, it has so many units and we can factor this into these systems into such logical systems. I would suggest that we save ourselves all these efforts, or that we also save the future coalition a lot of efforts in this area to address the story by finding that, in fact, in this area, the transfer of powers or the formation of landscapes, the other three laws that we have adopted before, including the electoral law, cannot be invented by warm water. And to find that these laws are suitable for further consideration in order to give these laws principled support. This would make a vital step. This would allow all those who say that this legislation is not perfect, it is not appropriate, it is flawed, it is any way to put amendments into texts and thus relax, allow us to even discuss what we actually know in this area, we can. With regard to the area of the formula for financing landscapes or financing municipalities, it is difficult to invent warm water. Since 1995, we have a municipal system and since 1995 the municipalities have no original income. This is also based on the same origins in this landscape financing formula. He doesn't have direct original income. I can hardly imagine that anyone here is among us who will be able to write it in this formula. I don't think it's a simple task to allow the landscapes some decent, sufficiently high original income. This is a difficult task for the coalition, a difficult task for the opposition as well. I propose that we take this necessary step tomorrow to give our consent, to give proper support to these laws that are now before us, and to enable us to continue exactly what I have said: to table amendments, to discuss these amendments and to harmonise ourselves and to agree that the last law that we will consider and vote on is the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. This binds the whole procedure to a sufficiently high level of coordination. All six laws are practically binding on 2/3 decisions. And given that today was an extremely large number of ideas, how and what needs to be done, I am sure that this step tomorrow would be easy to do and take time, let's say February or, if necessary, another month ahead, and with the amendments to this matter we will arrange, harmonize, adjust, supplement formulas, add resources - all those missing things that you fellow Members have warned about here. However, if we do not take this step tomorrow, then it means that we do not hope to take responsibility or that we do not have the money to take this step and that we also face these problems in order to regulate this legislation so that it is even better than it is now. I think it's a good time to say it, and it's also a good time to make that decision. I think that all the shifts from facing the level of amendments, because we know that, and after the awareness of all of us, the second is a key consideration in the National Assembly, where all these matters are regulated, I propose that we put on the table the map that we have, look at and make this necessary, as well as a crucial step for Slovenia. Are we ready for any other arrangements? Probably even in the coalition, in our client for sure. However, I propose that we accept the maximum that has been done in this area and that we allow Slovenia and Slovenia to do what is necessary. To transfer all tasks for which there is no need to carry out or manage them from the National Assembly or from government departments to locations to territories, to provincial systems, and that people there decide their priorities in their own way, as the congregations now do. And I appeal to everyone to agree and agree on this tomorrow until the vote. I don't think there's much separation between us and that this step will be too difficult for any political group in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Borut Syovic, he's gone. Parliamentary colleague Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. I would add with regard to what I said in my position earlier that the same law on the transfer of tasks as a technical law, as we have also called it, is a good solution from a technical point of view. Because in this marriage, everything that changes in the 52 regional laws is deleted. I firmly believe that, in the case of amendments to the sectoral laws, individual ministries have become fully involved. This law also explains all the articles, but of course there is no direct reference to why this task is passed on to the provinces. These questions have also been raised here. Perhaps certain questions were also justified and in certain areas where these issues were raised, it would probably be appropriate to consider such a speech on mine closure and perhaps something similar. However, certain matters are quite clear as regards the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Culture. Here we can only wonder whether there are enough powers transferred or too many. But at least I am of the opinion that this is to an optimal extent, but it is clear from this law what has been transferred or will be transferred to the provinces, and at the same time it is also shown in the second law on the basis of the funds transferred as well as the financial resources needed to ensure this. At least the same financial resources, which, for a given area, are carried out for certain tasks, if I may say so now, at individual Directorates now in ministries, are transferred to the provinces. This means that financial resources will also need to be provided at the same level in individual provinces. I explain to myself that I am not wrong that certain calculations will also be necessary within the countryside from a financial point of view, at least in the field of secondary education - I think this is also covered by this legislation. This will also be the case in other areas where a person with a permanent residence in one province will perform or will be offered a certain service under certain legislation in another province. I'm sure that's what the legislation provides. I know that's the way it is in high school. So I think that the law that has, I think, 407 articles is good and also pretty clear. We do have time, however, that at the stage of the second hearing indeed in those areas which have now been exposed to debate, where we have thought or some Members and Members have had doubts to reconsider whether they are being transferred to the provinces or remain at the state level. I must say that I also welcome a solution where certain powers have not been taken away from the congregations and transferred to the provinces. We'll see if we need it later. Maybe it will. Some activities would certainly be much more rational, perhaps if they were carried out within the province, not in the individual congregation. We already know that we have so-called joint municipal authorities, where we actually combine specific tasks together with a number of congregations. It's just one example of not listing anything else. I think marriage is good. Eventually, we can supplement it so that everyone can be satisfied.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I'm asking the minister, of course, if he wants to speak?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. Given that I appreciate that we are in the final stage of today's whole-day debate, I would first like to take this opportunity and I would like to thank all those from the esteemed assembly that you are here today, including all those who are not here at this moment, and who have participated in the debate today, for this debate. I believe that such a debate is necessary. Not only is it necessary, but it is also essential that we, as lawmakers, have been alerted to certain facts. Especially as far as this very complex law is concerned. We can also acknowledge that some things have already occurred in some of the previous debates that have taken place outside today's circle, and we will also propose and try to resolve them. However, given the legislative process, these and the other two laws are still open to amending them. We are open to all changes, and I think it was also reasonable to make this political effort and really find consensus on those points where we are each other, but I still estimate that we are close enough and we have brought this project to this point so that we can get to the establishment of the provinces. The landscapes, however I assess and believe that you all agree with this and practically there was almost no debater in today's debate who would not advocate the need for landscapes for a development function, and that is the basic purpose. So we actually agree at this point. And because we agree and because the National Assembly has already made those first efforts related to the change of the Constitution, it has in some way provided assurance to the entire Slovenian public that in this sense it will help to accelerate the development of Slovenia, that also those indicators that we have shown today, which are in fact a European standard of such criteria, that these indicators will be able to be different in the future, that together we will take responsibility for accelerating coherent regional development, polycentric development and thus the development of Slovenia in full. I appeal again, and I also ask the National Assembly, please all the actors who participate in this story, also on behalf of all Slovenes and Slovenians, to make this effort and to bring this legislation to the point that will allow the adoption of this legislation and then further and faster development and allow all those living in Slovenia comparable conditions for their work, no matter where the end of Slovenia lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Here you go, Mrs. Possoncheva.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Minister about which provinces he was referring to when he was talking about sub-regions. Second. Our region has 53% development. Second best, all in the order of 80 or up to 70 and something. How do you think we're going to reach that comparable standard of living ourselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u220	I think I already answered that today. As far as sub-regional organisations are concerned, these are not currently provided for in this legislation. The starting points are those based on these initial proposals of the law. However, in any case, I am sure that the landscapes are a mechanism that they can contribute, and this has made a significant contribution to the fact that this percentage of which you have talked about will be different and closer to this percentage, which speaks of the most developed regions. Without the establishment of the landscapes, despite all the efforts that have been made in this government, as well as in previous mandates, towards faster development, without this systemic step, it is obvious that what you are asking cannot be ensured. These peripheral environments are the most targeted by this provincial legislation. Without these steps, it is not possible to expect things to run faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u221	Thank you very much. At the conclusion of the proposal that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, i.e. Friday, 1 February, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which will be resumed by the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia tomorrow at nine o'clock. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Participation and the Members and Members of Parliament who have insisted to the end. Thank you, good luck.
