ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Please take your seats in the hall. Dear Members and honourable Members! Before starting the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, I first inform you that the life course of two former Members has recently ended, namely Mr Jožet Ašić, Member of the 1996-2000 and 2000-2004 terms of office, and Mr Ivan Pučnik, delegate of the Social Political Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the 1990-1992 term. I invite you to give a minute of silence to the memory of the former Member and our colleague. [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. The Ambassador, Mr Jožet Ašić and Mr Ivan Pučnik will be preserved in a good memory. I begin the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Bogdan Barovic, mag. Your Clavora, mag. Anton Rop and Mrs Melita Župevc. I have invited candidates and candidates for Members and Members who have the right to replace Members and Members who have taken office in the Government and the representative of the State Election Commission to the 1st item of the agenda, representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda and representatives of the Council of Justice to the 5th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd extraordinary meeting. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 11 December 2008. I have not received any proposals for withdrawing points and extending the agenda. I therefore propose that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the operation of their voting device, and the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. This is for the purposes of determining the candidates who will be in line with 14. Members of the law on business performed the function of delegates instead of delegates who took over the government's function. Since Mr Gregor Golobič, Mrs Katarini Kresal, Dr Franceto Križanič, Dr Matei Lahovnik, Dr Igor Lukšič, Mrs Maja Širca Ravnikar and Dr Patrick Vlačič, with the appointment of Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have terminated the mandate of Members and Members, the State-Electorial Commission has forwarded to the assembly a finding on which candidates and candidates have the right to replace Members and Members who have taken office in the Government. The findings were considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Since I have not received applications for a debate, no one wants to discuss it. We therefore move on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: until Members who have taken office in the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, are able to act as Members of Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, paragraph 2, of that Act as of today A. instead of Gregor Golobič Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, born 15 April 1960, residing in Domžalah, Poland Route 10b; B. instead of Katarina Kresal Anton Anderlič, born on 4 June 1956, residing in Ljubljana, Resljeva cesta 35; C. instead of Dr. Francet Križanič Andrej Magajna, born on 4 May 1952, living in Ljubljana, Mihov Stradon 13; No. in place of Dr. Matei Lahovnik Lojza Posedel, born 26 August 1955, living in Žalec, 11 Rista Savina Street; D. instead of Dr. Igor Lukšić Silva Černugelj, born on 29 December 1956, residing in Ljubljana, Učakar Brothers Street 22; E. instead of Majda Shirca Ravnikar Vito Rožej, born on 9 May 1974, living in Kranj, France Rozman Staneta 11; F. instead of Dr. Patrick Vlačič Miroslav Klun, born May 1, 1950, living in Sežana, Šmarje near Sežana 52. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 74 votes against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I invite fellow Members and colleagues to join us and take their seats. I wish my colleagues and colleagues to successfully carry out the work of MEPs and Members in the parliamentary benches and to congratulate them. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! We only mentioned a few seconds. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 2. Agenda item - To defend the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of cultural heritage - summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs Majda Shirca, Minister for Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Thank you. Nice greeting to everyone, and I'm new! On the 1st item of the agenda of the 1st session, which, of course, will mean that if you listen to this change or supplement the law on the protection of cultural heritage, the employees of museums will be able to receive salaries in the coming year. This moment is not a legal basis, so you literally have to vote. Remember, all of you, who attended the debate on the Cultural Heritage Protection Act this year, was adopted in spring 2008, remember the big open questions around new museums or the new status of museums and galleries, whose founder is the municipality and under the new law are called "authorized museums". The Act, which entered into force in March 2008, requires the State to authorize public service museums this year. These are museums, and in some cases also galleries, the founder of which is a municipality and paid by the state in a majority share. The Ministry of Culture of this procedure, which is mandated by law, has failed and has not carried out. Although it chose that state museum, in this case it gathered the National Museum, which gives the Ministry an opinion on the procedure for obtaining the status of authorized museums, which can then be entered into the register of authorised museums. However, authorized museums have not yet been selected and are not included in the register, which is why there is no legal basis for obtaining those funds, which are also provided under the law of the State. And if this law is not supplemented, this is to say, unless an additional year of the transitional period is provided, even in January or next year, until this entry is reached, the museums and galleries will have no wages. While I must say that the rules during this period when the law was adopted have been prepared since March to coordinate the proposals that some have also entered into force, as I say, this mandated museum has also been established, but there is no museum network at this time. Of course, it is clear that I appeal to the implementation of this transitional period, which allows municipal museums to be financed according to the old model. I must apologize if the addition of this law has taken place somewhat harshly. However, I must also say that at the beginning of December or at the end of November, when it came to handing over business, the old leadership did not point out this problem, which is not small, nor did we get any warnings or solutions that could literally solve it. This has led to a number of harshness that we have also faced on the parental committee itself. Either way, it's a big deal to solve. We are not overjoyed by the need to resolve it, but let us admit that when we adopted the law, we opened the matter up. We have raised the issue of the status of mandated museums, the issue of their conditions that they will have to provide, and also of the process of granting this mandate. Anyway, it's a fire operation, and I'm asking you to put out a cooperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Madam Minister! At its 2nd urgent meeting, on 12 December 2008, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer participated in the work of the committee, this is Culture Minister Majda Širc, and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee was provided with the following material: a proposal for a law published in the Rapporteur on 8 December, an amendment to the text of the draft law, which arrived on 9 December, and an opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was written on 11 December 2008. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and has made comments on Articles 1 and 2 from a legislative and technical point of view. These comments were partially taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups and subsequently supplemented by the amendment tabled by the Committee. As stated, the amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups: Really, SD, DeSUS and LDS. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also completed his position, although we had a written opinion. In this respect, it points out that Article 193a(2) is in direct and direct contradiction with Article 139. That's something he's given special attention to. However, since the amendment of Article 139 in the amendment was not proposed by the proposers, the article was closed and could not be affected by the amendments. He explained, however, that the substance of the proposed novel is to immediately extend the transitional period during which the financing of museums and galleries can be made possible for one year. The representative briefly presented a key amendment to the law and stressed that a transitional period should be extended in the proposed amendment and the amendment of the law until the beginning of the next financial year, when a new method of financing municipal museums and galleries with the status of museums will be fully implemented, on the basis of the granting of powers to carry out the public service. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the provisions of Article 1 as well as to the amendments tabled below and to the articles tabled below. The debate focused on the issue of the date by which the first award must be carried out, as well as on the things that went beyond the novelty tabled and were in fact based on the substance of the solutions to the law adopted this year. Some members of the Committee felt it was pointless for the Ministry to grant the public service on the basis of a call for tender after receiving applications from museums meeting the requirements for obtaining public service authority. But this is exactly what was adopted with the law and which could not be changed with this novel. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendment of the four coalition parties, the parliamentary groups, and then the two amendments of the committee, which were both editorial in nature. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you. In our parliamentary group, we expected more complex changes to this law, but not just one small change that actually discusses how the financing of museums and galleries will move from country to province from 1 January 2010 to municipalities. The countryside probably won't be here yet. That says there's already one big question here. The municipalities won't have any money. Here's another big question. What are we gonna do then? It is said that at the time we will adopt a new law, when we will cancel everything and return to the original state. I don't know how that makes sense. I think it would be better to look for solutions and, above all, longer-term solutions. In the SDS, SLS and SNS parliamentary groups, we have drafted one amendment, which regulates this Article 1 better, more exact and more definitively. I spoke earlier about Article 2 of this Act. Here too, the government has proposed a rather vague text, which says: "The Ministry between museums that meet the requirements for obtaining the power to manage the public service chooses the best, most appropriate, on the basis of a public invitation to tender." I think it's incomprehensible. In this case, options can be found to re-finance those museums and those museums that will be used to weather the Ministry. That is why our amendment is much more exact and much more precise and it makes sense to support it. But I'm saying it again. The fact is that we will certainly have no provinces in 2010 and that the municipalities will be even poorer. Maybe it's the Ministry's attempt to throw costs off its shoulders that it can't bear. It would make sense, however, that at the Ministry, about half the employees who are unable to work there would not want to work or mix air and spend government money. It happened that every new minister brought in a new team and left the old team in jobs. And the employees were, I'd say, what they were producing, they were getting more and more, they were getting less and less and less money was running out. Therefore, I think that, despite understanding that the Ministry must do something and that it is partly necessary to support this amendment of the law, it would make sense for the Ministry to consider, in spite of everything, and perhaps after introducing a more complex amendment of the law, because the amendment of this law is necessary in many areas, because the law in certain segments is extremely weak to take these considerations into account and correct them. This solution is only temporary and cannot possibly be permanent. In fact, it is sand in the eyes by 2010, by 1 January, and then it will be what it will be. And I think this government has committed itself to a complex solution to problems, not just to solving them, ad hoc, and for a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u8	Hello! Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, welcome! The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is as follows: The Cultural Heritage Protection Act, which entered into force on 1 March 2008, lays down new requirements and standards to be met by municipal museums and galleries if they wish to continue to be co-financed by the State budget. At the time of the adoption of this law, the municipalities warned that the right of local communities to exercise public interest in the field of culture would be compromised. The legal solutions adopted should be totally unacceptable in terms of the implementation of municipal budgets. Let us recall that it is not a reasonable time for municipalities, museum founders and galleries to establish a new funding system. The problem was also due to the fact that the preparation of the regulation took place in an understandable way beyond the expected legal provisions. For this reason, the Slovenian People's Party's Group agrees with the extension of the current funding method until 1.1.2010. Until then, a public tender for the granting of powers and signed contracts between the authorised museums, their founders and the Ministry of Culture should be concluded. However, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I must draw attention to a new fact which arose from the adoption of the amendment at the meeting of the Home Committee. The proposal that we now have before us foresees that the competent ministry has the right to choose between museums and galleries that meet certain legal conditions under which they can become authorized museums who will actually grant them this mandate. The mandate is to be granted to the so-called most suitable. What are the most suitable museums and galleries, and why? There are no objective criteria. However, it is probably clear to all of us that this entails greater co-financing of these museums by local communities. Although the basic law mentions the provinces, since they are not, funding will fall to individual congregations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that such a right to freely judge the Ministry does not bring any good, but only a considerable room for manoeuvre to give power to beautiful eyes. We are therefore also co-proposals of the amendment, which corrects such proposals so that only objective criteria will be laid down in the law on the protection of cultural heritage, which states that the museum can obtain the power to carry out the public service if it meets the requirements. Some of these requirements are that it is included in the museum's description, that it has permanent financial resources to operate, that it is capable of identifying, documenting, evaluating, etc., to ensure accessibility to the heritage it keeps, to provide a tour of museum collections with a certain opening time, to meet other minimum professional and technical requirements, spatial requirements and standards for the protection and storage of museum materials. As I have already mentioned, we will support the draft law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and expect our amendment to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a new law on the protection of cultural heritage for a very simple reason. Our task is to extend the transitional period and thus enable the continued smooth functioning of museums whose founders are municipalities, otherwise, if we did not confirm this law today, we would face very serious difficulties in financing their activities. It is therefore a proposed amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which will extend the transitional period until the beginning of the next financial year, that is to say up to 1. 1. 2010 when a new method of financing municipal museums will be fully implemented through the granting of public service powers. This means that in 2009 it will be possible to complete the procedures for the award of public service powers to museums and their financing will be coordinated accordingly. Here it is also worth commenting that in the Committee's debate, we have devoted ourselves to an amendment supported by four coalition groups of Members, and it is clear that there is no restriction and authorization on the part of the Ministry, which has not already been given by the law currently in force. The amendment intended to align the text of the proposed amendment with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The discretionary right introduced or written by the text of the amendment was able to be traced back from the text of the current law, which the applicant does not change. This should be made clear that we do not change the context of the law and the content of the law at any other point in the substance, but only in the segment where we want to extend the transitional period for 2009, because certain tasks under the law were not carried out under the previous government in 2008. Here is the basis and essence of the proposed novel, and of course it would be very irresponsible by the Government, the Ministry of Culture, if such changes were not proposed to the National Assembly. That is why, of course, we will support the proposed amendment of the law at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andreja Richter on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me not to repeat myself so much with my predecessors and may I remind you that cultural heritage is that constitutional part of the national and national identity that is enshrined and protected in Article 5 of our Constitution and also obliges the State to care for the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage. Even under Article 73 of the Constitution, local communities as a country are also expected to be jointly indebted and caring to good masters for such an inheritance. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage was passed only in February of this year, even in the same year, and we are here today, and it needs to be completed. The first debate on this law took place in October of last year. At that time, our colleague Sam Bevk also pointed out the changes that were made to this same law in 1999, when the attempt to resolve the museums in question led to the amendment of the Law on Community Financing and the Law on Community Financing transferred funding from the country to the local community. Of course, the Budget Implementation Act 2000 did not provide for all of this. The constitutional conflict and movable heritage arose, and the financing of these remained on the shoulders of the country. It happened in the meantime that the activity is entirely, not only about wages, but about the protection of the movable cultural heritage, it has been lost within a few months to its legal position and, of course, because of this, without the resources intended for this activity. Also in last year's first reading, the then Member of Parliament, today Minister of Culture Majda Širc, very quickly and urgently, today has brought to the National Assembly a novelty of this law, which prolongs the transitional period of funding for museums whose founders are local communities. So that we do not repeat the same school that we did, and today we are doing a correctional exam or we have already failed the correctional exam. Why am I exposing the founders? Because local communities are the founders of all these museums we are talking about, and they are the ones who are called after all the directors, but they are not paying for the content. The activities carried out in these museums, however, constitute a wider area of major local communities and it is therefore entirely inappropriate for the founder, who is usually the owner of the property, to pay for all the activities carried out by the same services in the wider area. Of course, the adoption of a law on the protection of cultural heritage meant that, in the meantime, there would also be provinces, the only normal title for financing such an activity. As a result, this year, even in January, without knowing it, the Committee on Culture has also listened to the knowledge of the professions that have warned of shortcomings, respect for them, adopted a law which speaks again about the transfer of financing of museums to local communities, which carry out a wider activity and thus burden the country. On Friday, we also wide open some substantive matters of the law and found that it is likely that this time, which is now ahead of us, the Ministry of Culture has devoted to substantive additions and, above all, has listened to a profession that has already wanted to monitor and influence certain content at the time of its adoption, and unfortunately has not been sufficiently heard. Nor in last October, when the debate on this kind of law was wide open. Perhaps I should mention a little from the "grey" that many times we talk about these museums, which are undeniable and sometimes also sound in the halls of this dedicated building: "There would be no harm at the end if the door were closed." But let me mention that this kind of museums in Slovenia visit a million and 200,000 people annually, and that it is also tourists and especially young people who would notice closed doors, as as we extend the funding period, we also extend the activity and not just pay. We therefore support the proposal of the amended law and believe that this year, ahead of us, it will not only be the status of the mandated museum, but also the substantive additions to the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian National Party's Group are proposing an amendment to the amended draft law, which is adopted here in short procedure. We do not want to make this reception difficult because we know that wages are at stake, and we know that there must be a legal basis for museums to function normally. Nevertheless, it has been shown that the Committee on Culture is not only about amending the law that would prolong this adoption or enforcement of the law, but also about interfering with the substantive changes, which cannot be the reason for the short-term procedure before the National Assembly. What's this all about? It is the fact that museums that acquire the status of an authorized museum are said to be making progress and thus opening up the possibility of being financed by the state, at the same time being not automatically classified as authorised museums, but the Ministry of Culture is also deciding on this. We think that this is not good and we are putting in an amendment where those museums that are sufficient to meet the criteria will also become mandated museums at the same time. Why is that? It simply seems to us that a whole series of museums has ambitions to become better. We can also understand these ambitions by automatically acquiring these funds if they work hard and satisfy the criteria. However, it is not that they are later decided by someone else, which means, of course, lobbying, a different way of working, less ambition and so on and so forth. It is therefore appropriate for all of us to understand that museums that have so advanced and are so high-quality will at the same time go to a certain extent to the country, because it will happen that the municipalities will only be able to partially co-finance or finance these museums if they do not come to this, and that some municipalities will not be interested in having museums at all. That is why we propose this amendment, and we think it is in no way in any way interfering with the adoption of the reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Zares Group supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage for a simple reason, because, as the Minister has said, it is to put out the fire. However, the fire was caused by a discrepancy between the applicable law and the timing provided for by both the budget and the establishment or uncontested non-establishment of the provinces and the possibilities that municipalities have for financing or for paying the salaries of employees in cultural institutions, museums and galleries. It is only an intervention, it is only a law that prolongs the existing funding system and does not interfere with the content of the law itself. We believe that some of the concerns about this content are still legitimate and that there will be a need for serious debate during this term on the real novelty of the law or on the new law or on the amendments to this law in the direction of these concerns. In this case, it seems a little strange to us that the opposition is proposing an amendment that amends the law that was created during the previous term and forgets the fact that Article 95 was the same in the previous law. When we amended it, we took into account the concerns and suggestions of the Legislative and Legal Service so that there would be no new disagreements. If we interfere with the content of the law and change it, I also personally believe that these concerns are very well-founded and that there will be a need to consider how to finance or recognise the status of mandated museums of all those institutions that fulfil the conditions. However, in this particular case, if we amend article 95 as the opposition wishes, we may find ourselves in a chain of disagreements within the law itself. I think Mrs Potrata has said well that the system is closed and that with this intervention and with this amendment, they would essentially trigger a chain reaction, because we should amend a number of articles. In this case, the basic purpose of this law, which is of a fire nature, would be burdened by a substantial longer discussion and therefore would not have achieved the desired result. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group is in favour of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the form proposed by the Government and we have in fact confirmed it on the Home Committee. So our vote will, of course, go for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The new law on the protection of cultural heritage is fully supported by the DeSUS Group. The basic law entered into force this March and it is actually strange that it is already experiencing this amendment in the same year. However, the substance of the amendment is the extension of the deadline, the period for funding municipal museums until 2010, when a new method of financing municipal museums and galleries with the status of museums with the power to carry out public service can be fully implemented. This will allow for the completion of the procedures for the granting of powers to museums for the performance of public service in 2009. The tender for the award of powers and signed contracts between the authorised museums, their founders and the Ministry of Culture will therefore be concluded. In fact, the reason for the amendment is only one, namely the disproportionately long preparation of the rules for obtaining the status of authorised museums. Although the former Minister of Culture has recently issued a Regulation on the Protection and Conservation of National Riches and Museum Materials, on the Registration of Museums and on the Authorisation of State Service and Museums, it does not allow for the late adoption of this sub-law to complete the procedures envisaged this year. It is therefore an emergency exit that has arisen due to a misestimation of the time needed for the adoption of the necessary sub-legislative acts to carry out these procedures. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the amendment is a result of stiffness, as stated by the Minister herself, workers and services of the Ministry of Culture, because they have not taken a timely approach to the adoption of the necessary sub-legislative acts or have misjudged that coordination between municipal museums, their founders and international museum standards will require a longer period of time for the adoption of this regulation. In our opinion, the Minister of Culture has made the right and only logical move to propose the amendment of the law and thus solve this problem, which would otherwise have arisen. The DeSUS Group is convinced that the proposal for a novel is necessary and thus allows the completion of the procedures for the granting of the powers of museums to perform the public service. Therefore, the DeSUS Members will certainly support this change. The Group also considers that the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian National Party are not ripe for support because we accept the amendment mainly in terms of extending the deadlines but not in terms of other substantive changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As we can see, an amendment to the Act was tabled: SDS, SLS and SNS, and we are moving on to Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, SLS and SNS. I'm asking you to sign up. If you don't mind, I'll just open the application. Perhaps you would like to give the floor first to Mr Petan, who is likely to justify this amendment. Report. Mr. Petan has a word, as I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, Your Honor! I will, of course, support this amendment, because I believe that the text proposed greatly improves the text drafted by the coalition, and this text would avoid the will of the ministry or the minister, i.e. the arbitrariness of politics. As far as the basic purpose of this law is concerned, it is to extend the validity so that museum employees can continue to receive wages and the whole problem created by this, of course, there is no dilemma here. That's clear, and I support that. But look at the fragment! The government was holding back the idea of somehow deciding beyond the criteria, and it was rather embarrassing which museums met the criteria for obtaining this status, as set out in Article 95. According to the old law, all museums that meet the criteria that are prescribed are granted the status of an authorized museum. This is very complicated, but it actually means those museums that the state would finance or at least co-finance with state funds. But the new coalition has further reduced funds of €11 million to finance museums. What does that mean? This means a reduction, certainly means a reduction in the number of museums that will receive this status of authorised museum and help the state to co-finance. Therefore, the coalition, SD, LDS, Really and DeSUS also suggested that among those museums that met the criteria in force so far, they should choose the most appropriate ones. This is said among all who meet the criteria, the minister, minister or someone at the Ministry will choose those who are most suitable. But what are the criteria? But we don't see Criters anywhere. This is said to be likely to apply arbitrarily, I don't know, our criteria, yours, or politically ours, politically untreatable or perhaps even worse, regionally, regional criteria. I'm sure the ones in Styria and Prekmurje will probably fall off in the lower Podravje. That's worrying. If there is no correct criterion, one who meets all the criteria will choose those who are even better or best suited. I'm not going to argue that this was the primary purpose. But that's how it always turns out. If you don't have clear criteria, then someone will choose the most appropriate criteria for this criterion and yours. Either it's political or it's regional, whatever. Of course, that is why we do not support such a text in the SDS party, and we personally do not support it because it would mean additional burden on the municipalities where these museums are and which will not be classified as the most appropriate, even though they satisfy all the conditions that are prescribed. I therefore believe that the text proposed by the coalition is a step backwards. It means additional burden on municipal budgets, it only weakens culture in these areas, especially in the areas of underdeveloped areas. We can be united about this. It's gonna work out that way, even if it doesn't. But that arbitrary decision-making of the best of those who meet the criteria is ultimately the same. We believe that the content proposed in the amendment is significantly better and somehow cancels or prevents some bureaucrat's will and challenges the criteria that are prescribed. If the criteria are prescribed and you're satisfied, then you have to get the status. But if there's anyone else who wants to choose the most suitable, that's questionable. That is why we have proposed such a text that is avoided, which prevents the will of anyone, regardless of the political option in power. At the moment it is who it is, and therefore I support this amendment, which we have proposed, which improves this text and prevents any will or decision-making beyond the criteria on the basis of ours and yours. So I support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u22	In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have also assessed that Article 2 of the Law is needed in particular and that is why we support it. And we must all be well aware that the basic reason for this change, the non-admission of provincial legislation, is that the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage uses very strictly the terminology that the country, the landscapes and the municipalities are those who are achieving public benefit. We all know that the attempt to establish the landscapes in last year or this year has failed, and that we have a gap in this area in particular. That is why we think and have tabled this amendment together so that we do not deal too much with how the powers to grant or choose are actually obtained by all those who meet the conditions, so let us resolve this fire that has been mentioned today and without delay finance these necessary institutions that carry out this necessary mission. In particular, it is necessary to focus on the amendment of this law in its entirety, to see in the country that we have no provinces and that there is a need for conceptual change of this law and to define in the Republic of Slovenia how we will carry out this public interest in the long term. To illustrate such problems, let me say what has already been said today that in the year 2000 we financed these institutions. And here we have very different cases in Slovenia. In the area where I come from Posavska, we have two such museums, the Krabrajina Museum in Brežice and also the Bozidar Jakac gallery in Kostajevaka in Krka. A very important institution, which runs museum activities in the field of art activities south of the Charles Bridge, we know the rich collections of Toneto France Kralje, Goršet, Gorjupa, Didek, Pledana Borčič, Forma Vivo. And this gallery is located in the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, which today has 2,500 souls. When we look at the annual budgets of Kostanjevice and the galleries, we see that the municipal budget is only in the ratio of 2:1. And I can't imagine how this gallery, which has been created in the past in such a way that the local environment has built a wider building, has restored the complex, at the same time it has approached the purchases of these collections over the decades, many of these collections have been donated, and that is why there is also a controversy about the transfer of the institution to the state level. And this is a typical example from which I think we can see that a comprehensive amendment to this law will be necessary. Therefore, we propose to adopt this amendment, in which we want to technically resolve the fact that all those who carry out this activity and this public benefit will receive this funding in the following year, otherwise it is conceptually necessary to amend the necessary law in the following year and earlier, adopt it over the year, so that we do not put the fire out again in the middle of winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Maja Shirca Ravnikar spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u24	In examining the amendment tabled, it is right to state my position. At the same time, let me also say that I agree with previous interlocutors who have pointed out the need for conceptual changes to this law, which would not only put out fires and open wounds that are being pointed out by the museum professional service and others. With regard to the amendment tabled today by SDS, SLS and SNS, let me point out that it undermines the logic of Minister Simoniti and destroys all the philosophy on which this law was built. In fact, it operates with similar concerns and doubts that we have operated on, personally, on this question of how these networks will happen at the municipal level in the future, or whether the system that brings the law to go to the mandated museums that establish the municipal level, museums and galleries, higher than those that are at the state level, are either saved or not. She's not exactly saved. But Mr Jelinčič, who initially mentioned that he was sorry that there were no substantive solutions on the table, could not prepare these solutions within one month and also listen to all the warnings that have been given to this law, which is trying to move into life in such an unfortunate way. Why do problems arise with this amendment, which, I say, undermines philosophy, the logic of gaining this network? As it is not consistent with all the articles referring to the method of invitation to tender, the request for authorisation procedures is said to be 95., 96., 97. and other articles referring to the call for tender as a condition. Now, if we find out what the lawmaker meant - if I think what he meant, then he didn't say when we asked him here when he was talking about getting this new network of authorized museums in local, municipal communities. Personally, I think he wanted to remake a certain state of emergency into another network. He noted that in Slovenia there are currently 32 museums or galleries whose founders are municipalities, but they are paid to a certain extent by the State, and that on the other hand we have 8 so-called national museums, which are wholly owned or supported by the State. I suppose because we didn't get the answer at the time that the financial impact review was exactly what it was: if the law said that the new network you're now afraid of, how it would be established, which is supposed to anticipate this call or direct it, contains EUR 14.6 million and is the same amount here, then this network will be somehow copied. It is also true that it is not necessary, for the criteria we once asked about were not clearly defined. The Regulation, which has occurred in the meantime, has somehow defined these criteria, which means that this includes a certain possibility of competence. Of course, in the whole process that, let's say, if this amendment of yours were to be adopted, which says that all those who apply or who are involved in this network should be included in this network, that the authorised service that has now emerged within the National Museum is essentially unnecessary, because there is nothing to advise the minister, what to do and what is right to do. I agree that it is right to raise a very important question with this amendment when you raise a key philosophy about the establishment of this network. It is right and I expect that in the future, when it is necessary to face a more rational or more appropriate way, it will really hurt because it is so often changing, but once it needs to be thought through, I want it to also in the light of the coming definitions of the landscapes, but I would not want it to break this system that is here because I would have made it unconstitutional again because I would have disputed the necessary procedure of the invitation to tender. That's right. We have said ourselves once whether there will be an arbitrary decision here when this call is put in place. Arbitral decision-making can happen, criteria are not clear enough. The State Secretary, who was an important advocate of this law, Mrs Pirkovič, argued that these criteria would be clear and that regulations or regulations also establish themselves well enough. Let's just say that's what we should trust. But if we put this system in place, which challenges this logic, as suggested by the three parties, then another part of the law in the other articles that follow them will be broken. In this sense, I appeal that it is better not to support these solutions or that it is beneficial that you do not support them and that you let this law live in the way that the former government has brought it, and that it is now correcting them to survive as long as they can survive. Let me also warn the representatives of the Slovenian National Party who, in their presentation address, warned that they were not satisfied because there were not enough complex changes. It is right that, it is not possible to happen in 14 days or so quickly, time needs to be earned, but in knowledge alone; a fundamental misunderstanding - it is not about transferring funding to the congregations by this law, not so superficially, but I do not want anyone to have the wrong information from those accompanying this discussion. It is simply that in some way funding, which was considered old, and also this law, if we call it "the law of Dr Simonitir", does not tolerate this funding to municipalities, but the state retains up to 80% of the funding of museums or galleries whose founders are municipalities, and the important or majority financier is the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Minister. Dear Members and Members. This amendment, which we tabled in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the People's Party and in the National Party, is essentially an amendment that helps our municipalities. This is not an amendment that could be judged to be populist or otherwise. It's about helping our community with museums. The content of museums, it is not just a matter of local communities, it is essentially a matter of the whole country and it is also right that the systematic state helps museums. Not just a museum. We have a number of cultural institutions in the municipalities: theatres, galleries, museums, libraries that are burdened with municipalities. And these institutions are exhausting the municipalities, all the mayors, the mayors, you probably know that very well, and I hope that all of you will also support this amendment that has been tabled. For this amendment is truly a help to our congregations. In the previous mandate, we have adopted a number of legislative solutions with the hope that there will be enough political consensus to reach the regions. Because regions would take on the burdens of all these institutions, the burden of which is now borne by individual congregations. These are mainly urban and larger institutions that bear the burden of all these institutions, which are in the best interests of the entire provinces, and are only one of the municipalities' burdens. That is how I think it would be right for the real, particularly in the coalition to consider supporting this amendment. In this way, indeed, all municipalities that have such museums that meet these requirements, as this must be a key criterion, must also be granted assistance by the State. For the solution will then be for all those who have already completed the first sieve to be able, in one way or another, to make it possible for either the minister or the ministry to decide who will receive this aid or not - this is a bad solution. That is why I believe that this amendment will receive support and that this change of law will bring what is for the benefit of our congregations. That is why, of course, I will also support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. The Group of Social Democrats does not support the proposed amendment with a clear argument, as I mentioned at the outset, and with the arguments just made by the Minister of Culture. In fact, it opens up other content that eventually destroys a complex law that was adopted at the beginning of this year, as I have already said. To the local communities in this case, which we are finally saving here, there is absolutely nothing to be afraid of. I'm talking to my dad because you just said that these kind of institutions are running out of municipal budgets. At the outset, however, I mentioned that Article 75 of our Constitution speaks of the fact that the local community and the state, in cooperation, are responsible for the protection of the movable cultural heritage and that this cooperation would result in an agreement, but we need this year to agree on: how, in what way, why and how much it costs us - the capital injections which we will not last be in this institution, which we call museums, we will also invest. For the next month, we will have the opportunity to speak again about this law, since you are probably many of you among the signatories to the constitutional dispute that was triggered in October on this same law, which speaks, of course, of course, of the disability of transferring funding from the State to the local community without agreement, and in particular of the criteria that should be submitted for such an activity. For this reason, it is imperative that we get to the register of heritage first, which will introduce all those museums that already cover the mobile cultural heritage throughout Slovenia today, as they are still working under the Museum Network Regulation and all, including those that will meet the conditions following the call made by the Ministry. Of course, already after this call and the criteria adopted in the last month, in November, submitted by the Regulation or by the Ministry of Culture, it is likely that the issue of debate was also among the professions that were not present at that time. And in all this complicated process, it is likely that this year will be necessary to open up, as some Members have mentioned today, and as Members of the Committee have discussed, other content within the law, which is very complicated. They start from the very beginning, in the first five articles, when we only talk about identifying an inheritance as to what it would be, and, of course, taking into account, last but not least, other directives adopted during this time in the European Union or in UNESCO. It is therefore very irresponsible to open up other articles and thus to place the financing of local communities, the museums in question, where, by amending this law, which we now have before us, we are transferring only one year's funding to the shoulders of the country. Let me just mention that many museums that already carry in their own name the "Probional" let this also give you the idea that it means, after all, "Probational" in the title of the province for which certain content, public service and so on are being carried out. And that, in the previous mandate, the applicant has sought to raise the security situation and thus expand the institutions, but that will not be different, as always, in cooperation with the local community. We have very good cases in the field where the local community and the state co-finance such activities. This should be followed, not after considering the exhaustion of local communities, which are forced to invest in the museums concerned. Of course, I'm talking about these 32 museums, which you only make decisions about management and all the other things in local communities. It is already a matter of great duality of content and work, and therefore I believe that this year before us will come - the current proposer, the Ministry of Culture, in agreement and agreement with the expert - to supplement this law. In 1999, for the first time, we passed the correctional exam, in 2000, the second constitutional dispute, now we have the third amendment of the law and the transfer of our movable heritage. Let me remind you that a movable heritage is all that is our identity or history. With one stroke, with one natural disaster, we can destroy everything. If we have anything to do with this, we will probably strive to arrive at a proposal for a law in the coming year that will talk about who is responsible and who is not, after all, responsible. This is by no means always an exhausting country or a local community, but it is always a certain percentage of cooperation. And in the profession we would like these houses to be more and more, because these are the places where generations meet where many people meet, and this would only be an open door for some new content, activity, not least for the economy or also for the acquisition of some other content or emphasis in the very environment in which this museum or gallery houses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic again. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u30	I was wrong. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u31	I'll give you my word. Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I must say that our amendment does not change the old law in any way, but it is the Ministry's proposal. In fact, the Law-Legal Service has found that in the dictates of the law as it is, it means that those museums that reach the criteria can all be chosen at the same time among the mandated museums. This seems fitting to us, for it is in this way that we are burdening not only the congregation but also the ministry of sad decision-making, which will be chosen as more excellent among the excellent museums with equal opportunities. That's the first thing. And the other thing is, I think it's a little bit of a delusion that it's going to make any difference. That's not true. Three figures appear in the financing of museums. First of all, it is estimated that 14 million will be needed for the implementation of the public service in 2009 on the basis of a proposal for a law, and that is, the Minister explained on the Committee that the correction to indicate the finances originally intended for 24 million, while at the same time setting this third number in the budget devoted to cultural heritage, 36 million. In all this debate, it seems that's what this is all about. Not only is it to postpone the implementation of the law for one year and to give the legal possibility that people in cultural institutions will be paid, but it is precisely that the Ministry will decide again between its competences, which museum will be better than the other, despite having all the same criteria as they have acquired. In this sense, I think it is our simplification amendment, which in no way prejudges the acceptance of the wages of all and the vote on this law by the swift procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u34	I just want to respond briefly to what has been mentioned by Mrs Richter and shows what has been going on in this country for the past decade, as I have been following this situation very well. We're not talking about being forgiven by the term "curious municipalities" that don't know what culture is and don't support it. If there were no such municipalities and local communities supporting these 32 institutions so far, there would be no such institutions. And it is right that the vocabulary is used, the municipalities and we are congregations that have been very supportive of such matters, and even in the years when the adventure of then Minister Školč in this area was similar to that of the next year, some municipalities have paid, some have given credit, but the municipalities have made sure that these institutions have been maintained. But it is right that, as we said before, we look at what is here in the public interest in Slovenia and share these burdens fairly. Once again, in the Kostanjevice case: in 2000, the great municipality of Krško passed over that it paid these costs in six months, and we did not initiate any constitutional dispute because we were aware and we want such an institution to remain. On the map of Slovenian municipalities, however, the truth is that in love most of these institutions are in large municipalities, cities and larger congregations. But there are institutions, such as the Bozidar Jakac Gallery, which is in the congregation of 2,500 people and we know the mission. Therefore, I think that there is no need for some harsh words and for such an exhibition before this law, that we maintain the cultural level of all together and that in the interests of Slovenian culture, we will arrange this systematically so that we will not face a similar case in one year. As it is written in this last year, I fear that there will be a similar debate in one year if it is no longer done in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, I've been glad to hear earlier discussions from your esteemed colleague Richter. She has said nice words, but the content of these words has just confirmed the legitimacy of our amendment, because our amendment does not break any concept of any law, but at least prevents philosophy from continuing to burden the congregations and remove the resources provided by the state and in doing so, establishing mandated museums beyond the criteria. The process itself is very sophisticated, red is awkward, but it is sophisticated: first the call to determine which museums can get this status of authorized museum - the criteria are prescribed - then all those museums are selected - or determined, not chosen, determined which ones satisfy the conditions. Now someone at the Ministry will choose the best, most appropriate. And here are the criteria, questionable, and so on. Our fear is, of course, so much more justified that this selection of the most suitable on the basis of "our" and "yours", because right now the only criterion is very popular, the current criterion of "non-trust" - "does not enjoy the confidence of the minister". Yeah, what kind of criteria is that? What kind of trust? Is it professional trust or some other trust? 'Don't enjoy trust;' it doesn't matter what someone has done, what someone has achieved, what results he has received - 'don't enjoy trust'. This is a very strong criterion and the only criterion used in these times for substitutions, for substitution attempts, for the announcement of substitutions and so on. Therefore, this fear is entirely justified that certain museums will simply fall out and the municipalities will have to fund these institutions themselves because they will not enjoy the confidence of the minister or assistant minister or any bureaucrat - in a positive sense, I mean, an employee at the Ministry - who will have to decide on it. You want it or you don't want it, he'll have to decide. He'll have to choose some criteria. At the moment, this is the only criterion that this coalition uses. "He doesn't enjoy trust." That's not the criteria for me! Nothing mentions what he's achieved, what the results are, what he's doing, how he's doing, but "he doesn't enjoy trust." This is the only saving criterion and that is why we have also proposed such an amendment, which would somehow nullify, bypass and prevent such arbitration. Last but not least, if this does not mean community poverty, rural poverty, then let us ask ourselves, why did this need to be reduced by €11.6 million? If we're cutting funds, there's bound to be someone short of it. But it's local communities. So where are these 11 million euros going to go? Are you collecting compensation for the erased or something? Probably not. At least I hope not. This will make the congregations more burdensome, so we have proposed this amendment, because we believe that it significantly improves this text created by the amendment proposed by the coalition itself and has made the text worse and made such a choice possible. We don't think that's good. I also think so and therefore support this amendment, which has been tabled and which I am also discussing today, and I hope that it will be confirmed and that there will be no such possible anomalies, irregularities, decisions beyond the criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I quoted the report as saying that we have received a correction in the text on 9 December and it clearly states in the fourth line that there has been a mistake - what does the word error mean, I hope that we all still understand and that the original amount recorded there is EUR 24 000 400, which should be corrected at that point because this is the wrong amount and should be taken into account at this point the amount of EUR 14 000 600. I'm talking about thousands of euros, of course. And if we were to be very precise now, it's the difference of 13,800, not as much as the speech was given. But these are the details that are the accounting types. So it's a mistake. Such funds are foreseen in the budget and it is not about what is supposed to be hidden behind this error; that is, the planned poverty of local communities. This is the money allocated from the State budget for funds, for material resources, for maintenance and for the salaries of those institutions whose founder is the local community and which pays up to 80% of the state's funds. Now, to the extent that it is possible to talk about ugly and beautiful words in the National Assembly, then I would like to say that it is not possible to qualify in this way if, as a resident of a municipality, I find that, at the time of the phenomenon called the exclusion of small municipalities from the municipal municipality, it is also apparent that the municipality, with its population reduced, remains concerned about the maintenance of cultural institutions, that not all are later prepared to participate in the cost of maintaining these cultural institutions. Whether it's a bad word or not, it's not a bad word, it's a bad word, it's a bad idea, it's a fact. Now for the amendment which has been tabled under this Article 1. It was announced as an amendment that clears the proposed text, which introduces greater clarity, and I don't know, a few more such adjustments have been received by this amendment, but when I read the amendment, it becomes less clear to me. In fact, the amendment says: The Ministry between the museums that apply for the invitation to tender - here for the first time a public invitation to tender - to obtain the power to perform the public service on the basis of the invitation to tender selects those who comply with the requirements of the previous Article of this Act. This can be read as if there were two invitations. If there is only one invitation to tender, I do not understand now which one is in charge; but, in general, the text is not clearer, it does not remove the deficiency, as it is said, of the first article of the law introduced, which, by the way, was the result in March 1st of the law adopted in the previous term, on which we in the working body, and later in the State Assembly, the opposition at that time had a lot of comments, and our comments were not worthy of the confidence of the then coalition because the opposition was so-called a carrier of some professional or so-called professional knowledge. That's what this is about! If we listened to each other when the basic law was passed, we would not now try to apologize for the fact that the current coalition will be the one that will introduce choice. For if you are carefully reading the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it has been written and it has also been specifically explained on the working body, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is based on the spirit of the existing law. So the one with the 94th and 95th paragraphs is written as it is, and who assumes selectivity. The spirit of the law is that it implies the possibility of determining whether those criteria are fulfilled or not, and is given the discretionary right of the Minister to amend the fourth indent of Article 95 on the basis of what the National Museum finds and not to change the role of the National Museum, which is an advisory body to the Minister. So the thing is significantly more complicated than you want to show it now, because two moments need to be taken into account. The law was passed, the law was in force. What should be adopted in due time has not been accepted. Something needs to be changed and the existence of museums and galleries that are financed by state resources must now be resolved in an hasty fashion, but they are the founders of local communities and now you want to turn the story around. This is a fact and in this short time it has only been possible to change what needs to be changed in order for these very important institutions in their environment to be able to carry out a valuable cultural mission. This is what we are talking about, and it is right to want to see this purpose, which is why we are also adopting legislation after a reduced procedure, which makes it impossible to change a lot more, which will have to be done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I've found that there is still a desire for a debate, so I'm asking you to apply. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I have to say that I take this amendment very positively. The purpose is right and good, but it is very interesting how the attitude of some changes from opposition to position. It is precisely this matter that I, as mayor of several times in the debates, have said earlier what needs to be resolved, and I attach it to it today, but it is necessary to know that it is on the one hand a fire-fighting measure that solves the current situation, and that we in this country must take the whole law seriously, correct and fully and that these stories, which you point out from the local community, are certainly included in the content and do a full-state review of what is in the national interest, what is not. I must say that, as mayor, for example, the municipalities do not understand why Mauthausen, a monument of national importance, has no orderly memorial room in the first category. It is an object that is of unique importance on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, because it was the only concentration camp of the German Reich on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, and I am convinced that in other Slovenian municipalities there is another one of such stories which has been wrongly neglected and ignored, a number of content that may have been defined for some time as the content of national importance, and perhaps no longer fits that point. Let's say, I don't know, Slovenians are going to have to talk about the National Sports Museum sooner or later, and we could talk about the skiing museum, and what other content will we find for all of us from different angles. That is why it is difficult to resolve the story with an amendment that I like, but it is likely that a broader debate will have to be opened and those matters that need to be resolved there will also have to be resolved. I take your amendment well-intentioned, with affection, and as a coalition MP, I will be difficult to establish a partial story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Well, this thinking is interesting. It is said that we will no longer decide on content and meaning, but on a political basis. However, in this debate I would first like to draw attention to the next issue. In the 2009 budget, with this amendment or this amendment, we are saving 2009 for public institutions in the area of cultural heritage, €36.5 million - €36.5 million! The proposal you submitted to the National Assembly has only EUR 24 million left on this item. By letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, you have reduced this item to EUR 14 million; it is said to be less than one third. And that's a trend towards culture. And I believe what Mrs Richter is saying, the goal of this is only culture in large cities, and by what you have proposed, we are also saving or saving. It is not the aim of maintaining culture in rural areas, in small municipalities, in endangered communities and so on. That is why it is also so easy to propose an amendment to the law and solutions when it is determined, on the basis of a call for proposals, who fulfils the criteria that they are eligible for co-financing or funding, that we give the Ministry the exclusive right to choose those which will actually be financed. No invitation to tender is required in this case. It is better to directly empower the Ministry, directly by law, which chooses the ones it will finance and also foresees all programmes of enlargement, development and so on. The solution you have proposed is strongly directed towards the smaller environments that have cultural institutions in this area, and we certainly cannot agree with such a solution in our party. We therefore propose that we maintain the budget item at number 6417, the public institutions in the area of culture, which is $36.5 million for 2009, and that we also actually finance all those institutions that will meet the criteria under the call for proposals. We do not agree to the solution that the Ministry is the one who chooses some of those who meet all the conditions; probably someone in Celje, Maribor, Koper - in particular, in Cyprus, for example, around the university - in Ljubljana and so on. I don't think that's acceptable. Large cities already have an extremely large size per unit of surfaces, institutions superstandardly arranged, as well as all other solutions. And probably the aim of the state of Slovenia is to preserve culture in the countryside, even in smaller environments. For this reason, it makes sense - what colleague Sayovic said - that we will allow this amendment to be supported by the Ministry, then by amending the law below, through substantive amendments to the law, also, perhaps otherwise, to regulate this policy in the field of public institutions in the field of cultural heritage. Why not if the concept is different? But as long as we have public institutions in this area that have clearly been entitled to these co-financings so far, so the budget item is so large, then let us also ensure this in this transitional period. By doing so, we give the local community the opportunity to make an appropriate consideration for themselves within the next six months or one year, should things be done differently. I think that the proposal, as you suggest, is completely unacceptable. Five days before the new year, before the new financial year, you are changing the basic item for local communities! The cultural institutions in each municipality represent something, say, up to 5.6% of the budget in some municipalities are small. And if you're going to let it fall entirely on the local community, then it means a significant deterioration of other conditions for the functioning of these local communities. And in this way, we can't save culture. This means, at the same time, that this objective, which you have enshrined in the coalition agreement, is said to increase funding for culture and for any other area, will not be achieved. That's in direct contrast. For two-thirds, this item reduces funds! From $36 million to $14 million! I think that such a concept of cultural development on this item and probably also on another one, because activities there are no longer suitable. And I do not understand the proposalr, the Ministry of Culture, that he simply proposes a reduction in the budget line for the following financial year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u43	Minister Maja Shirca Ravnikar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, don't smile. You are an important and highly respected Member and not now inventing warm water to amend the budget here clearly adopted and which clearly speaks about what is financed by it, including in the field of protection of the cultural heritage of the public industrial sector. That's what you accepted. The way he is, he is. We have to implement it. Unfortunately, we also need to implement and correct literally a superficial, bad and law-abiding law, which causes headaches not only to state administration but also to museums. That's what I was told. This is what we are facing and we are trying to achieve in this interim period at least a correction of this very complicated, as Mrs Richter, the only professionally qualified to comment on this law, is the museum director who is well-trained in Celje, Mrs Richter. It's complicated to the end. Now you're making it even more complicated. By saying that we are changing the budget with this, it is as if a non-sentent, who does not know the subject, were speaking. Do not turn now because we sit in different positions, including philosophy. It is, this is the law, we don't like it, now we're saving it by gaining a transitional period. The item you are talking about, if I have to explain this to you, is linked not only to the implementation of this part of the public service in the area of museums and galleries, but to a wide range of public institutions of national importance, so to speak, the National Gallery, the National Museum ect. Not only in the area of museum and gallery activities, but all activities. When we talk about these 14.5 million euros, which are needed to provide this body of so-called mandated museums, which the state pays to municipalities and for some means the exhaustion of municipalities - this is an interesting thought that museums are the exhaustion of municipalities, as well as libraries - this is a very problematic thinking, even in the light of the reflection of once future divisions between provinces and countries or municipalities. In short, this sum does not change, so Mr Simoniti has signed it, so we have inherited it and it is right to ensure that it is implemented, because museums are justified and galleries to act. No one has any desire to turn Kostajeva on Krka, which works fantastically, the gallery, into something other than what it is. God does not allow such a breakdown of good practices to occur. But if you're all so careful about these numbers and you're modifying them within some corps where they're hiding on hundreds of warrants, not just the provision of public service, wages and the like, let me remind you that as Dr. Simonita or the guardian of this law, Mrs. Pirkovic, once said in this place, stands one. So that "this marriage brings more money to the congregations," I repeat, you can go look at the magnetogram, "as the one who now exists." And we will continue to implement it. According to data, under this law, which was in force until March 2008, the state for the operation of public institutions is expected to provide approximately the approximate figures for 67.2% for the museum activity. This law that we're dealing with right now is up to 80%, which means more money logically. Although, as you yourself have warned, this logic is still somewhat confused with the calculations the Ministry has made to explain the law and with which I operate as an heir. Another issue that reminds you of your amendment, which, if you are going to amend the laws and if today's thoughts of some Members are respected, there is a need for refreshment, if you follow the advice of lawyers who hold to their heads, how complicated matter is to be made, and if we are going to follow some thought after all, as summarized in the discussion of this law, which was in the State Council, very important discussions, and where museum societies, individual museums and galleryists, and have made clear what problems they have with this law - perhaps a little frightened, I agree, but if we also respect the coalition agreement that talks about the redefinition of this or the revisions of this law, then it is possible that this article will not even be applied. But even if you supported it as you wrote it down, something would happen that is already unacceptable if you looked at the following articles. In fact, a contract to conclude, to pay for these salaries at all, and other activities that we are not currently arguing about, but we are negotiating, could not be concluded. For the conclusion of a contract for the transfer of these funds, certain guarantees are necessary, such as those laid down in Articles 95, 96 and 94, 93, for the State and the local community to agree with the museums which receive the status of authorised museums after such a complicated process, this call, which includes this provision, is required as set out in Article 6 of Article 95. In short, I understand your desire and fears that you may have seen and not expressed once when it was necessary to talk about them exactly. In short, we would have disabled, say, the life force, the kind of marriage we have if we could defend this amendment. As it may be said, it may not have to be enforced if a necessary discussion is to be held by then on a different way of regulating the law on the protection of cultural heritage, which opens up some painful wounds in other areas, and we do not have the right today to open them up here, but they may need to be taken very professionally into discussion and, of course, into changes. It is not right, I agree, not only here, but also in other areas, it is not right for each government to come with changes to the law, which injures very sensitive habits, evasive systems, and ultimately also acquired standards. I face many comments myself, many of the desires of those affected to listen to the problems that this law brings. I am also speaking from this experience, which has further strengthened my conviction that this law must be revised in some places, while stressing that not all of the good arrangements it brings in certain segments of good regulation must be respected. And we have already admitted this since we adopted this law, but if I add this in the end, I have not voted for it, and you are, and for this arrangement, which you are now challenging.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Since there is still a desire to discuss it, I would like to request applications. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. On November 21st, you took over the Ministry's helm. We are now on December 16th, and I think it has been enough time for these three articles of the law to be studied qualitatively, to be referred to the Government for admission and then to the National Assembly. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is very bad for this proposal, for these amendments to the law. And there is no need for an excuse to the former Minister and to the former Secretary of State or anyone in the Ministry. You have taken political responsibility on 21 November and you are the one who proposed these solutions - weak, bad and so on. And it is very unfair for you to talk as a proponent about your predecessors, not about what you brought to the National Assembly; it is bad, incomplete and inconsistent. The amendment, which you have made yourself to correct this law, has also been extremely flawed; press errors, misstatements and so on. The previous coalition has nothing to do with this. I would also like to expect the intervention of the President of the National Assembly to remind the House, the former Member, of the current Minister that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not distinguish between those who can speak professionally and those who can speak. Unfortunately, such judgments are inappropriate. You, too, have been a member in the previous reference and have spoken many things, even in a non-professional way, but because you were a Member, you had this opportunity. And I do not allow, at least personally, not to select Members in the National Assembly, in our house, by the executive branch of power. Not at all on the part of the one who represents the highest peak of culture in this sphere. Also, the characterisation of the debaters by smiling is not exactly a level of communication between the representative of the executive branch and between the representative of the parliamentary assembly. I think there's something in this procedure with these numbers "not a deck." The budget item for 2009 in the budget, I read it, has an amount of €36 million, €36 million and a half million; the proposal you put into the National Assembly has 24 million euros and a few million more; the correction transmitted by the Secretary-General of the Government has a 14 million item. I hope that in three weeks, you are headed by the Ministry, all of these items, which are written, can be checked and recalculated whether it holds 14 million, or 24 million, or a budget item for 2009 of 36 and a half million euros. This is about some next number. And any proposal you made to the National Assembly represents a significant reduction in this item. I don't know what has changed since the adoption of the law in the Government until the hearing in the National Assembly that the necessary funds have been halved. I don't get it! With such a top-notch agenda, a team and a culture background in this area. This is probably not the fault of the previous government that you have drawn up a proposal to define the material consequences of 24 million and then reduced it to 14 million. The former government has nothing to do with this. The representative or proposer is the Ministry of Culture, the Minister, the Government has accepted this and we are now working on explaining which number of these holds and what will be the actual consumption in 2009 on this item. If the budget item is not implemented, it means a reduction in funding for culture, meaning directly, on the basis of the selection that is recorded in the solution you have adopted, a reduction in co-financing for municipalities and more of those public institutions that are fully at the burden of the municipalities. That's for sure. You don't have to go to college for that. You know this from the material consequences that have been written in the bill and from the supplementary explanations of the Secretary-General of the Government. Also, the solution that you wrote in the law to choose, on the basis of compliance with the invitation to tender, those that you will actually finance, I think that it is precisely taking this direction, the direction of selection from the choice of those who are entitled to state resources under the same conditions of compliance with the invitation to tender, and those who, because you are in a position to do so, will not be granted and some municipalities, in particular the smaller ones, will be forced to decide whether they will actually give money to public institutions in the field of culture and will give up infrastructure or other things or will simply terminate these institutions. You're putting them in front of an impossible choice! And as long as the country has the option, as we have suggested, it can service these matters, provide funding and then allow municipalities to adjust them accordingly with some procedure. Not with 1. 1. 2009 set up a system for 20 municipalities! That, I think, is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Well, the president will know when to intervene if necessary. At this point, there was no need for you so far. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, right now, I'm gonna ask for your application. Please. Mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Yes, and I must really oppose this last proposal from Mr Tank. "Proposed solutions are bad," you said. I am interested in how the 32 mayors of local communities feel now, who, with opposition, will be respected colleagues in the party of Slovenian Democrats - of course they will not receive these funds for financing these museums. I'm warning you, it's not a big center. These are cities, such as Stična in Dolenjska, where we have a religious museum, as it is fully funded by the Ministry of Culture, and Piran and not least Kočevje, Tržič, Kamnik. We could still list it. Among them we find very many small centers where these museums are. That is why this proposed solution, which is a solution for the transfer of funding to the Ministry of Culture, is good for me in the year we come up with other substantive solutions. This leaves funding on the shoulders of the country, of course only the existence that work is running smoothly. And we're not talking about all the institutions that we're going to be clear. Today we're talking museums and galleries. And this amount, which is here, in the whole item, is not just about funding these institutions, which is 14 million and a half, in other amounts means additional funding through calls, where other content is also financed when we are talking about exhibition activities or other content. It would be good if we really looked at these solutions in the proposal for a new law. And for us, at least for the Social Democrats, the proposed amendment to the new law is good, as it will continue to finance at least the 32 local communities in which funding is already being made through the Ministry of Culture. And there's probably someone else to add to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask you in advance to understand that I would not be interrupted because I will not talk about the amendment, but about Article 1 and what has been said in terms of the quality of the law. Indeed, the amendment tabled by a group of coalition parliamentary groups stated that the amendment to Article 1 was the first written error. Another mistake that was a misrepresentation of the paragraph that we are correcting. It was written in the second paragraph, it should be written in the first. These are two errors: one in spelling, the other in nomotechnic. However, what we corrected in the substantive terms of the amendment was the recommendation of the Legal and Legislative Service, which in its opinion was based on the spirit of the law, which provided that museums whose founders are local communities would be selected for public funding on the basis of the call for proposals. I said this because I am convinced that on Friday afternoon you did not listen to the working body meeting and that it would create the wrong belief that everything in this amendment was so very wrong. What I am pleased to note, however, is that the current coalition has listened to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and has also taken note of the comments made in Article 2, although the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the amendment proposed by the opposition Members cannot be accepted because it is impossible to amend the unopened articles in the shorter procedure. This is a contribution to the actual state of things in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The funds are shrinking more and more. It is unfair to burden the local community, because, as we know, this money is never as much as it is necessary. And then there are projects that have been set up on the shoulders of the congregations, which are already facing this problem. However, we cannot afford to see local communities falling out of this cultural activity because of money from the budget. The amendment helps our congregations. Museums should not be just burdensome to the congregations. The municipalities need to offer such an option that the interest will be greater, not to leave our heritage to the mercy or unmercifulness of the congregations. I therefore support the amendments tabled by the SDS, the Slovenian People's Party and the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Today we are discussing an interesting matter, but not so much by content, but by something else. In fact, I've noticed that something new has apparently come up with this government, that much less means something more. Indeed, the former minister said that 32 congregations would receive fewer if our amendment was adopted. But something doesn't work out here. I don't know whether my debate will be an expert or just a debate, because it seems that this has now become important for this new government, but I think because I was elected to have the right to debate. If I compare this with the current words, the current minister, who we cannot tell her that she will know everything, is clear, I would not want to discuss this; she is a familiarity with this area, because she said that the municipalities would receive more resources. But something doesn't go together here. If, first of all, EUR 36 million - indeed in a broader context, I also admit - these funds have been reduced to EUR 24 million, and now, by letter from the Secretary-General, they have been reduced to around EUR 14 million. And now I don't understand how 14 million euros can be more than 24 or 36. That's what they say. Someone's gonna have to be with the asset, and probably no one's gonna get any more money. And this was sent by that secretary-general, who also planted a document with the President of the Government. Madam Minister, I hope that you have not been framed either, or that, from your field, this Secretary-General has not planted any document on the President of the Government and that you have then accepted that we have EUR 11 million less funding for the financing of museums and other institutions. If you haven't noticed, then maybe you can really say there'll be more resources. But unfortunately, with a letter from the Secretary-General, you were robbed of 11.4 million or 11.5 million euros. You have to pay attention to that. And that doesn't mean any more resources for local communities. For God's sake, how, if they take something from you, they'll have more. And we'd like to keep it the way it used to be, because this amendment of ours doesn't contaminate the number of these institutions, it doesn't convulsion. The text you have is cramping. It is said that some local communities will only be left with, unfortunately, no resources. I talked earlier about what criteria you'll use, because the ministry of those who meet the criteria will then cross over and choose the most convenient. Now, which, by what criteria, I don't know. And that's the point. Therefore, concern is also expressed that fewer funds are available for the congregations to receive fewer. But they can't get any more, and you won't convince me to do that, and my debate is either professional or just a debate. Math is it, math. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! I would like to thank the amendments, because I think they have opened a good debate that is going in the right direction. I also read the amendment, including the explanation, and it stands as such. However, I agree with the estimates that, at this point, the matter is not yet sufficiently specific and there is still too much uncertainty and that it would be irresponsible now to include such a dictatorship, which I think is basically good. I would therefore call on the Ministry to take this debate into account further when the whole law is being amended and not only to put out the fire, but also to call on the proposers to continue such thinking so that we can come together to a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u57	Thank you. Minister Maja Shirca Ravnikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u58	Just a short replica. First said around these numbers. I'm not a fan of conspiracy theory, but now I believe that maybe they found me too. For now, perhaps this lady, who, at great speed, when the Ministry was aware that she had to solve this problem, was tripping, as I said on the committee, and instead of writing the two, was perhaps also part of this conspiracy, that it is now understood as a matter of intent that the Government would once again want to reduce funds for the functioning of public museums or galleries. It's not working. This is a coded number, which has been explained, not a theory of reducing funds. There is no way we can reduce funds. The financial implications mentioned in this novel are the same as the financial consequences of the adoption of the law last year or this spring and we do not change anything, although we would actually like to. After all, there is a question here that we will have to open in the balance. What about wages in terms of equalisation or wage management in the public sector, which have not been taken into account here when this law was adopted and which will have to be taken into account. If I start only one of the issues that concern public sector financing also in the field of institutions in a broader sense. This is said not only to be a segment within the fourteen million euros under the sixties, as the whole item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that there is no longer a desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in Road Transport, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. We will wait a moment for the word if the Government is here because I do not believe that the Minister of Culture will present this draft. [[...]] No comment. Government representatives are on their way. So, as I said, the draft law has been tabled by the Government, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u60	Thank you, President. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give a brief explanation in the introduction to this Amendment and to supplement the Road Transport Act for which a short discussion has been proposed. The purpose of the amendments introduced by the law is, in particular, the following. Bus services are currently carried out on the basis of the Regulation on concessions for the conduct of an economic public service, the implementation of the public line transport of passengers in inland road transport adopted under the Road Transport Act 2001. On the basis of concession contracts, 45 bus carriers operate in our country. After 31st. 12. 2008 current concessionaires will no longer have a legal basis for the execution of an economic public service, so they will have neither the right nor the duty to carry out transport within this public service. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through bus carriers, decides on a concession contract under the existing road transport law, has no legal basis to extend the validity of the concession contracts concluded. In the current situation, it is necessary to ensure that bus operators are also in position after 1. 1. 2009 carry out regular line transport and the new government will have time to decide on a new model for the implementation of the economic public service and to make appropriate organisational and financial changes accordingly. We have already contacted bus operators, namely, the Ministry has been requested to increase the compensation for the provision of services in the context of the public service and to abolish the maximum compensation currently provided for in the existing contracts. The content of their requirements calls for an increase of €12.5 million in compensation for transport to around €29 million, which would mean an additional burden on the 2009 budget by 16.5 million. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads has already begun the process of coordinating the core elements of the new concession contracts for the transitional period from 1. 1. 2009 to 31. 12. 2010 We expect the Slovenian Directorate of Roads to be up to 1. 1. 2009 managed to sign new concession contracts with bus operators. Decisions to impose the public service obligation of line passenger transport on existing concessionaires are also available for the most extreme situation when contracts are not signed. In doing so, I must say that we will do everything at the Ministry of Transport to ensure that such a extreme measure does not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u61	The bill dealt with the mother's working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Janko Webr, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, everybody! At its 2nd urgent meeting, on 15 December 2008, the Committee held a hearing on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. As part of this hearing, Minister Patrick Vlačič presented in his opening presentation the reasons for the adoption of the draft law relating to the circumstances that there would be no legal basis for the extension of concession contracts for the execution of the public service and for compensation to carriers. This, among others, would have a major impact on students, students and certainly have very wide and irreparable economic and social consequences, as bus transport is used daily by some 100,000 people. According to the assessment of legal and other experts, the prevention of irreparable consequences can only be achieved under the given circumstances by adopting amendments and supplementing the Road Transport Act, which will allow for the temporary extension of concession contracts. The proposed law allows for the temporary granting of a concessional public service for the provision of public passenger line services without a call for tender, but for a maximum period of two years. The Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly also gave an opinion on the law. In its opinion, it recalls that the law should be examined in more detail both in terms of clarity of the provisions and in terms of the legal system, in particular in relation to the applicable legal arrangements for the award of concessions and the implementation of the economic public service. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee has drawn up two amendments, which are in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and which have also been adopted by the Committee at its meeting. In the debate, the members of the Committee pointed out that the proposed period of two years in which an invitation to tender for the conclusion of concessions was to be issued should be reduced to one year and a half. The amendments tabled in the Committee's amendments followed these discussions, but the amendment committee rejected them, as it was felt that these proposals, which had been tabled with amendments, could also be taken into account for a period of up to two years. After the discussion, the Transport Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them. The Committee also proposes to the National Assembly that such an amended proposal be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u64	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport is as follows. The proposal to supplement the Road Transport Act introduces the implementation of the public economic service, on the basis of the extension of concessions or new concessions without a call for tender, and introduces the imposition of a public service action to ensure the smooth implementation of public transport without a call for tender. The basic draft law, which was tabled under the urgency procedure, does not clearly specify and specify the reasons and circumstances under which the new measures or arrangements envisaged could be applied. Furthermore, it is unclear when either of the three measures could be applied. The proposal also prolongs concessions which expire on 31. 12. 2008 While it is true that a limited extension period is introduced for all new measures and for the extension of current concessions, a maximum of two years. However, this time of extension, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is the most controversial and certainly too long a transitional period. It also seems disputed that before the new regulation of the European Community is implemented, the possibility of exempting public transport without tender is being introduced quickly. As all the tasks mentioned above are known, they already fall within the work area of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, under the current provisions. Article 49 of the Basic Law already provides for the possibility of issuing decisions to impose the implementation of public transport. The additions and amendments adopted on the Home Committee improve the initial proposal of the Ministry and remain a dilemma in the details of the urgency of accepting exemptions and a time-consuming period for those. Complementing the law by emergency procedure is supported solely for reasons of preventing possible complications and damage that would have occurred if by 1. 1. 2009 transport would no longer be possible. According to the Ministry of Education, especially for so-called school transports. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the introduction of a two-year deadline for the implementation of new calls and also for the duration of the action to impose transport operations is certainly too long a period of time. Therefore, on the parental committee, we proposed, together with the SDS, that this previous period should be reduced to one year. The Slovenian People's Party's Group has even proposed a compromise proposal - a period of validity of not more than one and a half years, and both options have unfortunately been voted on. That is why today we have tabled new amendments together with both opposition parliamentary groups, which, of course, will be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are, in principle, committed to the compulsory award of concessions on the basis of calls for public services. Therefore, we will support the complementary proposal of the law by emergency procedure as an exception in the event that the time frame for emergency measures and the award of concessions is reduced to one year. So that they will be accepted in addition to the addition of the parental committee, also our amendments to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister with fellow Members, distinguished Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Public line bus transport is in some ways the pastor of transport policy and its carriers, in particular the Ministry of Transport. The number of passengers in line bus and coach traffic is decreasing steadily, causing the activity to have been in crisis for quite some time. Unfortunately, despite the environmental, energy and financial economic crisis, the main means of transport in Slovenia remains a passenger car with an average of 1.1 passengers. The mere failure of the public passenger transport system shows the complete failure of the transport policy and its carriers. It is the fault of the previous government or the Ministry of Transport that we found ourselves in the area of line bus transport in such situations as to require a change in the intervention law so that bus transport could even take place in early 2009. Despite all the problems she's faced, she should be able to carry out this task. In particular, it should be pointed out that there were no reasons why new concessions could not be completed by the current concession period. The Public Line Transport Regulation has been coordinated by the Ministry of Transport with carriers for more than two years. By the end of the term of office of the previous Government, this Regulation had not been forwarded for government consideration. That the concessions received by all bus carriers in 2003 expire at the end of this year, all those responsible knew. Therefore, a special working commission has also been set up to prepare a new concession regulation in this area. Let me just remind you of some facts. In the said working group, a year ago they tended to a solution whereby only one concession would be granted or the whole of Slovenia would be one concession area. They discussed the relevance and need to establish a public passenger traffic manager. The month of March, this year, was a protest bus ride across the Ministry of Transport building, which alerted bus carriers to unsuccessful negotiations with the country, called for an increase in the standard cost price and for an increase in compensation and a gradual reduction in bus fares and thus an increase in the price of rail tickets. In April, the situation became so acute that bus carriers threatened to bring 50 buses to the Ministry of Transport for the cancellation of the concession contracts so far and that, as contractors in court, they would apply for underpayments because the compensation was lower than that provided for in the current Regulation. Furthermore, the Ministry of Transport of Bus Carriers in particular calmed down and predicted a solution to be provided by the new concession contract. The fact is that carriers are and still require an increase in the cost price and an increase in compensation or compensation. Bus carriers provided new points for negotiations on concession contracts to the Ministry of Transport in September, but negotiations were halted due to technical and, in particular, substantive differences. The simple fact is that the previous government with bus operators failed to reconcile itself, failed to implement the procedure for granting new concessions, and failed to do so with 1. 1. 2009 without the adoption of this intervention law, there will no longer be a legal basis on which the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads could extend concession contracts and also pay compensation to motorists on this basis. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we firmly believe that it is essential to maintain at least the current level of mobility of citizens with public line road transport, and the aim must be to improve this mobility and the quality of bus transport, especially for residents in remote areas. However, the proposed amendment to the law, which addresses only the acute situation, does not guarantee the achievement of this objective. The new Government and the new Minister of Transport will have to carry out a fundamental reform of the public passenger transport system in Slovenia, taking into account the regulations and directives of the European Union governing integrated public passenger transport. We will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u68	Nice to meet you again. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the Government's decision to allow the extension of existing concession contracts for up to a maximum of two years by amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. After this period, of course, we also expect a public tender to be issued for the award of concessions to liners. We support such a bill because, in the present situation, when the Government did not carry out all the procedures under the previous mandate that would allow for a public invitation to tender for concessions to bus and coach carriers, we find that, as of 1 January 2009, bus transport could be lost in Slovenia. This could certainly mean very great economic damage and very serious problems for our inhabitants, or all those who use bus and coach transport. The period of up to two years laid down in the law speaks of talking about a period of up to two years. Therefore, it is also possible for the Government to carry out these procedures for granting concessions even in a shorter period. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the amendments of the SDS, SLS and SNS members wishing to shorten the period during which concessions are to be granted are unnecessary, since the law itself allows the Government to carry out all the necessary procedures within a short time frame and that is why we will not support these amendments. With regard to the amendment for the introduction of a single ticket, we note that the deadline of the previous parliamentary groups in the amendment is not realistic, especially in the light of the current conditions of the Slovenian Railways. The fact is that it is time to coordinate the timetables and, in particular, to carry out all the relevant procedures so that we can also carry out the proper calculation of the single ticket, but a little longer than 31 December 2009. The fact is that both our liners and bus and train stations are not adequately equipped to introduce a single ticket in such a short time. We are certainly aware, however, in the Group of Social Democrats, that the introduction of a single ticket is one of the appropriate and necessary measures to improve the situation in the field of line transport, in particular by increasing the interest in the use of these means of transport on the basis of a single ticket. However, we expect a precise plan to be prepared for this, which, of course, will also need to be evaluated and then implemented in due course. In this way, we will support in the Social Democrats' Group the text of the amended bill, as drafted by the Transport Committee, and we will not support the amendments tabled at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlic, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u70	Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, which was transmitted by the Government in the course of an emergency procedure, addresses the legal void of the existing Road Transport Act, which provides in its 50th Article that the public line transport of passengers in public transport can be granted only and only on the basis of a tender with concessions to the most favourable transport providers, which is within the power of the Government. The existing law did not provide for an option that may arise in the event of exceptional circumstances when we may find ourselves in a situation of exceptional circumstances, i.e. interruption of the service when the economic public service of public line passenger transport is not possible for any reason. It is then necessary to define measures and deadlines in order to ensure the smooth implementation of public line transport, which must be truly temporary, well-founded and, above all, must take as short a time as possible. Let me stress that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we agree that a change of law is necessary and in view of the resolution of this legal void to the idea of amending the law as such, I do not oppose it. In our view, however, the proposal for a law tabled in the Government procedure was substantively unclear and insufficient to the extent that we tried to improve it on the Transport Committee itself with the amendments tabled. The fundamental question, which remains open, even after a further proposal by the amendments adopted by the Transport Committee adopted by the coalition and opposed to them, is that the proposal for amendments to the law in its Article 1 does not answer the questions of the circumstances, the situations in which, and for what reasons, this article will be able to apply, which it has also clearly pointed out in its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. As a proposal for a law is now being prepared, concessions may be awarded to bus operators in cases where the validity of concessions expires before new or in the case of withdrawal of the concession may be awarded without a call for tender for a period of two years. The reasons for such a situation are not given anywhere. In theory, two years from now, we can be in the same position again, since there is no guardian in marriage to prevent such a situation from repeating or repeating itself. Therefore, in the SDS, SLS and SNS groups, we have tabled an amendment proposing that such an exceptional extension be possible only with the consent of the National Assembly, thereby at least partially mitigating this inadequacy in the law regarding the reasons for the occurrence of exceptional circumstances. Our next amendment refers to a period within which such an exceptional extension may be permitted under this law. We suggest that the law allows for an extension of up to 3. 12. 2009 when the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on public services for rail and road passenger transport enters into force and is fully binding and directly applicable in all Member States and also addresses these issues. In such a way that the said Regulation can also be directly applied from this date, which is likely to be clearer from a legal and systemic point of view. In the last amendment, we propose that, within one year at least, bus carriers who will receive extended concessions without a call for tender be included in the single ticket system. In view of the extent to which our amendments will be taken into account, we will also decide to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Damian Perne has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u72	Dear Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Members and Members of Parliament. The novelty that we are talking about is, in fact, a fire-fighting measure. Just like we talked about the last point. I'm just afraid that this won't be more of a measure before some flood of similar problems than we're told here. The amendment of the law is proposed because the Regulation on concessions for the provision of an economic public service for the provision of public line transport for passengers in inland road transport or the law under which this Regulation was adopted no longer has a legal basis for concession contracts. That's what we've heard before. What does that mean? This means that if this novel is not accepted after January 1st, at least research has shown that there is still, even though we are saying that we are increasingly driving cars, there are more than 100,000 people involved in public transport, and after 1. 1. All these people actually lose their regular bus transport. Bus carriers won't even have the right or the duty to drive on our roads. That is why we believe, and the position of the Group of Members is indeed that this novel should be accepted and we will support this novelty. As far as the amendment is concerned, our parliamentary group of amendments will not support it. The main point of this amendment is, of course, the time limit, which is decreasing. We believe that the deadline is set by 31 December 2010, of course we are talking about the deadline and it is possible to arrange things earlier, well set. The main question that comes to me when I look back is how the competent ministry under the previous government, even though it knew what was going to happen, simply did not prepare the appropriate conditions for granting concessions. Looks like time was too short. So I don't think it makes sense for us to be further limited now that we're looking at things. Therefore, the Group of Members is indeed going to support the amendment of the law on amendments to the Road Transport Act and not the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u74	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a solution to the amendment to the Road Transport Act. The applicant proposes amendments allowing the granting of a concession to an economic service for the execution of public passenger line services without a call for tender, in cases where it is not possible to carry out a public tender or where there are no other reasons for the conduct of an economic public service. The amendment ensures that the concessions in force are extended for a period up to the time of the tender but for a maximum period of two years. However, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law do not derogate from the objectives of the original Road Transport Act, as the amendments only allow for a temporary extension of concession contracts which will be awarded on the basis of a public tender after the end of the temporary period. We would like to point out that this amendment is a matter of a fire-fighting law, since the competent services at the Ministry should point out in due time that the end of the law is approaching and in this case react, so they should propose appropriate measures and amendments to the law in due time. If government services were to do their job, they would avoid emergency procedures and any harmful consequences. If the bill had not been adopted, the Republic of Slovenia would have remained 1. 1. 2009 without public bus service lines, if concession contracts are to expire otherwise 31. 12. 2008, they're not going to extend. It is unacceptable that the joblessness, apathy and carelessness of government services can cause irreparable harm to the state, which would be felt by virtually all citizens and citizens who are connected to public transport, schoolchildren, students and students, workers and, lastly, pensioners. It is precisely because of the time-consuming reactions of government services, to which we have repeatedly warned in the DeSUS Group, that laws containing time-limited provisions should put in place some guardians, who would have foreseen early enough the necessary measures to prevent the unpleasant consequences that would result from the expiry of the applicable provisions of the law. In doing so, we would like to point out or suggest that all public transport providers, namely bus and rail transport, should be coordinated. According to our assessment, it would not be a bad proposal for a part of the concession contract to be a provision or a requirement for these tenderers to harmonise each other. They align the time of arrivals and departures of trains and buses. In particular, this means that a passenger who, for example, arrived by train in a place must wait for bus transport and vice versa. Now, in practice, passengers on their own skin feel the complete inflexibility of public transport providers. Of course, practical general tickets should be provided so that passengers do not need more different tickets. There are currently combined tickets, but only for certain relationships. Otherwise, as has already been said, the DeSUS Group supports the proposed changes to the law. The Group does not support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party. It also does not support the amendment to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! It is quite clear that the change itself is not controversial and is in some way necessary. Maybe it's the first one in the new term of the current minister who's not overlooked. But, as has already been said, if government officials were to be responsible for their work as workers in direct production, there would probably be some responsibility here. For it is unacceptable for us to accept at a time when it is almost New Year’s holiday, this regulation or this supplement, because it could be after 1. 1. 2009 bus carriers said that we do not have the right to drive on the roads, and this would be a waste of public school transport, which is the only public, so-called mass public transport in life in general. So if there is no greater responsibility on the part of government officials, then these things will still happen. And the previous marriage was also a necessary measure because something was overlooked. However, I do not understand why we should insist on giving something away for a period of up to two years without a public invitation to tender. Is not the invitation to tender something that eliminates suspicion of bias, suspicion of dishonesty, and suspicion of some negotiation under the table? And it is these amendments, which we have also signed, that give us the opportunity to make this a formal case, to remedy the law in such a way that we can even sign the invitation to tender and then correct it. By one year it would be entirely appropriate to give an opportunity to someone we don't even know about whether he will be called, whether he is already a bus carrier, and whether he will be a bus carrier who has become a new one or is still in the stage of production. The question that we are also reminded of by the Legal and Legislative Service relates to whom the concession should be awarded on the basis of these decisions. That is to say, to which performers, outside the possible range of concessionaires, or any that are emerging from a new or possibly one that does not have a concession so far. In short, it's very opaque, irresponsible, and who's going to make that decision doesn't even know. It could be a minister, it could be a ministry or I don't know who, Vlada. In short, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we can talk about the Minister acting very biasedly because he gave someone the opportunity to work, but not to others. This is a very sensitive area and precisely because this amendment is well-intentioned and because it is also in the context of what Regulation 137/02 requires, it would make sense in 2007 to take these amendments into account. I believe that both the opposition and the position will vote in favour of this law with or without amendments because these are necessary. We simply cannot afford not to vote on these amendments to this law. However, if any of the comments are well-intentioned and the amendments that we have signed are well-intentioned, it would be necessary to stop the old practice of exclusion when it is in previous mandates, and I will just say so, in all mandates, it was a practice to look at the front page first, who signed it, and that is not true, but we will break it. Simple corrections call for transparency, greater honesty and the elimination of possible injustices that will be allowed and, of course, a single ticket would be after so many years when we are talking about a single ticket, a necessity, and of course this should happen 1. 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the Members of the Union. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, SLS and SNS parliamentary groups. I'm opening a debate. Would you like to discuss it? Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I personally believe that it is very important that we actually accept and give the concessionaire a concession, but not in such a form, in the form in which it has actually been proposed from the SDS Group, as well as from New Slovenia and Really. The second thing I would really like to stress is the Concessionaries in Slovenia is sixty-six, Mr Minister said fifty-five. [[...]] Sixty concessionaires, of which all bus carriers are in fact two hundred and seventy-seven. Among other things, it has been said that funding will increase by €16.5 million. We know that fuel actually fell to the same level as it did last June 2007. Then the question is whether there will actually be an increase for other carriers in Slovenia. In what way will the remaining carriers be able to increase these assets. Did you happen to think of these funds, 16.5 million, for the purchase of new buses, which we know are very critical of certain companies? You remember how many accidents happened in school transports. I don't know, you're going to explain this, but I would like to point out that quality bus carriers are going to get even more money by doing this job anyway, and those smaller bus carriers are probably going to get less money to do their job. After all, we must be aware that in Slovenia, in principle, there are 6,732 carriers and all create 5.3% of GDP in Slovenia. That's no small thing. That is why I believe that we should go to this amendment of the law fundamentally so that you do not have any problems in January with other carriers in this regard before the Ministry or otherwise. I absolutely support the amendment that has been tabled from our side, and I will also confirm it and stand behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u80	So in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we decided to table this amendment for a simple reason because we wanted a law that would be improved in good faith. Let me get this straight. Each exception is a special circumstance in each marriage. Unfortunately, the existing law of this special circumstance, this exceptionalness, that we can get into a situation where, for such or other reasons, the concession has not been granted in time, then we come into some kind of position when there is no exit and there can be a situation that we are now in 14 days. Because this is an exceptional situation, because the circumstances that I think must be precisely defined in the law, when these exceptional circumstances arise, what is the reason for the exceptional circumstances, why they have come to this deadline of exceptionality as short as possible. I don't think any situation that's been going on for a long time is good. Therefore, in its basic law, in its original Article 1, the Government's proposal referred to Regulation 1370 of the European Parliament and of the Council on public services in postal, rail and road transport, which also addresses this exceptional situation. This Regulation will also enter into force directly on 3 December 2009. So from then on, we have a legal system solution for the reasons why a service is terminated, when a condition arises for an exceptional circumstance. However, since then, even on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and I also believe the debates on the Transport Committee, it has come to the conclusion that something that will only apply in one year is not good to enter into the law that we now have on the table, then these amendments have come to light, which, as they are now submitted, as the law has been supplemented, speak only of cases of what happens when a concession expires and what needs to be done, but do not talk about the circumstances that have led to these situations. That is why we are proposing and here is a fellow Member who presented the position of the DeSUS Group, saying, "Yes, we would probably need a guardian," well, I think we are in this amendment in the first paragraph and then in the third paragraph, that is to say the sixth and eighth paragraphs of this Article, added that there is a possible extension, beware, it is also an extension when we do not have an invitation to tender for the award of an economic public service. I think that when it comes to public funds, right, it is the basis, it is the principle of public tender. Here we have an exceptional circumstance which dictates a measure without a call for tender and we do not know exactly why this has occurred, so it seems appropriate for us to give consent to the National Assembly. In addition, I would point out that, in the case of such an act, when it comes to the extension of the economic service of public passenger public line transport in public passenger transport, it is right to give consent to the National Assembly for a certain period of exceptional circumstances and the extension without a call for tender. So the National Assembly is aware of this. I think it's a good proposal and that's why it added up. And of course, due to the urgency of the measure, it seems to us that the deadline of one year is more than enough for the public concession to be awarded. Therefore, I also propose that you support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Verlich. The word is Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team. Colleagues and colleagues. There is another law before us today that we can call "the Fire Act" because, in my opinion, we are putting out the fire needlessly, by absolutely knowing who the pyroman is or who set the fire. And here I can say that incompetence or mismanagement of the previous government. Both in the previous case and in the present, in this law. And it's very interesting to hear Dr. Verlic's explanation, who sat at the Ministry for four years as the Secretary of State and failed to negotiate with bus carriers and some others, and that he had a decree prepared for over a year, but he failed to get under the roof and that is why today this meeting is an urgent meeting ahead of New Year's holidays, so that 1. 1. 2009 will not, in a way, stop Slovenia because we will not have a new concession contract. And why, or very plastically, I will say: there is no difference between the SDS and our proposal, just one thing to find, and this is the deadline, because the ministry says it takes a maximum of two years to award a new concession contract or an invitation to tender, and you say no more than one year. And that's the basic difference, although I guess, at least I hope you're aware of all the problems that they are. And the key problem is that the previous government did not know how to establish dialogue with different groups. If you've been monitoring the news, I think the Minister of this Government, the Minister of Transport, has already conducted a conversation two days or one days ago and has begun a dialogue with carriers. And I believe you will succeed. The circumstances in which this occurred are very clear. And one more thing. When SDS or Mr Verlič pointed out that there has been a legal void, we know why this legal void has occurred, that it has been a poor work of professional services, as well as of the Ministry of Transport. I will, of course, support the law personally, but I will not support the amendment, which is so that today we can debate and find the culprits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I hear you correctly, your microphones don't work; so much for a warning. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! It seems to me that we will go too far if we point fingers at those who have led before and those who are leading now that they must do what they have not done before, and forget that there are two coworkers sitting next to the minister who are precisely aware of how this has happened in the past, to say, in fact, to the part of the team that remains with the minister. And it seems to me that some understanding and trust among the closest members of each ministry is essential for good cooperation. In this particular case, two of the closest co-workers who cover this area, who know this area in detail, are sitting with the Minister of Transport today. So much for understanding. As regards the exercise of the public economic service itself, as defined in Article 50 of the current law, and the consideration of Article 1 of the amendment proposal before us, it should be stressed that the State is responsible for the provision of the public economic service. It is important to note some of the inconsistencies that have taken place in the past and are still taking place. One of the speakers, the representatives of the parliamentary groups, pointed out this well - coordination of timetables. When talking about the performance and provision of public economic services, coordination of timetables should also be taken into account. Here we run into those who perform this public economic service, i.e. the carriers that are so many and so many thousands and 46 who perform this public economic service. It should be borne in mind that, just yesterday, they also expressed their dissatisfaction with the prices they achieve with these concessions. By the way, what happened? They found themselves in a situation where, on the one hand, they monitored the fluctuations in these fuels in the world markets and were almost satisfied when the situation turned out to be of their own good. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia raises excise duties and puts public carriers back in an unfavourable position. Once they were convinced that they were doing better, it turned out exactly the opposite and, of course, their desire and demand for higher prices are understandable if they continue to perform this public economic service in the future. And another important moment is here, which is also proposed by the amendment's proponents. You know, here in the public economic service, when it comes to the transport of passengers, we must not forget that one of the basic tasks of ensuring this is also a single ticket. It's not that far, Karlshur, where they've had it pretty decent and it's been arranged for a long time. Some public carriers have already seen this. I don't know where that key element is, which is why we don't hope to make a single ticket. That would reduce some of the costs. On the other hand, public carriers, both bus and rail. We know that Slovenian railways in the field of passenger transport have also been lost; it helps to force users to make their way easier even when you have a single ticket that you can use in public bus or in rail or other traffic. In short, it is a whole network of these public economic services, where the government should actually cut down and collapse into this sour apple as soon as possible. That is why we have actually had a desire to make an amendment, and we are trying to influence it by cutting it down to one year. For by this we would finally attain that there will be no more excuses, even after the conclusion of this term, who is to blame for not having come to a single ticket. In short, one year is enough time for these things to be settled. But it is so that, however we extend it to two years, without a call for proposals, you know, it's not good. If we want to ensure transparent use of public funds on the other hand, we must also create the legal basis for this, and I am sure that, with regard to the amendment proposed by the opposition parties, we should consider and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Marinic. Before the debate, Mr Verlic asked me to explain my debate on Mr Han's debate. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's quite a brief replica to my fellow Member Han because he mentioned me in person. See, life is not black and white, life is obviously not just a division in your-ours, as it is obvious that it is now very much heard in the National Assembly, and we will probably hear about what the previous government has done badly, which is what the entire mandate of this government has done, but, I want to say to this part of how the previous government has done nothing, see the Regulation on concessions for the management of the economic public service for the implementation of public passenger transport in internal road transport was adopted in August 2004 and there concessions were granted by the end of 2008. [[...]] [[...]] Perhaps if they had been given there for a longer period of time, we would not have had this problem here today. So much so that we know at which time a regulation has been adopted, but so much so by the way. But I also have work here, video clips, negotiations on transport concessions at the Ministry of Transport without progress. That's what it says in the address, the minister and the team, I want plenty of success in the negotiations. But for now, it says there's no progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Verlich. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In this case, you don't have to point your finger here. I was a former minister, and I have consciously decided that this is as it is today and I will also try to explain to you why and also why I think it is right that a one-year period is what I believe matters can be arranged. I have worked hard on this concession act myself to be properly regulated and, of course, I have understood it as something that will completely save bus transport, all bus transport, because we know that this area is not sufficiently regulated at this point, it is not transparent, and you know that bus carriers get from different, I will say in quotations, state resources a lot of money. The concessional act that we have drawn up at the Ministry has also meant that this area, which I stress once again, is then disorderly to be settled. There have been many discussions, I insisted on finding a compromise with bus operators to agree on one concession area, because at the Ministry we thought it was better for each other, but we never insisted that this one concession area should be. I wanted this to be an agreement and we all agree. I hope that the co-workers of the current minister will confirm this, and I hope that the current minister does not receive any different support than I have received. Unfortunately, we found ourselves just before the elections and found that school transport was not regulated in this concession act. Those who are mayors are probably very familiar with this issue and you know that this issue is very, very difficult for bus carriers here to benefit from what is called "crowd" and if you ask each other about each other you will see that each pays a hundred and one different price. And it was my wish that these school transports also take over this concession act. In this time pressure, when we were just before the elections, my decision was conscious. By checking whether this law, which is on the table today, can be amended and extended in due time before the end of this year, we have found that this is possible, and that is why we are doing so today. My decision was to extend the matter by one year. So, for the first time because of school transport, secondly because we did not have the financial resources provided, you know that if we want to raise public passenger transport to a higher level, it will be more competitive to make it more modern, to make people more friendly, we will also need to invest more in it, but under transparent conditions. So, that was the second reason why I decided as I did, and the third reason was because we were before the elections and any constructive conversation with anyone was not possible. And once again, I am sure, but I allow the possibility of leaving the matter for two years, but I am sure, given how much materials are made and I know what materials are available at the Ministry, that it is possible to do so within one year and I think we are making a mistake to be someone at the Ministry - and here I am not thinking about the Minister, far from this, but about his colleagues - that we will give them the silence to give them time to prepare this important area for a year. That's my personal opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Zerjav. The list is exhausted. Anybody else want some? Mr. Minister Patrick Vlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. With regard to the conditions for temporary concessions at the Ministry, we estimate that the conditions are clear. In fact, one condition is when concessions expire, in such a case the situation is time-consuming and the other condition is the withdrawal of the concession - the circumstances are laid down in such a case in other legal acts. With regard to public tenders, they cannot be implemented in such a short time and contracts with existing carriers are concluded for the implementation of public economic services. Thus, we do not see any major problems in this regard. If these carriers are 46, one of us got away and we're gonna catch him back, it wasn't in any way intention of letting anyone out of this story. In marriage, I agree, a lot needs to be changed, but not by an emergency procedure. There are many rules, many higher standards today in bus and coach transport, which we will follow in the new regulation. The numbers I was talking about, which you mentioned, are actually the demands of motorists. These are their bargaining grounds, so we can negotiate with them there. So why a longer arm than a year? Of course, we are talking about a maximum of two years. Let's just say if I just write down the rules that need to be changed. This is: Law on Road Transport Transport, Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, Law on Primary School, Law on Scholarship, Law on Higher Education, Law on Local Self-Government. Now the very amount of regulation that will have to be adopted in this amended system is large. The second reason is that the regulation, the regulation is ready, but I must say that we also have professional grounds for a different system, an integrated system in public road passenger transport, which is more suitable than the one for which the regulation is currently prepared. This is how we will take this decision yet, but things are not so far away or we have two possible systems and they are not so far from being brought into the regulation. It's about a one-way ticket. Since the proposed deadline is also one year, I would say that this is a measure that follows as a cap at the end of all other measures and is even more difficult than a one-year period. So we suggest we keep it the way it is. And we don't support the proposed amendments at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and the two amendments tabled in Article 2. I was warned that the first paragraph should be understood as an amendment and a supplement to the first paragraph of Article 2 and, later, to the end of the text, to the second amendment, meaning a new second paragraph after Article 2. Does anyone wish to discuss Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article? I'm asking you to report to the debate. Thank you. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Therefore, by means of this amendment, which we have tabled, in a transitional provision, this period, when the measure is to be in force, is reduced to 3.12.2009. As I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, this is the time when the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on public services for rail and road passenger transport, which this area of public passenger transport, as well as bus services within this, enters into force, governs directly. Thus, after this period, we are actually in the legal system - although I am not a lawyer, but also in the report of the Legal and Legal Service, it was understood that it would probably be necessary to define these matters in more detail after this date. In view of the debate that we have sufficiently explained to the amendment tabled in Article 1, it is said that the time limit should be reduced to one year, then this second amendment makes sense. So, from the answer - although I am somewhat disappointed that the Minister says that in one year it is not possible to make a public call, even though I understood a fellow Member of the Vebra in presenting the position of the Socialist Group of Members, that this deadline can be reduced as it was proposed. So now I don't understand; personally, I think these things could be done within a year. However, once the 3 December 2009 deadline is reached, a new regulation in the field of public rail and road passenger transport will enter into force immediately. Let me do it again. In its initial proposal, the Government also cited, as one of the reasons for describing the exceptional situation, a provision in this Article 5 of the Regulation, which states that exceptional situations may arise. So I want to say that even if we accept this amendment, where the deadline for establishing existing concessions is extended to 3. 12. 2009, after this date, we will not have any legal void because we have here a regulation which, in fact, refers to, in its fifth paragraph of Article 5, for example, the interruption of services or the direct risk of such a situation. So the situation that we are solving today with this amendment to the law and as proposed by the Government at first. Article 1(1) followed by Article 5(5). However, at the notice of the Legislative and Legal Service that this applies only one year later, this was omitted in the amended proposal by these amendments of the Committee, which is in some ways worse because the circumstances are omitted. But this has already been sufficiently explained in the debate on Article 1. For something else, we propose this deadline of up to 3. 12. 2009 We believe and understand the Minister that it would probably be better to draw up a new law that would fully regulate public rail and road passenger services. I think that this regulation is already a part of it, and I am sure that we will get this law in the National Assembly and then, in fact, the road transport law will probably not be necessary in this part. So I suggest we support this amendment, there is no reason not to. 3. 12. 2009 will not happen anything other than that it will enter into force directly, a regulation that also addresses this issue, as we now have here with this novelty. Otherwise, we will have quite two arrangements: one direct regulation by the European Union and then this law will be able to be again in some kind of dilemma. I suggest you just support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, fellow Members! If so, in my view, paragraphs 1 and 2 and the amendments to these two articles are so closely linked. Mr Verlič reiterated the circumstances that led the Government or the Ministry of Transport to propose an amendment to the law by emergency procedure. Why did this happen? It happened for reasons well explained by our fellow Member, former Minister Zerjav. If we had heard that before on the Committee, I think there would have been no such debate on the Committee on Transport yesterday. I respect the reasons why he decided not to put the regulation into government procedure, but also let the Government and the Ministry of Transport understand that it was necessary to react quickly, so the Government also proposed following an urgent procedure to amend and supplement the Road Transport Act to resolve this legal void, which actually arises from 1. 1. 2009 Now, the 2009 deadline or by the end of December 2010 at the latest can be discussed, I agree with that, but in my opinion it is a very difficult task. Some procedures and coordination have already been discussed by our fellow Member, Žerjav, and also by the new Minister of Transport. In my view, much effort will have to be made to reach this Regulation and the regulation will be the basis for a call for tender. Do not speak, we would also like to have enough time and now to publish a public tender and extend concessions on the basis of a public tender. There's no time. In order to regulate public line passenger traffic from 1.1.2009, this should be regulated on the basis of an intervention or emergency law as proposed. Of course, once the regulation is in place, the regulation will then, on the basis of the regulation and once the concepts within the regulation have been cleared in some way, a call will be issued and then we will get new concessionaires, who will also have a duty, a duty and also rights, in what way it implements this concession. What I would like to stress is that in your amendments, I am more concerned with the disagreement of the National Assembly than I am with your amendments, or this is not in this amendment, but in the previous amendment. I think that once we change the law, we will in some way give our consent to the Ministry or the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for State Roads to extend for a maximum of two years without the invitation to tender for this concession contract. Imagine that the legislative body will deal with any agreement for a concession act. I can't understand that. Then why didn't we come to Parliament for agreement in the previous term when we granted a bunch of healthcare concessions? I don't think it's necessary that this is an executive branch of power and that these things are arranged in this way. I am concerned that this would be the responsibility of Parliament. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal of the law, but will not support any amendment, not to Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The list of declared candidates for discussion on Article 2 is exhausted. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I inform you that we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their member states on one side and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the other side of the summary list. I suggest we wait a minute for the government representatives to join us on this agenda item. I'm informed the government's representatives are in the on-call room. This on-call room really isn't far away, but it looks like they didn't hear and didn't come. I suggest we wait another minute and send our representatives to invite them to the meeting. Because if I interrupt this session in five minutes, it'll take more than five minutes to gather. I propose, fellow Members and fellow Members, that we wait five minutes to continue to address this item on the agenda with the report of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Representatives of the Government, however, will be able to join the debate later if they so wish. Mr. Ivo Wiggle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u96	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The agreement before you today is extremely important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as for the region of the Western Balkans as a whole. It is important both from an economic point of view because it will contribute to the economic growth of this country, as well as from a purely political point of view, because its objective is to stabilise the area affected by the war in the past. Its range is therefore broad, as it focuses not only on economic or developmental aspects but also on promoting respect for democratic principles and human rights, ensuring international and regional peace and stability and good neighbourly relations. This was also discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Nevertheless, the Stabilisation Association Agreement is essentially a free trade agreement that will result in a gradual reduction of customs duties within five years, ensuring the free movement of goods between the Member States of the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The removal of barriers will stimulate trade between the EU and this country and contribute to the growth of investments for the reconstruction of economic capacity. The Interim Trade Agreement, which falls within the exclusive competence of the European Communities, entered into force on 1 July 2008. All these are necessary, urgent changes that will be fully implemented by the ratification of this Agreement, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the level of the Council of the European Union and in all Member States of the European Union. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement means continuing the efforts of the international community to make the Western Balkans region an area of peace, stability and prosperity, which requires more than economic cooperation and development. To this end, the Agreement contains provisions on political dialogue between the members of the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina, aimed in particular at convergence of views on international issues and issues of security and stability. The political dialogue will take place at the level of the Stabilisation and Association Council and at the level of Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the European Parliament, including within the Stabilisation and Association Parliamentary Committee. The Agreement contains provisions on regional cooperation, the essential part of which is the commitment to respect bilateral agreements and develop good neighbourly relations, i.e. the commitments made today in international relations, especially in the region of South-Eastern Europe, of particular importance. This is therefore a comprehensive and politically important agreement, which is fully aligned with Slovenia's foreign policy priorities. In fact, Slovenia has in the past sought to accelerate the conclusion of this Agreement, which was signed at the time of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, on 16 June 2008. On the Foreign Policy Committee, he received a proposal for a bill of unanimity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister Samuel Žbogar apologizes for the delay and begs for his word. Mr Samuel Zbogar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u98	Dear Members and Members, Mr Vice President! First of all, I apologize for the delay. Somehow we thought we'd be in line a little later, and I had some other meetings at the Ministry. I sincerely apologize for that. During the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Slovenia was one of the most decisive advocates of the integration of the Western Balkan countries into the European Union. We have strongly advocated the view that individual treatment of each country should be ensured when meeting the criteria laid down. The informal meeting of foreign ministers in Brdo this March and the conclusions of the European Council at the end of our Presidency confirmed that enlargement to the Western Balkans remains one of the key priorities of the European Union. We also outlined the visa liberalisation path for the Western Balkan countries during the presidency. We will insist on this support, and we are aware of the crucial importance of this step. Today you have before you the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents a very important achievement and achievement of the objectives set by both Bosnia and Herzegovina and one of the objectives of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is the basis of the necessary common vision of the Bosnian-Herzegovina future, based on a clear and practical definition of the reforms needed for membership. With it, Bosnia and Herzegovina will further strengthen the market economy and regional cooperation. The implementation of the agreement is the way to a multi-ethnic and successful Bosnia and Herzegovina, which as a single country is anti-EU membership. Slovenia welcomes the reinforced engagement and commitments of the European Union. We are aware that the presence of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina is still necessary, but it must lead to enhanced responsibility for Bosnia and Herzegovina itself. The honourable Members and Members, the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina shall link specific historical links. We have excellent cooperation in both political and economic fields as well as in many other areas. Our countries have similar views on the development of bilateral relations and on a number of broader international issues. We encouraged and supported Bosnia and Herzegovina's efforts to implement the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. On its way to the European Union, Slovenia stands firm with Bosnia and Herzegovina as a partner and ally. We are pleased to be among the first countries to ratify this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are now moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. We have before us a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The agreement was signed by the European Union in June this year, during the Slovenian Presidency. However, it was also endorsed by Members of the European Parliament in October by the House of Consensus. The 2003 Thessaloniki Agreement defines the integration and integration of countries in the area of the so-called Western Balkans into the European Union. The agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina has a particular weight and value, and therefore, for several reasons, it certainly deserves the full attention of the citizens of Slovenia and thus this high assembly. It is a country which has certainly been the most committed by the former SFRJ in the area of some republics in the war. It is also a country where reconstruction in war-torn countries and social communities is taking place very slowly, certainly also because of its structure, which in fact represents specialities within the meaning of the state system. The country consists of the entities of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosniak and Croatian Communities, which is divided into cantons. During the war, a military conflict took place among all three nations, leaving indelible consequences. To the greatest extent, these are now hampering the formation of state institutions, political development and the structured relations between these nations. To a large extent, they also hamper economic recovery and development. Simply put, they impede the normal functioning of the country and thus bring it closer to the European Union. Many questions remain: the reform and functioning of the state administration, the constitutional structure or inadequacy of the functioning of key state institutions, such as the police, the return of refugees, as according to official data there are still 150,000 refugees who have not returned to their homes. In reality, though, this information is probably higher. Many who return because of unemployment or still irregular international relations simply sell their assets and move back. This is also a matter of economic and infrastructure underdevelopment and a high level of unemployment. In the country there are 360,000 unemployed, 310,000 pensioners, over 200,000 people with martial law and an additional 460,000 people are dependent on social assistance. The budget for this year allocates 62% of the budget to social transfers. National institutions are ineffective and contacts between local communities of the three nations are very poor; contacts between the Republic of Serbia and the Federation are minimal. That is why the European Parliament, in its debate on this agreement, drew attention to the urgency of Bosnia and Herzegovina acting as a single country and not as a constituent of two or even three entities. At the beginning of this month, the Council of Foreign Investors in Bosnia and Herzegovina issued a White Paper highlighting legal and bureaucratic problems that hinder faster, more efficient investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a condition for successful reconstruction, development and approximation of membership in the European Union. Slovenia, as a Member State of the European Union, as part of the wider region, as well as as as a country that has a significant link with both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region for various reasons. According to official data for the first half of 2008, Slovenia takes second place with €69 million among foreign investors. However, despite the increase in Bosnia and Herzegovina's exports to Slovenia, there is still a large deficit on Bosnia and Herzegovina's side. This exchange amounted to EUR 958 million in 2007. In addition to helping to build state institutions and social network institutions, the real area of economic cooperation can be the biggest aid for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Slovenia. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is a reliable document that promotes and directs Bosnia and Herzegovina towards economic, political, social and most likely constitutional renewals, and thus brings it closer to European standards as to membership in the European Union itself, to which the Members have committed themselves by adopting the Thessaloniki Declaration and have made a clear and unequivocal commitment several times thereafter. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the agreement, because of the above, certainly deserves support and needs to be confirmed. This is also what we intend to do when we vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina, with high expectations for improving the situation in this part of Europe. We estimate that since the start of the negotiations in 2005, Bosnia and Herzegovina has made great progress, in particular in the area of cooperation with the Hague tribunal, and with some reforms has shown sufficient readiness for the next step of integration into the European Union. The accession process ensures the achievement of certain objectives in this troubled area. This is the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, the political and economic stability of the country and the region, the appropriate framework for political dialogue, the transition to a market economy, the introduction of free trade between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Community and the promotion of regional cooperation. The agreement is in line with our support for the integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union, which is why we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. [[He's not here.]] Then I give the floor to Mr Victory Jelinčič, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u104	Good day to you all! I must say that the words of my speaker have moved me, and I would expect to have as much information and ideas about the solution to the problem as he has about Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we are not yet living in the former Yugoslavia or in the former Yugoslavia. Mr Minister spoke about excellent cooperation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia. And yet we have an ambassador who's been kicked out because we're bumping in here and there and so forth, and we don't even know who's gone anywhere. However, we have huge demands from the savers of the Ljubljana Bank, who have demanded a ban on imports of Slovenian products that have blocked many of the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina and have not allowed Slovenian products to come to their market. However, in Slovenia we have some association and association of anti-Slovenian elements that threaten to interfere with extraordinary measures if Slovenia, as foreigners from Bosnia and Herzegovina, does not give them this, the third and the tenth. Well, let's just leave it. The fact is that the Western Balkans must enter the European Union, but the Western Balkans should enter the European Union in one piece, together Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Croatia, all together in one piece if we are to settle matters peacefully. If we are going to push Croatia forward now and then Bosnia, be sure that Croatia will never give any one except them a chance to join the European Union. You need to know a little history and you know you do. On the other hand, it was said how well we did during our Presidency of the European Union and how well we cared for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have always expected that we will take care of the Republic of Slovenia and that at that time we will do something for our country, and we will lose our chance. The fact that we have lost the opportunity to do nothing shows Croatian relations with our country and everything. If you are reading Croatian newspapers; so horrible spitting in Slovenia and so terrible encouragement to the Slovenians we have not read since 1939, when that Nazi pogrom started in Europe when the Nazis started writing in this way. Maybe they're even translating those old texts they wrote in those newspapers. There is talk of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a single country. I don't know if this is gonna be the country. The Republic of Serbia has every right to declare independence. They have a case with neighbors in Kosovo. If permitted by them, the Republic of Serbia is also allowed - why not? Or we have double criteria in Europe, as Europeans have double criteria for Slovenia. When the question of Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania or not, Poland, they help them, even though it is only potatoes or the like, they help them with all their strength. When it comes to the issue of Slovenia, when it comes to the existential issue of our borders, then Europe cheers up and says, this is your private matter, you handle it yourself. This shows the subordination of the European Union, which is also reflected in this agreement. Indeed, we will support the agreement, for the same reason that I said that the countries of the Western Balkans must take note together in one piece into the European Union and that something must be done in this area, perhaps also what Article 3 says, when it comes to supporting the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, because, if nothing else, there are some tens of thousands of anti-tank mines in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, of course, will be able to travel peacefully to the European States at the time of their entry into the European Union. After all, the Federation of Bosnia and Croatia has a specific status and more than half of the Bosnians also have Croatian passports, which means they will be able to do as they please. I'm not saying they could, but they might. In short, this agreement is another bluff of the European Union, another bluff to those who are for order and discipline, but that is just the way it is, we will support this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u106	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and its members and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was signed in Luxembourg on 16 June 2008 for a number of reasons, and for three reasons in particular. Ratification of the agreement will encourage Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path and confirm that Slovenia supports it in this regard. The Agreement commits to closer cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, including in the area of justice, freedom and security. We are convinced that such processes lead to greater stability and lasting peace in the region. The early ratification of this Agreement will increase and facilitate, inter alia, trade with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus, in particular, help Slovenian industry and agriculture to facilitate market access in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is known that trade with Bosnia and Herzegovina has stagnate in recent years since the end of the bilateral agreement in 2004. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement brings, among other things, trade facilitation policies in trade in industrial and agricultural products and obliges Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring their legislation closer to European legislation. On the other hand, it commits the European Union to a dialogue with Bosnia and Herzegovina on closer regional cooperation, including provisions on the introduction of free trade after five years of signing this Agreement. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that Slovenia must make better use of the situation in the region in the field of foreign policy and promote its economic cooperation and political influence. Finally, the reason for the early ratification is also the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has made significant efforts to sign this Agreement during the Presidency of the European Union, which finally took place in June 2008. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law on ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since we have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timetable in the vote today, in half an hour. That's 5:20. So I interrupt this item on the agenda and the meeting and continue with the meeting at 5.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u108	We're continuing our adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue to end the 2nd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, that is, by deciding on the amendment tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SLS and SNS Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I see they're picking up. Mrs. Andreja Richter, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group? [[No, no, ……]] Ivo Weighle? [[No, no, ……]] Silva Nigga? [[No, no, ……]] Damian Perne? [[No, no, ……]] Alexander Zorn - on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We've proposed a good amendment. He is kind to museums and kind to the congregation. We have heard quite a few members of the coalition who have praised him, but have announced that they will vote against him. What does that mean? It would allow the Ministry to accept more easily and without concern those museums that would meet the criteria for mandated museums. You're not exactly going to get together with the museum public if you refuse. They would allow the municipalities to have a perspective of making their museums easier to finance with the state. You're not exactly going to get together with the municipal public if you vote against it. After all, no one believes that there has been no reduction in budgetary resources for this purpose. You're not exactly going to get together with the general cultural public because you've cut down on cultural resources. I therefore propose that you all vote together for this amendment, because it costs you nothing after all. As we understand it, you're going to change the law altogether. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group - Joko Godec? [[No, no, ……]] Luka Yuri? [[Not at all.]] Mrs Majda Potter on behalf of the SD Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats of the proposed amendment will not support it, not because it would support the amendment or not, but simply because we wanted to explain in the entire event that we were dealing with a situation that did not lead to the legal provisions that would have been adopted at the time and at the request of the current coalition. What has to be rectified in the light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service has been corrected by the amendment of the coalition groups of Members and is now adequately resolved in the complementary proposal. However, we do not believe that the proposed amendment, which has been announced as an amendment that brings significantly more clarity and certainty, solves this particular problem because it speaks of two calls and we do not know what the call for proposals are. This is just a certain attempt to influence a decision that would have resulted if it had been so decided by this amendment, the internal non-compliance of the law. We have pointed out that if this amendment were to be adopted, some other articles of the law should also be amended, which cannot be amended in view of the fact that this is a matter of short notice. So we appeal to all who want to make it 1. 1. 2009 funding and the existence of cultural institutions, museums and galleries normally to not support this amendment, but to fully support the law, as proposed in the amended bill for the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Does any of the Members want to explain their voice? I'm opening the application. The word has been given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, I don't care who's going to get together, who's not going to get together. This is his private matter, which is sometimes understood very differently from normal people - but fine. The fact is that the "command" is such: it is necessary to vote in favour of the basic amendment and to undermine the whole world. It doesn't matter if someone made that amendment that didn't change it, but it only improved, so it's more transparent, it's more exact, so it's more accurate - it doesn't matter, because it came from the wrong direction and if it comes from the wrong side of "appe stanas" - away, let's push it away and end it. That's why I don't know. I thought there'd be a little bit more understanding of the substance alone. For I would expect that because of the clarity of the amendment we tabled, we would vote for it for clarity. But clarity doesn't play a role here. The role is played by who wrote it and, as written, must be accepted. Just like in Article 2, when it comes to one mistake in words when it is written in another slope, but it doesn't matter. I mean, the favors in Slovenian don't play a role, which I'd doubt if we took the president's birthday party. But that's what's going on. I don't know. After all, I think it makes sense for the amendment to be supported. I'm saying this more for the record, because I'm sure the amendment won't be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u115	Thank you, President. So, I expected the opposition to prepare its game. It is a very cheap demagogy, for it has been made clear that this amendment, which is substantively sounding very nice and seems to be the fact that someone wants to save the network of museums and other cultural institutions with one amendment, is in a law that does not affect the content of the current law, and that law is yours, gentlemen of the opposition. You wrote it like that, and now you want to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u116	Comrade Yuri, this is not the time. This is not the time to argue with the opposition or anyone. [[...]] Now we need to explain our voice. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u117	Excuse me, Mr. President. I'll follow that advice. So I will vote against it, and I hope that everyone will still vote in favour of the law that saves the salaries of all employees in these cultural institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, I would really like to warn all those present who will apply, but they have to explain to the vote that they should first and foremost explain their voice and the reasons why they will vote as they think to vote. This is no longer the time for controversy, and I'm going to cut it pretty rigorously on all sides. I give my word to Mr. Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary. I myself will support the amendment for the reasons he mentioned in his debate, fellow Member Borut Saiovic, who says that the amendment was actually good, but he will not vote in favour of it on some other matters. However, this amendment states that the powers to carry out the public service shall be conferred on those museums which comply with the legal requirements laid down in Article 94 of this Act. Yes, for God's sake, what's wrong with being empowered by those who meet the requirements of Article 94? In the article itself, the amendment of the law on the protection of cultural heritage reads: "On the basis of the invitation to tender he chooses the most appropriate..." Who's the one to choose? So, who has this discretionary right? That's not good. And even if it doesn't, Minister, yes, but it will feel like you can share and choose between "your" and "our" and "right" and "unjust" and so on. Even more so, those from the outskirts, from the countryside, will feel that they are now starting to pay. Mr. Jankovic, the first bill has already been paid. And that's why it's not good. It would therefore be good, in line with Mr Pahor's announcements by the Prime Minister of the Government, when he said that the opposition's good proposals would also be taken into account to comply with and to vote on these amendments. However, the law stipulated that we would have provinces, and unfortunately we lost them this year 1.2, because of those in the coalition today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I'm reopening applications for explanations of vote. Please, everyone who wants to explain your voice, do this now, because I do not intend to open this debate any longer, I repeat, I only open it once more, and I will not open up any further explanations of vote. You all have a chance now. I'm sorry. I made a mistake. I'm going to reopen the application for debate. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the proposed amendment. I would like to point out that the amendment does not improve the text of the proposed law when it comes to clarity. The amendment says, "The Ministry between the museums that apply for the invitation to tender," here comes for the first time and then again, "to carry out the ministry on the basis of the invitation to tender a choice". Which, first, second, one, one, you don't know. This is therefore the basic reason why the language image of this amendment clears up. Secondly, the internal non-conformity of the law which would have arisen if the amendment had been adopted because it intervened and was linked to the provisions in other articles of the law. So it is impossible to support a solution that is a bad solution. However, I was not led by any suggestion as to who the proposer was, but let him explain only what was happening on the committee when the amendment proposed by the opposition was adopted to Article 2 of the Convention. And then the opposition is responsible for the language image. And the chairman of the committee isn't a teaching service. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support this amendment, as I have already stated my reasons in the debate. For with this amendment the state truly provides all museums that meet those criteria. Therefore, I also expect Members and Members of Parliament, particularly the mayors, to support the amendments, who know the difficulties they are facing. The difference is that one of the discussers mentioned earlier that this law saves wages to museums, some museums. That's right. Only to some, and to those who will not know in what way will receive some privileges that will be chosen by the Ministry or the Minister. I think that such a solution is unfair, unfair and therefore, once again, I expect this amendment to be supported by all Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, I will also support this amendment because it significantly improves the content because it improves the text and because it preserves the written criteria, the envisaged criteria as part of the decision-making process. If this amendment is not adopted, then it means that the criteria will be just like that, and someone else will decide: either the minister, the minister or someone in the cabinet. That the amendment was a good one was also confirmed by some members of the coalition who said they would not support it. This means that obviously the amendment does not enjoy the trust or support of the coalition, regardless of how good it is. And that is what we are warning about what will happen to museums - they will not enjoy the support of the coalition, even though they will do well. And that's exactly what we're reminding us of, and that's what this amendment is saving to get rid of, and that the criteria would become the decisive purpose of the decision-making process. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment was not accepted. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? Yes, you do. The word has magic. Mr Andreja Richter on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. All those who vote in favour of this law will gain one year of time to support the safe and stable financing of museums that today cover the entire network of Slovenia and thus the public service. This will also buy us time to identify and decide, with the professional public and with us from and from local communities, the further stable financing of these museums, financed today by the State or the Ministry of Culture and by all others who meet the conditions already provided by the law. That is why we also support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word is "Cveta Zalokar Orazem." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the amendment of the law. We believe that this is the only rational decision we need to make at the same time. At the same time, we will also have time for more global changes to take place in this area, which today has also been extensively discussed, but the fact is that if we do not take action and at this point we are running into the water, the consequences will be very difficult. And I expect and hope that today the reason will prevail, and we will support this law by all Members and Members, because those who want to oppose, criticize or question the changes of this law are not aware of the severe consequences. Finally, in connection with this law, there is also an assessment at the Constitutional Court, initiated by some municipalities. It is a very simple maneuver, it is a matter of wanting to turn away, perhaps even the attention of finding out who did it, who may be partly or entirely guilty of what is happening, and why we must accept these changes in the law today. And even so, knowing the criticism and search for solutions that would be better, with certain amendments, does not take away the guilt that someone may be carrying, which is still sitting in this room today, for a situation in which some public institutions could find themselves without amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Would you like Members and Members to explain their vote? Yes, they do. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u131	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. This law that we will vote on is the first law for which I will have the opportunity to vote as alternate Member. In the National Assembly, I am replacing Minister Majdo Shirco Ravnikar, and I must say that it is an honour for me to be able to replace her and that I am pleased that she has dealt with matters so quickly in her field. I believe it will also be effective. Of course, I will be very happy to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much. So we're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. 55 votes against nothing. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break three. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in Road Transport, urgent procedure. We'll proceed with the second reading. This is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We have before us an amendment to Article 1 first, and I ask whether you want an explanation on behalf of the sent groups? Yes, you do. I'm opening a list of explanations. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before you press the key for or against the amendment, allow me to warn you again and at the same time explain why we will support this amendment in the sent group. The amendment refers to the need to extend the conditions when the concession is awarded or where the public concession for the economic public service of liner transport in public passenger transport is extended without a call for tender when the circumstances that have led to this occur, and this is an exceptional circumstance that it is true that this happens not in two years as a proposal, but that this time is reduced to the least possible. And I think that one year is the reasonable time for existing carriers or any carrier to have extended concessions without a call for tender. And another good proposal has been put in place here - that we can actually be informed in the National Assembly why this has occurred. In fact, the articles of the law do not explain the reasons for the exceptional situation. That is why it is right for this to happen with the consent of the National Assembly. In fact, we have two built-in security guards, which are good and reduce manoeuvres for bus carriers, who will now be able to extend concessions here in the National Assembly, at the time of the adoption of such a law, unless we ask a particular question, we will not know anything about it. And yet, this situation can be constantly prolonged. I therefore propose that we all think together and support the good proposal of the amendment, including for the benefit of public line passenger transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Would you like Members and Members to explain their vote in this amendment? Yes, you do. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President of the National Assembly! I will support this amendment myself for one more reason. I do not think it is good that concessions and contracts to the carrier are extended without an invitation to tender. It also does not seem good to me that, unfortunately, we have never actually arranged for the transport of children to school in the Road Transport Act. The country's budget for regular line transport spends a lot of money, or I don't have as much data as I do, but in tens of millions. At the same time, these same carriers, who receive concessions and for liner transport of funds, go to the municipalities for the transport of children to school. Indeed, this is nowhere to be arranged and this law will need to be changed more thoroughly and these things will need to be regulated. It is unacceptable that these same carriers that have concessions and receive money will now be extended, even for two years, which is totally unacceptable. For my understanding, a year is too much. From the municipalities "cassified" by km from 9,7, 10,53, 6.28 and so on after one kilometer for the transport carried out. Colleagues and colleagues, this is unsustainable and, of course, in this area, with this amendment, I'm going to say, let's ease the matter a little bit, but we're not solving it by any means.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we do not accept this amendment today, then we will give the Government a green light to work at home. That the government gives a concession to someone for two years without a public invitation to tender is, for the first time - untransparent, illegal and probably a lot of people will also ask who will get this concession. The Law-Legal Service also wonders who will be able to obtain this concession. Whether those who already have concessions or who will be, after today, when this law is passed, have become new carriers. The legal and legal service also wonders who will be allowed to grant this concession at all. It would be perfectly normal if we did not have a legal basis to call for a public invitation to tender, that we would of course find out that we would give the Government the opportunity to sign something in terms of the existing one with those who have so far carried out this activity and that in this interim period, 6 months or one year; we proposed one year in the amendment; and to draw up a legal basis for a public invitation to tender. The invitation to tender is the one who essentially guarantees that something is not done under the table. And, as we say, without this amendment, you will give the green light to the minister to work domestically, in an illegal, untransparent way. And tomorrow we're going to have him here asking him why you gave this car carrier, or you're going to give that concession to that guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We're voting. Mr. Jerovšek. I have previously warned you that I will then open another report for explanations of vote, which I ask you, all those who want to explain the voice to do so now, with this application. [[...]] This will give you the opportunity to do so under the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I will not open another additional application. Thank you very much. Please. Mr. Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u139	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I will define myself to vote for this amendment for this very reason, Members and Members of Parliament, perhaps at the Ministry they think that tomorrow we will be taken by buses to the ministry with a sentence or "anything". Believe me, the kexons will drive us in the morning, and that's why I want the marriage to end in the right way, but not very, very flawed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u140	Mr Joseph Jerovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment and I hope that members of the coalition will also support it. In fact, if you vote against it, you will show very early at the beginning of the mandate that you have started by accelerating corruption. What you have written down in the law is a typical contribution to the promotion of corruption and it is important to ask what moves are in the back. One year is a very long time for these matters to be settled, everything else is inappropriate and I wonder, as my colleague asked before, whether Viator & Vector has already exhibited accounts as a colleague mentioned earlier that Mr. Jankovic has begun to exhibit accounts, it seems that other great supporters of your interpretation have already begun to issue accounts in the first phase. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u142	Mr. Jerovšek, explanation of voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u143	Yeah. Mr President, I think I can explain my vote with arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u144	With arguments please, with arguments!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u145	And I believe that you are in pain with some things, that you can see from the beginning where the focus is, how the first proposals of this government are being put in the direction they are going. And once again, I stress whether you will decide today to promote corruption and make this clear at today's meeting or whether the majority, at least the Members who do not know what it is, what some in the background have decided, will vote in favour of this amendment, which will represent at least some partial transparency in this area and will not go in this wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SLS and SNS to Article 2, to the first amendment. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yes, you do. I'm opening a list for discussion. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I regret that the amendment to Article 1 has not been adopted, but there is another possibility, which is simply written, written and related to the European acquis in this second amendment. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on public services for rail and road passenger transport shall enter into force on 3 December 2009. This means that these solutions, which this amendment of the law, which this amendment and the amendment of the law now introduces, will also be directly applicable. We therefore propose, in a transitional provision, that these concessions be awarded without invitation to tender until 3 December 2009, when the Regulation of the European Parliament with direct effect also applies to Slovenia as a Member State. I suggest you support and support at least this amendment. We'll be in our group. Why? This will eliminate the legal system, I don't know, duplicity. We'll have two arrangements. This amendment to the Road Transport Act, which gives a longer period of time and, of course, a regulation of the European Parliament, which speaks extensively about public services in rail and also road transport. So I propose that, at least from a legal point of view here, we follow little of what the Legislative and Legal Service has said in its opinion and that we support this amendment, so that we have at least a systemic matter cleared up. Too bad the Minister is not, the regulation is actually very good and it would be good to implement it directly with this amendment. I suggest we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Would you like Members and Members to explain their vote? I don't see any interest, so we're just voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 2 of the SDS, SLS and SNS. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? Yes, you do. I'm opening a list for discussion. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u149	Thank you very much. If none of the amendments have been adopted, then I don't think there should be any problem with this last amendment. In this last amendment of the parliamentary group, we propose to include carriers carrying out public passenger line transport in the implementation of the single ticket system by 31 December 2009 at the latest. If we have already allowed them to have an extended concession for two years without a public invitation to tender, yes, and then at least by law, let us give the Minister of Transport this opportunity to the Government to force them to join the single ticket system. I told you before, the cover in the newspaper of Delo already says "progress is not in the negotiations." Yes, of course not, the Minister will come and he will say, join the single ticket system, that will be us in 2016, when we will extend the concession in the National Assembly for the fourth time without a tender. At least with this amendment, let's order them to join the system. The law, the Minister will come and will say, here, the National Assembly has adopted the first concrete measure, it has to be included in the single ticket system, first for bus carriers, and also for rail and other carriers by implementing the 2009 regulation. So I propose that you support this substantive amendment, which has been well-meaningly proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u150	Thank you. Would you like Members and Members to explain their vote? I don't see any interest. That's why we're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present and 33 votes against 43 Members and Members. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] On behalf of Members and Members? I'm opening the list. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, it turns out that party discipline works, not common sense. That's the way it is, it's turned out, and it looks like this is how the entire mandate is going to go. But remember something when you get so deep that you won't be able to get out again and you'll want to resign, and then we won't let you do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Good thing you only explained that voice in your own name. Well, we're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, by the Final Charter. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? I don't see the need. So, you want to explain the voice of the Member and Members? Not at all. We're voting. There are 78 in attendance, 78 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm moving to five. I would also like to draw attention to the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure and the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Opportunities. You already have the materials on the bench. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the 10 proposals of the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary by means of proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly ten proposals for the election to a judicial function at the courts of nine District Courts and one District Court in the District Courts in Ljubljana, Maribor, Kranj and Žalac and the District Court in Novi Gorica. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the parent body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no reported discussions. We are therefore moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nataša Štefanec Pančur to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. The 69 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Nadje Jablanščak Šuler at the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. The 72 present are Members and Members, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Mateja Gabrovšek as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 71 present is a Member and Members, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Karmen Špilak at the district court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. The 73 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 67 votes against 2. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Marte Sušin to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. The 73 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Katja Ficko Dolžan as District Court Judge in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. The 74 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Nadje Podobnik Cloud, to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 2. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial office of Mrs Barbara Brumen at the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 3. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Burger to the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nežke Klemenšek Grill to the District Court in Žalec. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the decisions on the appointment of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u153	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting. The mandate of the State Election Commission has expired and new members need to be appointed. The Commission consists of three segments, the proposals proposed by the three branches, namely the Judicial Council, the professional public or the Slovenian University and the parliamentary groups. Now, as regards the proposal of the Council of Justice in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have no problems, the proposal is good and we support it in this work. The bigger problems are in the part where candidates were gathered from a set of university proposals. There we selected two members and two deputies from this part, and we can see that the selection did not take place according to the professional criteria, as was often presented to the public in many cases, but in one part experts were selected, it is said, doctors of legal science, one candidate was not a doctor of legal science, whereas three other doctors of legal science were not supported by the coalition. All I can find is that candidate Astrid Prašnikar is an extremely political candidate, former Secretary of State to Minister Bohinc, so to speak, his right hand. And also the proposal signed by Dr Bohinc on behalf of the University of the Sea is that he proposed to his employee, it is said, his right hand for a candidate for the State Election Commission. Here we can see that it was an abuse of the university for political purposes, that it was some kind of political nepotism, that it was also a deception to the public, because under this cover of the professional proposal you chose a completely political proposal. With regard to the selection of candidates from the proposal of the parliamentary groups, we can also find that the election did not take place as prescribed in Article 32 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, where it is explicitly stated that three members and three alternates are appointed according to the proposals of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the relative representation of political parties. Under this criterion, our parliamentary group should receive two members from this quota, which says, one-third, we got one. And that's one of the problems. On the other hand, in this proposal, the coalition has not been able to support the most appropriate or professionally competent candidate, says the Doctor of Legal Sciences, as we have suggested, but has fallen for some other candidates who are less skilled and have a different education. In short, according to the test of the election result, the coalition has deprived our parliamentary group of one member or alternate member of the National Election Commission. Here I can only find that the largest group of Members has also chosen only one member from the quota of the sent groups. However, it must be borne in mind that she has chosen another member from the proposal of the professional public, Astrid Prašnikar, who, as I have said, has been the right-hand man for many years to former Minister Bohinc, first at the Ministry of the Interior, and now at the University of Cyprus. Somehow I'd like to suggest to you and give some guidance to the coalition that I don't think it's the time for that kind of work. That it is time for us to take human resources matters seriously and transparently, and that you do not use as cheap tricks as you did in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the National Election Commission is as it should be. The procedure was also such, clear, transparent and transparent. Of course we decided on the candidates on the Mandate-Election Commission. There's nothing to report to candidates from the Council of Justice. Apparently, they have already done their job successfully in the previous term and have been given a renewed mandate. All four Slovenian universities also proposed candidates. Those who have received a higher number of votes are selected. However, for some it was not understandable that the proposals proposed by the political parties were complicated. I agree that this is referred to in Article 32, which states as a criterion and as a measure of proportionality. All those who open appropriate dictionaries will see, by the word of proportionality, equality, equity, proportionality and consistency. That's what this is about. If the legislator wanted to do so, then he would write down that, of course, cities belonging to political parties are distributed to the State Election Commission in accordance with the electoral result. However, he did not write this down, and I think that he is one of the basic democratic standards, that, of course, there are as many parties represented as possible in this State Election Commission sitting in Parliament. To all those who do not believe this interpretation, let them consider, for example, those who have advocated the majority electoral system, how the State Election Commission would then be composed in the event of a majority electoral system. So the winners would also rule the National Election Commission, which is certainly not the point. I think that with this composition supported by the LDS, it is sufficient that the majority of parliamentary parties are equally represented. Above all, the Commission is working by law and impartially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the State Election Commission. If it has already been said on the working body and the story is also repeated in this Chamber that Mrs Prašnikar was the right-hand man of Minister Bohinec, we can find that Gregor Virant was also the left-hand man of Minister Bohinc. Both were chosen by the Minister and decided to do so because of their expertise, not because of their political affiliation. And let me also make sure here, even though this is nothing bad, it is repeatedly mentioned that the political party's membership does not mean that someone cannot carry out tasks that are not defined by another law as incompatible, but that there is something else. However, let me say that Astrid Prašnikar is not a member of the Social Democrats, but at the same time we have not checked the membership of all the other proposed candidates on this list, which we will have the opportunity to confirm today. Let me put it this way: proportionality. There is no need for proportionality in relation to the electoral result, but in view of the representation of political parties in Parliament. And if we followed the Slovenian Democratic Party's wish or proposal on the Mandate-Election Commission, the Social Democrats would have two members or a member and a deputy, the Slovenian Democratic Two and two other seats would remain for the other five parties. We have opted for a different approach, and we have not proposed two candidates ourselves, even though it would have belonged to us after the election result. We have decided that in the National Election Commission, which is mainly an expert in its work, there are representatives of various political groups, as much as possible. There are seven of us in this House, unfortunately there are only six cities and six parties are now being proposed, or the parliamentary groups have proposed candidates for this list and six are now being proposed. So we have decided on this approach and this understanding of proportionality. We will support the proposal in the parliamentary group because we think it is good and that we have actually taken a step in the right direction as a parliamentary group. So we have made it possible to represent almost all parliamentary groups or parliamentary parties to this reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. To answer first to the leader of the largest parliamentary group, who said not to use such cheap tricks in the future coalition. Let me say that this guidance, which we have also heard today and the proposal that we heard on the Mandate-Election Commission, was indeed a cheap trick, which, of course, we did not fall for in the coalition. As has already been said on the Mandate-Election Commission, elections are not and do not mean the political prey of the winners, whether it be a political party or later a coalition, which after elections simply divides all functions and positions that enable and ensure the effective management of the country, the exercise of power and the demonstration of the muscles of political power. And the National Election Commission is part of the difficult and sensitive governance of the country, as it oversees the work, preparation and execution of elections and it is right and wise, therefore, that that part of the National Election Commission proposed by the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, Parliament, reflects the highest possible degree of plurality of political parties in the National Assembly. And if there is a will for this, of course, and perhaps sometimes there will be an interest in any representative of a political party outside the National Assembly. Therefore, the Commission represents as many representatives of the various political parties as possible and today's proposal reflects this very objective. For six cities, six parliamentary groups were set up and the Mandate-Election Commission listened to them in their selection. The National Election Commission, the Election Commission is not the National Assembly, and it is not the Parliament in which, as we have done in the National Assembly, we would exactly divide all the functions and seats in the committees and commissions according to the electoral result. The weighters really had a lot of work to do here. As I said before, the National Election Commission is an important institution for the preparation, execution and control of elections. And there's something else about expertise. If the largest Zares Group is a "biking" to a great deal of expertise, then I would suggest a member from its quota, not a political party secretary who is far from equivalent to the other candidate they have proposed as a deputy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much. As many accusations have been made by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, let me say that I am firmly convinced that we have complied with the law, that we have acted in a clear manner, Mr Tanko, there has been no disguise and lack of transparency, and that we have taken into account the practice that the Mandate-Election Commission has so far had in all its mandates. In view of the fact that we want as many parties as possible to participate in the National Elections Commission, we have also ensured this this time. After our decision, there are six parties that we participate in, unfortunately there could be no more, according to your opinion, there would be only four. The presence of an individual party, other than experts and judges, is useful for ensuring that the representatives of the parties directly see how the work of the State Election Commission is carried out and cannot have the wrong impression, the wrong images, and the participation in the decision-making process. If there was any desire in the law to share mathematically and take into account the number of Members and Members of the National Assembly, then this should probably be written in the law. See, we have in the Rules of Procedure, which has already been pointed out by colleague Dušan Kumer, where he says, "When determining working bodies, the size is taken into account [[Number of members of each parliamentary group]] ".. Article 32 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, which observes the principles, does not speak at all about parliamentary groups, but talks about parties, parliamentary groups are only those who propose individual candidates, and not about numbers, but about proportionality. That's why I don't think there's been any irregularities. It is true, however, that the choice is not as Mr Tanko and the Slovenian Democratic Party had imagined. This is a reality that will have to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Well, as for the part in which the parliamentary groups are proposing, I think it is quite well written, the proportional representation of political parties. This is understood as it was designed in the workplaces where customers have different sizes and also have different weights in the design of working bodies. This text, however, is difficult to understand differently. And we are confident that the coalition has decided just as it has decided, and has deprived us of one seat in the National Election Commission. In our opinion, the city belongs to us. You've assigned us a member, not a deputy member. We had an outstanding staff proposal for a deputy member, unfortunately, the coalition did not attract this and there was clearly a political decision, not a professional one. Even when we selected a member of the professional public, who was created by four Slovenian universities, unfortunately there was the same decision. The three members who were elected, two members and one deputy, were chosen according to the criteria of expertise, and I believe that the doctors of legal science are an expert public. Three doctors of legal sciences were not selected, but the chosen candidate, who is less qualified, was chosen according to the names by which they are evaluated. I hope the Doctorate of Legal Sciences is more than a degree in law school. That this criterion of the professional public is, in principle, already degraded because of this, because you have chosen someone who is technically less qualified. And one more thing, I think it's very sensible to point out here, but this is that the University of Maribor, as one of the four Slovenian universities, has also given two candidates for the National Election Commission, both doctors of legal science and none of these two proposals have been chosen and not suitable for the National Election Commission. I don't understand why it's the University of Maribor. A proposal from the University of Gorica was chosen, a proposal from the University of Primorska was selected, a proposal or two proposals from the University of Ljubljana and no one from the University of Maribor was selected. In what did this university design professionally worse proposals than other Slovenian universities?Oh, my God! Like the University of Primorska, which received a diplomat from the State Election Commission, while Maribor could not succeed with two candidates who were both doctors of legal science. I think the words are one. It is true to talk about expertise - well, it sounds good to give priority to professional decisions. Yes, very nice, but when we come to practice when we come to concrete decisions, decisions are different. And it's hard to convince me that a law degree is more appropriate, more professional and more qualified than a doctor of legal science. It's just hard to explain. I can certainly see that by recruiting or deciding on the Mandate-Election Commission you have achieved that the Social Democrats have two members on this State Election Commission. One in the selection of the professional public, the other in the quota of the sent-off groups. And I think that this way of working and deciding in the National Assembly, when there is a lack of transparency, is not at the level of the size of the parliamentary group and the criteria that you publicly advocate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I said it myself in the introduction, but it looks like Mr. Tanko didn't hear me or he won't understand me. But I don't know that sign language to show if anyone doesn't listen to me. About the University of Maribor. There were more candidates than there were cities. Unfortunately, then they can't all be named and can't be on the list. It is similar when nominating parliamentary groups. You proposed two of your candidates, and you did not give any of your preferences to both candidates, even though you knew after the debate on the Mandate-Electorial Commission that one would most likely be voted on. At least according to our discussions, this could be seen. Now, given that Dr Yuri Toplak was on the State Election Commission in the previous term, he is proposed by the University of Maribor. Now he was the second to propose. We didn't really make those clear gaps. We have also seen candidates who have successfully carried out this task in the past term, and therefore our support. Once again, I assure you that we have supported them in terms of expertise, those that have been proposed by the professional public. And once again, I stress to you that the Social Democrats do not have two members on this committee and that we have only one member. If the proposal put forward by the largest opposition parliamentary group were taken into account, the Social Democrats would have two candidates with 29 seats in Parliament. The Slovenian Democratic Party with 28 seats two, indeed with nine of one, and if we follow this logic of numbering another DeSUS one with seven Members in Parliament. So, in this case, four parties would have candidates on this list, which we will decide today. Six political parties are represented in the State Election Commission, following the proposal we discussed on the Mandate-Election Commission. Because we have proposed only one candidate for Social Democrats and because the Slovenian Democratic Party has failed with two nominations but only one. All the others split up among the other parties. And this is how we understood this proportionality. As has already been said, there is no record in the law that proportionality is relative to the number of seats sent to the National Assembly. This was taken into account when we determined the management of working bodies and membership in working bodies, where we took into account the power relationship between the coalition and the opposition and, of course, also between the parties in the coalition and among the opposition parties. And even there, there was a party who gave up their place second, but that's her business. We wanted one breadth, and by our vote on the Mandate-Election Commission, we will be able to ensure that this time as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Did you want a replica? [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] Well, I can't give you the replica either because you've spent five minutes to discuss it. [[...]] This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on the Proposal for Decisions appointing the National Election Commission for a period of four years. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening the list. Mr Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u167	Well, hello, all of you. This is the point we are actually discussing, in a way, beyond what should actually be heard when the election commission is appointed. In fact, it is understood that those who would like to have more members of the electoral commission would share the spoils they have seized in the elections. But the Republic Election Commission has been appointed in accordance with the law so that it is even prescribed who may be chairman of the Republic Election Commission. It can't just be anyone. And it would be good to understand this Republican Election Commission as the body that will oversee everything in the field of referendums, local elections, the election of the President of the State, the election of the National Assembly to conduct impartially, independently and beyond what the parties have to say to each other. We are running, we are involved, we are active in the process, but not that we have our own people Yes, it is right that we have our observers, that we have our own people who are monitoring or doing everything properly, in accordance with the legislation and so on. [[...]] However, to strive to have adequate proportional representation in the electoral commission on the basis of the electoral result, I find it excessive. True, legislation will have to be supplemented in this area. I am sure that this arrangement has been well established, and the President of the Electoral Commission must be of the judges and so on. And even further, we should follow that logic. And it is not right to make an impression here, as if someone, one of the parties, had been wronged for not getting enough members on the electoral commission. Is it not sufficient for every party, each sent-out group, to have one representative on the electoral commission? I am convinced that we should even exclude political parties from the basic membership of the Republic Election Commission, from the President to the members and alternates. How the parties will control whether the course of the entire elections and all that this electoral commission covers is something that can be enforced through observers, through various things that we also have arranged on the electoral side or where it is decided. So it must be made clear that this is not about belonging to someone, but about making the whole system transparent, transparent and participatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The word is "Cveta Zalokar Orazem." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the decision to appoint the National Election Commission. We believe that the criteria for members of the National Election Commission are very strict, that they are linked to education, to expertise and references. And according to our assessment of these criteria, all candidates, or all those who are proposed, are absolutely in line. Moreover, it seems to us that the composition of the Commission is correct, even more than correct. And it is right and we strongly support the way in which we did not go to the National Election Commission in a proportionate appointment of political parties. This is not a commission that would have been the prey of some parties, as was said today, "this belongs to us, it was our fault." And I think that the solution that has gone towards a more even representation of the parties is better and more correct. Instead of four parties, as has been said several times today, six parties won their seat on the electoral commission. It also seems to us that the name of Mrs Prašnikar has been exposed today. Inadvertently, because it has been said clearly and loudly several times in the past days that there is no political party member. And we believe that. Some do not believe this, for they think that if anyone has ever worked with anyone who is a member of a party in history, he is already contaminated. And that's what that party is talking about, and it's teaching us all what political recruitment can be.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u170	There is no controversy in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u171	We believe that these findings have not been correct, so we will also support the proposal to appoint this electoral commission with a completely clear conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members also want to explain their voice? I don't see any interest in this, so we're moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 70 in attendance, 51 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much, President. A nice hello again. At the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia's Chamber of Commerce, we attach the proposal that we confirmed on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. In times of tight economic conditions, the proper functioning of the State Audit Commission, and especially the fact that it works in full law, will be very important. The President represents, leads and organises the work of this Commission, takes care of the work of the public and represents the work of the State Audit Commission. But there is obviously another problem here besides the National Audit Commission in Slovenia. It is important to ask what is happening with the Public Procurement Act, that neither the municipal nor state institutions collected for this specialised, reputable institution, to lead the calls for large money, of course, do not lead to the end of these stories. In practice, it is possible to face this, the open side of the State Audit Commission, a number of Slovenian municipalities are in difficulty if the counterparties have a qualified lawyer on their side, then it is possible to challenge and abolish every procedure. In practice, this means that millions and millions of euros of European, cohesion and other funds will remain untapped and untapped. I think this is the second part of the question to be considered in the National Assembly. However, that the State Audit Commission is fully composed that it has a president or a president, we are in charge of this in the parliamentary club, and we are attaching the proposal of the selected candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Once again, hello to everyone. Next, I would like to say that we voted twice on this proposal on the Commission's mandate solely because one of the candidates was unjustifiably excluded and then, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, there was a repetition of the procedure. There has also been a grave procedural error in this substantive work, so I think it is right that the Commission has also repeated this procedure. However, what is more important to us is that this is a candidate who, in the previous term, has already been supported by the President of the State Audit Commission, and with a very large majority, only two MPs were against, four and fifty for, I think that those two were already wrong at the time of the vote, but that candidate, after adopting the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, resigned before the function took place. At that time, one of the leaders of the opposition's parliamentary groups said or congratulated the candidate who resigned the candidate for the "coast". There's a clip on the STA. The law did not change at that time, the candidate re-candidates and was chosen. And now I am asking whether there was a professional decision in the previous term when we chose it, and then apparently for political reasons it has stepped down, because now the same coalition that congratulated her for the "corrigible" has supported her as President of the National Election Commission. Without any significant changes in marriage or marriage, which is why she also gave up. In this case, I think it was a very political action, even then it was the marked political action of the candidate, who had already been elected President of the State Audit Commission, and then for the reasons I said, she also withdrew. I think that the way in which candidates who have stepped out of the previous term of office in this mandate are backing or supporting the President of the State Audit Commission is simply to say how far this involvement in the previous mandate and the politicisation of the institutions in charge of independent audit procedures and also of other procedures has gone. In view of everything I have said, this is obviously a very political approach to this and the decision you have taken is probably based on the reward for having given up and caused some problems in the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! This choice of president or president of the State Audit Commission is a very important matter. I, too, believe in this proposal and in what the coalition supports, there are certain issues. In this report, I find it very strange that it is not mentioned at all that the lady has once run for office was elected President of the State Audit Commission. Of course, this is important. We got this document - I didn't even get a CV because I'm not a member of the Kviaz. And second, as we have heard, it has happened that in fact the procedure has been very disruptively guided, very biased. And I would call on the President of this administrative and cadre commission to conduct the procedure more consistently and more transparently next time in these important matters, otherwise we will be faced with a certain doubt that his commission is working with sufficient transparency. And second of all, what was before. I remember that at the time we voted for the same candidate that is today proposed for president. I didn't know anything about her at the time, but I know we supported her. In my opinion, the candidate should be correct in order to state in particular why the same law now seems appropriate. Certain questions arise here. Did she then find that, at the time, the audit committee would not be able to, say, have enough influence to carry out a policy that might have been conceived by a support lobby that was not fully known at the time and was only recognized at the time of its protest retreat. On the other hand, given the support of the then coalition, it should be almost as contaminated as Mr Šinkovec, for example. And it should happen if I were very consistent with how the municipal committee in Trebnje and strongly protested that such a candidate who is contaminated would even come into the selection and proposal of a party. This has not happened either, and this consistency of one party is due to the Bolshevik work of a party. In fact, it is to me that, today, the lady who has given the state no confidence at a significant time, because I think the audit committee has certainly lost some time at that time, some important decisions. And if, for example, she was then prepared to act transparently and crediblely, she should have accepted it under the same law. What are some of the motives that guide it today? I don't think there's any credibility here. In fact, this is uncreditable or should explain more in public who has spoken to her now, for what purposes, what her goals are, so that we can now see the difference between then and today. Why it couldn't work then, and now all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, the roads are open. And, gentlemen, of course, we are wondering whether the State Audit Commission will do its work transparently. You know you supported an article earlier in a law that promotes corruption. I am not saying, the lady may be perfectly correct and appropriate and some other movements have been. But of course, that protest, that reason since then, I don't believe it, and I want to be transparent about it, and today I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Exaggeration can also have serious consequences. To shake too much salt into the soup and spoil its taste. And colleague Jerovšek typically did so now and also on the Mandate-Electorial Commission some other Members. From this point of view, when we voted twice during the course of the procedure or chose to make some far-reaching political conclusions, I think it is only a little too much. But I have to explain how it happened, not a mistake, but a repetition of the procedure. That is why I am allowing myself first to reject all the evidence, and even today's statement has been made that there has been a major error in the Commission's mandate and in its professional service, even the grave errors that it should have had to have been heard, including sanctions. As on the committee today, your opposition colleagues are taking advantage of this case so that all bile can be poured out of electoral failure on their personnel combination. By the way, we'll take care of those candidates who lost the election, not just those. However, if we are already talking about the Mandate-Election Commission and its powers, then let us make it clear, and you also know this, that this works according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which also applies to the work of all the working bodies in the National Assembly. In this case, the Rules of Procedure in its 283rd Article are perfectly clear when it says which days are off or how to proceed when a post office comes to work on a day off to the premises of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Saturday is not a day off and therefore has nothing to bear for the day after Sunday. The mandate-election committee has taken this into account. In addition to the Rules of Procedure, the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures should, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, take account of the Law on the revision of public procurement procedures and then travel us further to the Law on Justice and so on. But here the thing is a little bit more complicated, it's not as simple as some people interpret it today. And since the selection process has been still in the process until today, there has been no final decision, the final decision will today be in the National Assembly, of course the Commission has had this opportunity to repeat and take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. This candidacy came to the National Assembly, which we first excluded, on November 25th, is the 11th day, and the 8th day was the last day we were supposed to come. Once again, it's not a big mistake, it's that we didn't follow some other laws in order. This means that, secondly, or that revisions and amendments will also be necessary, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for we as the body of the National Assembly have adhered to the rules and laws in force in the National Assembly. And I still believe that we have not made a grave mistake, but because of avoiding all other proceedings before the Administrative Court, we have repeated this vote and taken account of this candidacy. And so do you, honourable Members of the opposition, I think that some of you voted for this candidacy and voted in the same way as in the second vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for decisions appointing Mrs Vesna Sugar as President of the State Audit Commission. It will take place from appointment to 23. 12. 2009 I don't see any explanation for the voice. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr. Boštjan Jazbec as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, dated 31. 12. 2008 We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President by the President of the Commission on Rules of Procedure. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia for consideration. Does anyone want a word about this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President on the appointment of the President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure. We're voting. Peace in the hall. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and on the appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. The proposal was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Does anyone want a word about this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Commission for petitions and human rights and equal opportunities. We're voting. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u181	Vice-President, not President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-16-SDZ5-Izredna-03.ana.u182	I'm sorry. Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Thanks for the heads-up. I'll see if that's what I said. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and thank you and thank you very much.
