ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Please take your seats and calm down! Once again, I ask you to take your seats. We continue the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I begin by continuing this meeting and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Samo Bevk from 19:00 on, Ivan Jelen, Bojan Kontič from 18:00 on, Daniel Krivec, Dr. Marko Pavliha from 18:00 on, Alojz Posedel, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, mag. Franc Žnidaršič and Drago Koren until 3 p.m. We're moving to 2. Agenda item: Addressing the problem of high inflation and preparing anti-inflation measures with a proposal for a conclusion. A group of 38 Members and Members submitted the material for consideration. I give the text to the representatives of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, ministers! Allow me to remind you that we have listened for a long time to the data and figures that have given us a high economic growth and, above all, the government's successful work and their credit for it. At the end of the year, however, the inflationary shift showed that it would also be necessary to pay the price. And we are all paying this price today, from us in Parliament to the last citizen and citizen. And this problem, regardless of the delay, calls for an agreement, for the benefit of all of us. Let me repeat some of the dry data we recorded on January 18th when we requested this meeting. Slovenia entered the European Monetary Union from 1 January 2007. After entry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should continue to implement economic policies aimed at maintaining price stability. However, price growth is much higher than maintaining stability. Compared to December 2006, prices rose by 5.6% and only 2.8% in the same period of the year. The average annual price increase in 2007 was 3.6%, prior to 2.5%. The government predicts an average growth of 3.5% in 2008 and 2.8% in December 2007. Despite all these forecasts, we find that inflation has not fallen and that inflation expectations have not changed either. Look, we have a lot of analyses, lots of reviews and comments available today. But all of us can plunge into a very simple, understandable truth that the situation has deteriorated and there is no indication that we will soon turn to the better. Macro-economists can discuss where the reasons are and who is responsible. Finally, even we can believe that all developments and movements in the external markets are to blame. But the simple truth remains that when you step into the store, you take a wheelchair, at the end of the cash register you see only prices that are significantly higher and a wallet that is getting smaller. Surely you cannot turn this situation back to its former authority, following a consistent pattern. The funding was definitely being regulated and when the first LDS government, in 1992, took control of the steering gear. When you look at the curves you'll see smaller fluctuations, but the line of inflation is definitely in the general slide down. And what applies under this line is that, for sure, there was a policy that did not bring poverty into the country all the time. Nor is it true what is being said that this government had no chance. You had more than one, you rejected it despite the fact that the opinions of experts and the majority of citizens were the opposite.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u3	Mr. Skull, would you excuse me a minute? Mr. Skolč [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u4	You kept putting your head in the sand. Let me remind you of something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u5	Mr. Skull, I'd like a minute. On the balcony we have our dear guest from the Republic of Macedonia, President of the Meeting of Mr Ljubiša Georgievski, who is with the delegation in Slovenia. I hope he feels good in our country and talks will be successful. Excuse me, Mr. Skull. [[..]] [[Applause]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u6	I myself will be able to greet the Macedonians in our Parliament on behalf of the opposition this time [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Welcome. [[...]] I would like to remind Minister Bajuk that he underestimated certain things when he was asked 21.7.2007 if, as the finance minister in the country with the highest inflation in the euro area, he said: "I am concerned about your question. I'm not happy that the inflation of June turned out to be the highest. But in fact, the average Slovenian inflation is the same as Ireland and is 2.7%. Of course that's a problem for us. We have to be careful, and we have to take this very seriously." When asked whether he was considering what anti-inflationary measures on economic policy changes he had, listen, replied: "We are not thinking about economic policy changes because we see no reason for this. We don't have any domestic pressure, at least I can't find it in the statistics. But if anyone finds such a thing, please say it." Let's get used to talking about these things with data. We sent you a lot of information on January 18th, and I hope you'll comment on it. It was no different with the President of the Government when he assessed the big successes, by the way, he said he was aware of the risks of overheating the economy on the basis of high economic growth and different trends such as energy prices and some food products. And when he talked about inflation, he said, "The government will continue to be careful." Otherwise, the recent inflation, according to him, is not dramatic. That's six months ago. What should we think of such an underestimating assessment of this problem? When it begins later, I will say that a major discussion between people whether the living situation has deteriorated or not, I would also like to remind you of the statements made by the First Minister, Mr Janša during the meeting of the Government with the Korean politicians and economists. At that time, he said that life would not be radically stimulated, quote: "If this affects the annual level in some situations for a few packs of cigarettes, then it is not so drastic. And if all the dumpsters in the city are looking at bread crumbs, it doesn't mean it's very alarming." This was the perception of this problem by key ministers. I won't remind you of Mr. Visian's advice and so on. Look, inflation is a phenomenon that certainly exhausts all layers of the population. It is therefore incomprehensible that the debate on it should be postponed for so long. Every day we lose it lowers the standard. Some, too, are subject to the divisive effect of inflation by approaching critical borders, and as vulnerable a population as possible. The resolution of social issues is certainly not only in spectacular negotiations with trade unions. Much more important is the thorough work in guiding and curbing financial policy. We're meeting today at a forced session, I'm sorry. Many colleagues from other groups have requested this meeting before. But we are gathered to give the government a chance to jointly consider certain measures, to work together for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the motioners, I invite Mr Mag. Milan M. Squeakles.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u8	Inflation is the fundamental economic political problem of Slovenia. The government won't hear that warning. Social Democrats, other opposition parties, the Bank of Slovenia, unions, have been pointing out this for more than a year. Banka Slovenije, Mr Mitja Gaspari drew attention to this by the Prime Minister of the Government during the discussion on whether he would receive support for a new mandate. The Analytical Research Centre was warned, a policy on the government's water by 2007, if it continues, will lead to serious problems. He wasn't named again. Mr Rant was also not appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Because you were telling the truth. Today, it would be right for the Bank of Slovenia to speak. You didn't invite her, so we're gonna use some of their slides. The fundamental problem with Slovenia is that the model of development has changed. If we grew by export in foreign markets until 2004, we have a so-called negative investment gap since 2004. Or else: we spend more than we create. And that's not enough. In 2007, the current balance of payments account deficit will be almost 5% of GDP. And if you're growing 6%, but you've borrowed 5%, there's a very small increase in over-indebtedness. And this is a changed model of development. This is why Slovenia, which met the Maastricht conditions until last year, no longer fulfils this. If the Council of Ministers were to decide these days whether Slovenia should take over the euro, I would say no. We have a difference between domestic inflation and inflation in the euro area. And this inflation, this difference, which fell to a figure in 2004, that we could fix a tolar against the euro, is now increasing. This means, of course, that the competitiveness of the economy in foreign markets is decreasing and exports will be decreasing and debt will increase. This is a problem that we need to talk about today. In the conclusions of the coalition and in the debates, we have a lot of debate about the fact that this is due to food prices, because of so-called monopolies, because the President of the Government sold Mercator to suppliers. However, if we eliminate prices of food, alcohol, energy, so if we eliminate external effects, we still have the same picture. The difference between Slovenia and the euro area decreased significantly in 2004 and is increasing significantly in 2007. This difference is even greater in January 2008. So, it's not just food, it's not just if you want to, in more expensive gas, the problem is in an inefficient, non-exchange sector in inefficiencies and that Minister Vizjak doesn't know exactly what to do with it. The facts in development are as follows. If we had a surplus of the balance of payments by 2005 each year, the blanket with which we covered ourselves was longer. In 2007, this blanket is too short for 1,500 million euros, for 15,000 dwellings. This was the situation in the former country of 1977, 1978, such a situation in Mexico in 1993, this is the story of Latin America. The economic growth until 2005, which was 4.2, was sustainable in the long term, because we had a surplus in the balance of payments, and so there was also a stop to price growth, so we took over the euro. When you decide not to save money at home anymore, but you owe yourself abroad and you have a hole in your current balance of payments account, the result is double. First, there is a slight acceleration in economic growth from 4.2 to 5.8, but you are rising aggregate demand and rising prices to 6.4%. How is that financed? Out of debt abroad. In 2004, the gross debt of all of us was 15.4 billion euros, about 55%, 60% of gross domestic product. In 2007 it is 100% higher. And having 5.8 economic growth generated by almost a one-time debt increase is unsustainable in the long run, so there are crises. This crisis is around the corner, called problems in the US real estate market. To finance or refinance EUR 32.4 billion is much more difficult than EUR 15.4 billion. Much more expensive, even impossible. Therefore, there will be serious liquidity and I hope that neither the solvency problems of Slovenian banks will arise. We solved the solvency problems of Slovenian banks in 1992, 1994 with public debt, which cost Slovenian taxpayers a lot. Is it necessary to go this far? The development model is significantly changed and therefore individual measures are not sufficient, a comprehensive anti-inflation plan is lacking. This anti-inflation plan is it. which is what the applicants want to hear and discuss at today's session. In November 2003, such an anti-inflation plan, a plan to take over the euro, was presented by the previous government itself, together with Banka Slovenija. Today we are talking about a plan "to preserve the welfare of the euro". That's what we need to talk about. Stroka, Banka Slovenije, the social partners must participate in this plan. It is not possible that they would be in a situation where the government rejects warnings from economists when the government warns that the social partners themselves should agree on what they want to pay and the government will wait peacefully. If wages rise in the private sector that goes beyond productivity, then the Portuguese scenario can occur when the economy's competitiveness decreases and the downturn in the balance of payments will continue. I welcome the Government's presentation of a document today. The interesting thing about this document is that for now it is only a document of the Ministry of Finance. How's it going? We are all interested in reaching solutions without sentences in 2008. In order to harmonise wages in the private sector, with an agreement between employers and employees, the Government must also contribute to this with a serious budget for 2008, with a austerity budget, not a budget that currently has a two-digit growth of 11%, a fifth increase in material costs and a 30% increase in investment. This also generates some corruption. Income and action with some measures for a few tens of thousands of people are too small. We therefore expect to discuss the proposals for action today and agree on a timetable for how to proceed. Without that, we will have only a technical government in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Lahovnik will speak on behalf of the applicants next.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Dear Council of Ministers! In the Group of Members, we truly regret that the President of the Government did not take our call seriously last August when we wrote to him about the problem of inflation. We then invited him to convene a meeting of all parliamentary parties and also invite the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and representatives of trade unions to discuss the key objectives of public financial policy in order to cool down inflationary trends before sending the budget to the National Assembly for 2008 and 2009. Back then, it was more than obvious that inflation was becoming a trend and that it was not just a seasonal phenomenon, we could also hear from some government institutions. Well, unfortunately, this letter didn't help, and so did many other calls. And if we look at what's in this letter, what we've already written to him at the time, that inflation is high, that managers' ransoms are happening, that are exhausting businesses, that at the time of the increase in interest rates and the expected recession, the economy can get into big trouble, and all of this is happening gradually. If we look at the data, then we can see that inflation was 6.4% in January, that the current balance of payments projections for this year are higher than 4%, that the total debt of the country is now more than €32 billion, and that it has increased from €10, some more than €10 billion to over €32 billion, from 2001 to 2001. It is now fair to say that a large part of the waste on private unsecured debt, in fact the majority, but the fact is also that guarantees amounted to around €2.3 billion in 2004, today amount to €3.6 billion of the government-provided guarantees. We see there's already more than 50% growth here. It is no coincidence that Commissioner Almunia invites us to avoid pro-cyclical policies rather than anti-cyclical policy, that even the Governor of Banka Slovenije, whom we have elected by a large majority to this position, invites us to start implementing restrictive fiscal policy. For all economists know that, contrary to Mr Bayuk's opinion and statements, that such a policy should be implemented, we should lead, in particular, an expansionary fiscal policy, which is reflected in 1% of the structural deficit. We have a statistical surplus, which is the result of random events, especially the fact that we are not able to draw funds from the European Structural Funds properly, which is a big black point for the competent authorities in the government, but on the other hand, the structural deficit is more than 1%. There are two explanations of inflation that can be traced between economists. One is a competitive interpretation, which says that the problem is not only in large market concentration and not only in trade, but also in vertical integrations between agricultural producers and food processors, so this is one aspect and the fact is that we must recognise that there are also external shocks that the government cannot influence the rise in energy price to a large extent. Of course, the rise in the price of food has hit all countries to some extent, but the fact is that the increase in food prices was the highest in Slovenia and that all of these external shocks were most translated into retail prices in Slovenia. And another explanation, which says that the inflation index does not make sense to dissect and determine what contributes most to this index, because it is either way just external signs that we need to deepen ourselves more for reasons. This second economic explanation, however, says that the reasons are also in the great imbalance between the investments and the savings we are witnessing in Slovenia. If we look at the facts, we can see that, for example, investment in construction has increased almost 17% and that, during the last period, during the mandate of this government, it has, in particular, increased the growth of so-called lower value-added production activities. Investments totalled around €10 billion in 2007, savings were around €8.8 billion and this deficit is also reflected in the current balance of payments account. The gap between investment and savings has been increasing since 2005 and it is no coincidence that this government then changed the way the highway network was built - we have also warned of this at that time, and no one has wanted to hear it - in such a way that, of course, this motorway network is no longer financed in such a large amount of budget resources as it has been in the past, but almost exclusively with guarantees granted by the State to Darsu. And as I said before, the increase in guarantees is huge in the mandate of this government, 50%. However, it is also clear that the fact that we are facing, as I said, on the other hand, this is a discrepancy between investment and savings. Thus, many economists point out that the Government, with inadequate budgetary policy, has contributed greatly to the fact that inflation in Slovenia is so much higher than in some other countries. External shocks work on everything. But it is in Slovenia that they are much more translated into retail prices than in some other countries. And because in Slovenia we have been promoting investment in activities with a lower added value than the average in recent years, it is said in activities with a sub-average added value, we come up with an interesting, so-called "Slovenian paradox". More than we invest in these activities with a mean added value, we are poorer. This is the paradox we can follow. Because of these investments, of course, to a greater extent, they also reflect the addition of oil to inflationary fires. However, the economic structure has not changed significantly. And let me give you just one more typical example with which the government likes to brag. He says export growth is still high. And that's true. At the moment, or if we look at it, last year was 15.8%. But what they don't say is that in the last quarter, they've dropped out of this export growth of up to 40% on car exports. So, to a large extent, to Revoz. In short, the question is, of course, what are the additional other activities that can be internationally competitive with this high growth? And when we analyze the growth structure, we come, as I said before, to this famous "Slovenian paradox". The higher the level of investment, the stronger the sub-average added value activities and the poorer we are. The paradox arising from the high imbalance between investments and savings and the fact that investments are not targeted at those activities with a higher average added value. Macro-economic data also show this very clearly. Dear Members and Members. Of course, in the Group of Members, we do not promise to resolve the problems of inflation from today's debate. It was time, however, for this debate to take place in the National Assembly, mainly because the Government did not respond to the calls of economists, the Bank of Slovenia, international institutions and, of course, parliamentary groups. The President of the Government should have long ago called a meeting to which he would have invited: the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, representatives of trade unions, several eminent economists, and if you would also like representatives of parliamentary parties to harmonise for a harmonised public policy by making the best possible contribution to reducing this inflationary spiral. Not all of this has happened, there has been no hearing, so we estimate that it is right that the debate is also held today in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u11	Thank you. He will now be given the floor, Mr Happy Friend, also on behalf of the applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues. The measures taken in relation to the high price increase in the adoption of all the laws of the National Assembly in this procedure are, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, aimed only at mitigating the actual measures. These are measures that are necessary, but will not affect the reduction and calming of inflation. We cannot blame the increase in inflation in the second half of 2007 only for rising oil prices and rising food prices, as stated in the stability programme or better in the instability programme in the Government, but in fact there are other reasons. I am personally pleased that today this debate is in the National Assembly, although I do not understand the fact that the President of the Government did not react to my initiative in the past year. The President of the National Assembly, as well as the President of the State who has the right of procedure and the opportunity to convene an extraordinary meeting. Since this has not happened, the opposition has acted wisely and, of course, has withdrawn its powers and today we have an extraordinary session, for which I fear that it will be just a debate circle. For the already vague view of the ruling coalition's reaction suggests that once again with a powerful argument they will overtake all the well-meaning remarks and comments and, of course, also advice on how to alleviate poverty and inflation in the country and once again propose something of their own, which will offer a solution in half and, of course, increase this dissatisfaction that is growing between citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. Your Honor! The Republic of Slovenia has a stable budget. We can even boast of surpluses, says the government. That's what the government says. This budget is very unstable, this will prove to be as hollow as cheese and will soon prove to be, because everything we are doing today also affects the future of another government, which will have catastrophic consequences. We are the most indebted country and we owe our grandchildren or we could say as much as their generation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should take care of prosperity and general development, but it only takes this as the last task and priority. This is reflected in growing poverty. A mere review and a section of the state shows that the standard of living in the Republic of Slovenia is significantly lower from independence to today. I have used the data that we also have available on the websites of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. And if you just look at the Life Needs Index from 1996 to 2006, for this period data are available, from 100 to 181. That's sad. And in doing so, wages basically stagnate, they don't grow. Salaries in Slovenia are not European, they are shameful to say Balkan, if not Albanian. Uncoordinated public sector wages will also not bring satisfaction with recent measures. For we know that those who today create surpluses and enable individuals to be rich do not have the right to participate in pure profit. Perhaps this will be slightly better by adopting the last legislation, which is in the procedure, but I do not believe that this discriminatory way of dealing with social partners will be improved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, a handful of people are allowed almost anything. Almost everything. This is seen that a handful of privileged people can raise unbought shares as a guarantee and thus carry out management acquisitions in companies and bitches in private accounts rich profits. It's hard to understand a person who has to survive from 300 euros a month. I believe that this understanding will never be achieved in the government coalition. Unless we lower our salaries to this level and force them to spend one month with such personal benefits, we will see if they will still defend what they are defending. Social transfers, if we look at it; this is recorded in the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia; if income did not include family and social benefits, the level of risk of poverty in Slovenia would be higher than 25%, so it is written. Do you know what 25% is? One quarter of the population lives below the poverty line. Of course, the government doesn't care. Mr. Bayuk doesn't care. Despite my promise that inflation will stop, this is not the case, inflation is rising. When will inflation stop? At the time of the introduction of the euro, we were promised in the National Assembly that food prices would not go up, but they increased by 100% - this is how the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show. Did the wages go up 100%? They're not. They didn't even raise by a tenth. Disalignment of wages with inflation is also a great insight to the government. Would it not be right and fair for the government to allow wages to be coordinated at least for the part of inflation that is essentially the cause and fault of the government? At least the government should make up for this without burdening citizens and citizens. Today we have a state in the country that essentially poor people make high profits to privileged people. Companies with high yields, high added value, and in these companies, we find people who are paid in a miserable way so miserable that they can't even provide their basic survival. The basic remuneration is not sufficient for the basic basket of living costs that is calculated. Food, despite the fact that food is hyperproducing in Europe, is more expensive. Why? Because, in essence, limited imports are allowed and even force domestic producers to stop producing what they could do themselves. As has already been said, I expect from today's session that in the course of the entire debate, the whole open debate, the reasonableness of the opposition Members will be so great that they will once again look at all the conclusions that we have drawn with the opposition partners and not in fact do what they intend to do with the vote, reject everything that is good. On the other hand, there are also good suggestions, and today it is time for us to take a closer look at the responsibility and find those conclusions offered by the opposition as good and accept them, because this is why the Government is even more obliged to do so, since it has signed to work for the welfare and well-being of citizens and citizens, and the data and facts show that this is not the case. As has already been said, I also hope that he will speak during today's finance minister, Mr Bayuk, and explain the latest developments, because his last promises were that inflation must stop. It's not like that, as I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peca is also on behalf of the candidates. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u14	Honourable presence, a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Lip. If we were three months ago, at every opportunity, perhaps a national celebration, at any public transfer by the President of the Government or any other member of the Government, we are aware that we have high economic growth, that our public finances are healthy and that Slovenia has nothing to fear, then we can say with certainty that we have taken a step forward in these two months of 2008. Unfortunately, of course, he's too small. This step is at least that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also become aware of the dangers of inflation and that the worst thing is happening during this period, that someone is holding back his eyes and denying everyday irritations and is denying the ever-increasing social distress of the ever-increasing number of inhabitants and residents of our country. But in reality, I personally, or rather, in the unconnected Lip Group of Members of Parliament, fear that we are late. We're afraid we're even too late. The fact is, every day, we are witnessing inflation in trade, and the fact is, regardless of what government statistics show, that more and more jobs are at risk. In my firm opinion, unfortunately, it is precisely because of the blind blindness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that we have come into the period that some macroeconomicists call the inflationary spiral because of the lack of recognition of the macroeconomic situation in our country. So inflation is not just what people feel in trade at the moment. So when we meet rising prices of basic necessities of life. But there is, of course, a second and a third dimension to inflation here and today. I think both dimensions are as important as raising prices. Thus, inflation is not only a breakdown of the incomes of the population, which means that for the same quantity we get less goods, but, of course, it also has an impact on production and this is the effect of the inflation spiral, those spirals which are extremely difficult to contain and, unfortunately, none of the government's activities indicate that the Government, as an executive branch of government, is willing to cope with this trend in our country. I was talking about the effect on production. Thus, in this form, when higher prices are reduced to claims, which is normal for higher wages, and at higher costs for the company and again we are at the moment of price increases, as well as covering that element that allows the economy or entrepreneurship, development in normal form forward. And if we also take into account the required macroeconomic environment in which Slovenia is a member of the European Union, then we can certainly say that when we are at this fourth stage, we will enter a period when Slovenian companies become uncompetitive. Employment problems arise and a period of low economic growth is set out in this Title. I started the inflation spiral with a period of high economic growth and ended with a period of low economic growth. And now each of you, honourable Members, if we are today in a period of high economic growth, of which the Government teaches us, informs us daily, and if we are witnessing daily irritations during this period, or you can even imagine what will happen when we are in a period of low economic growth. From this title, not only criticism, so criticism is too little, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is resentful because in 2008 it did not come with any of the measures for real price reduction or otherwise stated inflation. Because the Government, and the Government, had a person who had scissors and canvas in his hands, denied promotions throughout 2007. But why did she deny them? In all likelihood, this is clear only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think the fight against inflation is much more than a political fight for this year's elections. Very irresponsible on the part of each of us, and perhaps even the speakers in front of me or the speakers behind me, would be if I were building my own election campaign on this subject. We distance ourselves from this in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament, because that would not be right. In 2007, when everything, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was so beautiful and good in our country, there were some structural changes, mainly in the form of government debt and property. In our firm belief, the key transactions were the second and third balances of the public financial sector. And if the government has increased its external debt to 3.3% of GDP in the first quarter, this has not created an climate or a foundation that would allow for a quality response to creating, then emerging inflationary tendencies. On the other hand, I must say that in the second quarter the external debt has changed, the external debt has increased with domestic debt and that the country has sold net assets for around 0.4 GDP at that time. The issue of external debt servicing remained open outside the reach of macro-economics, but only under the influence of politicians within the Ministry of Finance. In addition to these state transactions, which were not in place, we are now witnessing with auctions, and new dimensions have also been introduced into the economy. For the first time, an extremely rapid increase in investments, over 20%, but these were, unfortunately, investments without real coverage. So investments that were conditional exclusively through another dimension, which is the one that must be scary for anyone who deals with the economy, this is an extremely rapid increase in credit. More than 25%, by the way. And if investments have increased by 20%, then 25% of the increase in credits, whether in the country or in the economy, is the moment that clearly indicates that the government still has no clear or better quality and concrete content against the fight against inflation. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the part where the talks on the rise of loans by borrowers in the form of citizens and citizens, created exclusively short-term satisfaction and a long-term subordinate position of creditors, or the absolute dependence of almost every single individual in our country, from the so-called para-national system. From this title, I think it is most important that we stress once again and that we must not agree on government theories on how to reduce the above matter unless the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepts those few basic moments which, according to my assessment, are sent to Slovenia by both foreign and domestic macroeconomicists. Unfortunately, they are unheard of because they are not party members of the SDS or New Slovenia. So, what do we do? What do we do today and now, here? According to my assessment or according to Slovenia's firm conviction and behaviour, it has not met the convergence criteria for months. So those foundations on which a solid euro currency is built. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia followed these objectives at a moment and used them until Slovenia took over the euro. Since Slovenia took over the euro, the criteria no longer apply to the stability of the said asset, but have been left to themselves, both the interest rate and the debt as the public debt as the structure. And until the government is aware that, unfortunately, fiscal measures are the only measures left as an element, but at least horizontal or vertical dimensioning and thereby promoting businesses, we will not be able to take this step, which will push us from month to month, and finally push us, and I will be pleased to say, into a poor will when we enter the trade for basic necessities of life. After the basic necessities of life. We are not at a moment of exhilaration, so extreme, but I will say, luxury goods, and therefore I cannot understand the transfer of government when it comes to inflation on the supply side or demand side. In fact, we all need to be aware that the demand for basic necessities of life, such as basic food products, will follow the price recorded on the sales list, because it simply does not work and this story is unfortunately very sad. According to the opinion of the Lipa Group, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only because of the call of opposition parties, should approach the balance of the budget, which expresses fiscal policy within our country. In fact, it should begin to be aware that functioning in the euro area requires fiscal policy more than has been defined in past practice, namely this or previous governments. And from this title, if we really want to deal with this danger, which is today and here, it is necessary to adopt conclusions that are highlighted, and also to take a step further, it is to create a dialogue with both the Bank of Slovenia and the economists and not to create a negative climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u15	Thank you. The material was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and prepared a supplementary proposal for conclusions. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome it all very well. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall, at its 35th urgent meeting on 7.2. and in its follow-up to 13.2.2008, at the initiative of the Group of Members and Members of the National Assembly with the first signed Jozet Školč, in the context of the request for an emergency meeting of 18.1.2008, consider the proposed point of resolution of the high inflation issue and the preparation of anti-inflation measures with proposals for conclusions. The members of the committee were invited to attend: Minister of Finance, representatives of the Government of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Economy, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Bank of Slovenia, Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, Department of Pension and Disability Insurance, Institute of Health Insurance and Agency for the Market of Securities. We received material: Price Stability Report, October 2007; Stability Programme, Supplement 2007; Monthly Bulletin of the European Central Bank, December 2007; In addition to this material, members of the Committee received further proposals from the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party's Party's parliamentary groups, to the points discussed of 7.2.2008, accompanying graphs of inflation movements at the presentation of the representative of the Bank of Slovenia and amendments from the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party's Party's proposed conclusions of the request of 13.2 Then it followed about five hours of long-term discussion, based on both the proposaler and those who opposed the proposer's opinion, that was a debate of the convinced, where he was not prepared to change his opinion substantially. [[..]] In a way, this discussion has been used as a criticism of the Government, the criticism of its action and its actions in addressing the problem of inflation, as well as the problem posed by inflation, which is the deterioration of the situation of socially weak citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposals to actually come out of this debate have not been put forward with any very quality or binding proposals to further address this issue. We have insisted on each other's proposals, but they are more concrete and in some ways not so binding, not one, not the other. One suggestion was about what the government should do. Because she did not do and did not respond in time, nor in quality enough, or as if she had not responded at all. On the other hand, it was said that the response was sufficient to be timely, to prepare some further changes that would follow to mitigate both the effects of inflation and inflation alone. First of all, we have considered seven proposals which we have not adopted, including the amendment that has been tabled. The following was followed by a discussion and a vote on the individual amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party's Party to the basic request and the above proposal, in substance, add these following eight decisions, which, including the amendment to the fifth and eighth decisions, the Committee also adopts and submits a supplementary proposal to the National Assembly to adopt them after the conclusion of today's hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u17	Thank you to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. With regard to the report of this working body, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that qualified applicants can submit amendments to the updated proposal for conclusions by the end of the general debate of Members and Members. I now give the floor to the representatives of the Government to present the opinion. First of all, I invite you to the words of Dr. Andre Bajuk, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. That's a good-bye to everyone. I would like to start and really thank you for this opportunity that we have today to go not only in this National Assembly, but also before the wider Slovenian public with someone, what I hope, no matter what I have heard so far, there will be a constructive debate on what is actually happening in our economy and our society, and which is linked to what we are all worried about - and this is an increase in inflation in the last six, seven months. First of all, I would like to focus personally on the overall macroeconomic background, with particular emphasis on 2007 in such a way as to look at what was actually happening. Whether there are such key ones, I would say, fundamental imbalances in ours, from a macroeconomic point of view. Then we will also explain the reasons for the rise in inflation, which were offered shocks in the field of food prices and oil derivatives in 2007, and the way this inflation turned into an economy due to the structure of the market and also to inflationary expectations and inflationary movements. Here I would point to one very important dimension of the problem and these are expectations. The first presentation or the first one to present the position of the panel's proponents today referred to a statement I made in July, in which I expressed my main concern about how this matter began to be discussed in our society, since it had already begun to inspire and represent the situation. Because if you look at data in May and June, it hasn't been like that, and from there it's just been increasing. And I think that one of the key conclusions of this debate is to sober up the debate, to look at and focus on the data, not on the flat-rate assessments or wishes of those who would like to see this matter presented and experienced as if Slovenia were at the threshold of disaster. It's not like that yet. The fact is, and here's a good graph that you can look at what's happening to us. Although economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia has been announced this year, I believe that based on the autumn forecast of Umarja, 5.8%, in fact the European Commission, which was here in October and reviewed all the data we had at our disposal, is forecasting 6%. Today, Eurostat will publish certain data, and we hope that this will also be confirmed. Otherwise, from the point of view and from the data available to the Ministry of Finance, which is not in charge of making such assessments, we are confident that economic growth in 2007 will be higher than the latest forecast of Umarje 5.8% and that it will be approaching if it does not slightly exceed 6.3. This is for a simple reason - because in the quarters, if you look at what happened in 2007, in the first quarter, the economic growth was 7.2%, then in the second quarter it fell to 6% and then to 6.3 in the third. So there are no great signs that it could have gone significantly differently. Although he's calming down a little bit, and that's why we expect him to be 6%. And it's very clear here. Are we really witnessing some deep imbalances? First of all, I'd like to point out what's going on with the investments. That's the blue line over there, the highest. Investments have increased significantly from the first quarter of 2006 to the last data available to us by the end of September 2007. And not just as some would like to show, in construction. In construction it is necessary to distinguish what information is for the private, what they invest and what the state actually invests. And, of course, strong investments in intangible assets. Then the other very important page is the next two curves, and what happens to exports and what happens to imports. If you are looking at exports, and this is the latest data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, exports in 2007 are expected to increase by around 16% above what happened in 2006. This in itself, if it were somewhere else or if I remember in the past, when various so-called Asian tigers showed such economic growth and such an increase in exports, the whole world admired and applauded. Here we hear within Slovenia, only within Slovenia and from certain circles warned that Slovenia is indeed failing, when it is actually increasing its exports. And that is the strongest source of our economic growth. Which, of course, would not be possible if the high competitiveness of our operation were not present, but I am not saying now to the Government, the whole economy, and a little more about it. Another important thing that's on this graph is what happens to consumption. But it's an expression of some increased consumption. If you look at the last two years and by the end of September, as I said before, by the end of September 2007, household consumption is actually below the level of economic growth. This is not an impossible reason to be a source of inflation. The greater real income of the population has not shifted to greater consumption, but to greater savings. On the other hand, there is consumption of the country. But if you're looking at the consumption of the country, but it's also below this level, far below the level of economic growth. And the so-called consumption, just as experts who do national accounts, mark it, is very low - 2.5%. And the contribution of this consumption and not more than 0.3% to economic growth. High GDP growth has not been translated into high wage growth. This is also a very important thing. This is a very important information, and this is a fact for us, and this must be further commended for what the Slovenian society has actually achieved in the last three years on the basis of the social partnership. And this is an agreement on how wages are to unfold or change during this period. I think that this is a very important information that we still need to be aware of in the National Assembly when we discuss and talk about these things. In fact, wages in the Republic of Slovenia have increased lower than productivity and such a presentation of opinions, which then goes beyond our borders and unresponsibly repeats itself, is completely beyond any measure of common sense, because obviously it does not match the data we all have. We know that wage growth in Slovenia was under productivity. In the public sector, in certain years, 2.5% lower and 2.5% lower than productivity in the private sector. This is also clearly shown on this graph. The dark line is how gross domestic wages have been shed and it is clear that productivity has been increased, both in the public sector and in the private sector, under productivity. Here I would like to mention what it means to discuss at home in a flat and meaningless way on the basis of data on certain things. In the Slovenian media, a very resounding statement was made by a member of the Board of the European Central Bank at a lecture in Vienna on 20 November 2007, which repeated things he read about what was happening in Slovenia, which is where we export ourselves as a picture of our reality. And this Mr Lorenzo Bini Smaghi claimed, among other things, completely irresponsible that in Slovenia wage policy is irresponsible and that we raise wages above productivity. I personally discussed this matter with the European Central Bank's leadership. This is not their position, but it was one phenomenon of what happens, how certain speeches reflect, irresponsible speeches or irresponsible writing about our reality, if not based on data from a serious debate and a minimum political culture. What's going on now? In the debates and negotiations between the social partners mainly in the public sector, trade unions and the government have reached an agreement and a wage policy that has been severely lagging behind productivity in the public sector will increase, will change, as we all know and realize that such a wage policy is unsustainable and should not remain as it has been in the last three years. But there was a different feeling, a constructive sense on both sides. And we will achieve what I have always advocated and recommended that we need a so-called soft landing into some normality when we have achieved such changes as society, not as a government. As far as wage policy is concerned in the public sector, it will not exceed productivity. And the statements we've heard today, if they don't, and then all of a sudden, we're going to have a disaster in Portugal, they're irresponsible, they're not in line with reality. Please read all those who repeat such things today, what is the agreement between the government and the public sector unions, and you will see that a completely different atmosphere prevails, as sometimes attempts to create itself in the National Assembly by representatives of the opposition. As far as the private sector is concerned, the negotiations are still ongoing and it is right to continue. And I am sure that in this area, too, common sense will prevail and that, as far as the private sector is concerned, we will reach an agreement on wage increases that will be in line with what Slovenia can achieve today and what our society needs. And this is a soft landing to remove ourselves from the fact that we will always have an increase in wages under productivity, to get closer to what we can all expect in some normal society, legitimately and also the government expects it to be. Households don't spend any more, the state doesn't spend any more. What about that, I'd say what the government can do, and that's price regulation. Let's see what has been happening at regulated prices since 2001. Here's your information. Apparently, if you're watching inflation all this time, it's changed. He goes up and down. This is normal, and regulated prices rose higher than in 2006 and regulated prices were under strict control and were lower than overall inflation growth. That's clear from the data. If anyone has any other information, please bring it to the table, not include it irresponsibly in their speeches. It is true, however, that in the last three months certain regulated prices have increased and increased. And here is also the reason for the other consequences, which I will also mention later, but these are specific situations in which too much policy has been pursued in the past and the reality needs to be incorporated in some reasonable way. What about this second argument? If Slovenia has such inflation, we are at risk of losing our competitiveness. Of course he does. If, over the next five years, we were to constantly accept the fact that our inflation would be what it is, then we could talk about it. Can we talk about losing competitiveness now? Are there legitimate arguments that we hear, what is happening to us, as far as the competition of the Slovenian economy is concerned? Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the data. I've already mentioned how much exports have increased. Now there is another information that you can verify in the last mirror of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. There is no graph, but it is also clear there that all of this is justified. The competitiveness of the Slovenian economy improved in 2007. Really? How did it get better? If you are looking at a real effective course, Slovenia is part of the four euro area countries for Germany, which have increased their competitiveness by up to 2%. Why? If you calculate an effective course and use a pay deflator per unit of product of the processing industry, this is the data. What was actually going on? Please look at the data, check what's going on, and you'll see that we're far away from this. But we can be proud of what happens in our society. We have increased competitiveness, not that we have reduced it. There's something else about public finances. Today we have again heard an unfounded argument that the Bank of Slovenia’s analytical research centre announced inflation and major problems in November 2006. Apart from the flat rate, but I'm not going to go into that, it's supposed to be a big reason I don't know what the changes are. Let's take a look at the facts. That document was marked as strictly confidential and therefore we were unable to make a public appearance with it. When the debate on this document was extended to the media area, the Bank of Slovenia published it within fourteen days on its websites. He was available at the time. It wasn't classified anymore, it was working material. What was in that workpiece? The Bank of Slovenia’s Analytical Research Centre did not predict any inflation. The word inflation is not mentioned at all. Those of you who have so much to say about these matters, please read things before making such statements. The fact is that the analytical development centre did a study and predicted a fall in revenue and also increased expenditure. What did he predict, not Banka Slovenije, that section of Banka Slovenije that published it? That there will be a deficit in the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 2% of GDP. What's the reality? We have a surplus of ESA 95 instead of 2% of GDP, as was then predicted and then circulated around the world, in fact in 2007 it will end up as an evidence account, and these are estimates by the Ministry of Finance services that there is a deficit, not only that it has been eliminated, that it has been reduced, the deficit has turned into a surplus. What did they tell us about 2008? It's an even bigger deficit. Of course it's a catastrophic image. It's in that document. You can read that. But the facts are different. The data is different. Of course, there are doubts now. What if the Ministry of Finance gives us the wrong information? And I'm glad it's happening again. But here I am responsible, currently responsible for the Ministry of Public Finance, and I can assure you once again. The professional services of the Ministry of Finance are extremely professional. They'd never do anything like that. And I wouldn't take it personally. Let's see what happened here. It has to be repeated. More and more. 'Cause it doesn't look like it's working. It does not come into the flesh and blood, as is the situation in the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia. And that it's real. The government's public policy was obviously countercyclical. In 2000, the overall deficit in public finances was very high, 3.8% of GDP. The following year, in 2001, it increased to 4% of GDP, then fell to 2.5 in 2002, in 2003 between 2.7 and 2.8. In 2004, however, at 2.3% of GDP. From there on, when we assumed the responsibility of public finance management, the deficit fell to 1.5%. Then it fell again in 2006 to 1.2%. In 2007, however, the surplus estimated by the Ministry of Finance’s professional services, ESA 95, is a surplus of between 0.1 and 0.2%. It will be definitive when we bring the final bill to your discussion. So this is the tragic work of the Government, which we have heard of today so passionately speaking without any basis of data. How did this happen? And there are again various assessments that I would like to respond to only with data. It's not a coincidence, it didn't happen, it was supposed to happen, and nothing but this, and we're gonna see what happened. Let's compare the results in 2007 to 2006. Current transfers, this is a large part of our budget, have grown, have actually decreased by 0.1%. I can already imagine what the social state is going to be like now. No, you know what happened? Unemployment has been reduced, however, and this occurs in expenditure where less money has to be given for what the law provides and says we must do, as far as unemployment is concerned. Interest payments decreased again by 8.1%. This is for all those of you who have so much to say, and such flat-rate evaluations, as far as our debt is concerned, or the effects, how tragic all of this is. Expenditure on goods and services decreased to 2.9% as real growth, wages and other expenditure for minus 0.2, current expenditure 0.7, and overall decreased by 1.5 as growth. One wonders why such presentations are made when the information is completely different. Of course, then there will be an additional argument. Look what's going on! Of course because they ruled out Dars, because Dars and Dars guarantees aren't included in public finances. A few more words about this, because I think it's very important. Why didn't they? Do you think this government has ruled them out? In 1999 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through the Ministry of Finance, was then Mag. Mitja Gaspari asked the International Monetary Fund to analyse whether this belonged to public finances or not. The report exists and is confidential again, I have no problem translating it into Slovenian and also publishing it. At that time, the International Monetary Fund decided, explicitly, that given that Dars would finance himself with his own resources, that is to say via toll, he was no part of public finances. But it was also Eurostat, not once, the last time they reviewed it, in March 2004, but it was the last time in the first months of 2005, because I wanted to re-check it as a finance minister. And of course it is. Let's see what really happened, what's been tragic here, and let's look back as a proportion of GDP's net debt to Dars since 2000. In 2000, 0.89% of GDP, 2001 0.45%, then in 2002 0.60, in 2004 1.15. Then what? Then there's 0,80 in 2005, there's no, I don't know what's different, 0.85 2006 and 1.47 in 2007. Yes, because we have consciously decided to end the highway cross earlier than it was planned, because obviously, ladies and gentlemen, the highway cross, to build for more than a decade, is not something that Slovenia could behave as very positive and good. But whoever has any doubts about this, let him go to Prekmurje and ask how glad they are that the trucks from Central Asia drive them at three o'clock in the morning and their houses shake. Once it has to be done, it has to be done, not forever. But then there's the consequences. Now let's go to inflation as such. There's a lot of talk, look, there's a lot of difference here. If we take out food and take out fuel and tobacco and alcohol, let us compare how it has been since 2001. Let us compare this with the same inflation on the same harmonised index of prices of living needs, without energy, food, alcohol and tobacco, when compared with Germany, which is a very important country in the entire economy of Europe, that I do not speak in the euro area as such and also the country in which we export a very large part of our exports. And it is clear that this graph also shows clearly how this difference is happening in Slovenia and Germany, how it has been declining throughout the whole period. It has increased over the last three months, this is true, a little more why, among other things, because certain controlled prices have risen above average, and above all, what is happening in Slovenia is a completely different story. In this story, however, we have very specific data from Eurostat, no longer the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that there will be no further suspicion of conversion here. Let's see what happened as far as food prices are concerned. If you look at the data in the euro area: food prices have risen. Of course, they increased, and in 2007 they increased by 8.6% from January to December. This is if you measure prices in the field of producers. But if you look at what happened in the euro area without Slovenia at a lower level, that is to say, when it comes to consumers when we talk about prices at the level of traders, and there in Europe this growth was lower because the whole trade sector absorbed part of this price increase at the producer level. They increased by 7%. What happened in Slovenia? True, we also import food in Slovenia, we partially import it. And with us, this index at the producer level increased by 10% to 8.6 in, say, the euro area without Slovenia. What happened at the level of the merchants? 15.4% is rather than in the euro area, where traders have actually partially absorbed over margins in Slovenia, not only have they not reduced but they have increased. And it's going to be a lot bigger. So increased that at the processor level itself 10.1 to 15.4 when they go retail. These are the facts, these are the facts of the reality of our market, where the problems of lack of real competition are more than obvious. We must repeat that in Slovenia we have experienced an offer of shock. That's two. And two in the field of food, and the third in the field of oil and petroleum derivatives. Yeah, and I'm gonna have to say it again. The first shock was in unprocessed food, in the second half of April. This is also clearly stated on this graph. Here's your month after month in the last four years. It is said that you have four towers in January, the last one is of course 2007. And you see how much the unprocessed food grew in late April. The second shock, and how it poured into the economy, we have already marked it in the previous paragraph. The second shock was processed food. In part, if we import it, we know that prices have increased elsewhere, they have increased a little bit more with us, and above all they went higher on the level when we include the margins, which happened when the traders played theirs. Third shock, and that's the last one, but they're oil and oil derivatives. Yeah. Of course we have to do it again. Here's two curves. The one in the swim is 2006, what happened in the 12 months of 2006 and the red one, what happened to the price of oil and petroleum derivatives in 2007. Believe me, no professional service, not just Slovenia, has predicted anywhere in the world, no one has predicted such a difference that we will feel such a difference in 2007. However, that this has a particular impact and a greater impact in our economy, as elsewhere in the euro area or other European countries, is the fact that part of our consumption of oil and petroleum derivatives is even bigger in our index than elsewhere. There is one external shock, whether you include it in your debates or not. The fact is, however, that some specific information will have to be provided. Then I'd end up with just one thing. Yeah, it's really inflation in Slovenia. Four-fifths of the difference between inflation from 2006 to 2007 can be explained and justified on the basis of an extraordinary rise in food prices, both processed and unprocessed, and an extraordinary increase in oil and oil prices. I will now ask my colleague, Minister Visiak, to explain the other dimensions of this issue from the perspective of his responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u19	Dear Members and Members! Honourable President of Parliament! A fellow minister! When we hear some claims from the opposition here that no one knows what he is doing, that there is no anti-inflation programme, I have a feeling that some people do not want to hear or read what is happening and are repeating themselves as lazy some of the untruths in order to seize and thus create confusion in Slovenia. But this is the task of the opposition. Unfortunately, however, such statements also generate inflationary expectations. And that increases inflation, and that's bad. Therefore, I would also call on everyone to refrain from doing so if, of course, these findings are not based on data, but only on some indications. When I also listen here in the National Assembly, if the calls of economists say how united and how the government could actually come with some anti-inflationary expectation, I will read here a call from an economist who is not ex-politics, such as some ministers who are now declaring themselves experts from the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana and so on. A respected economist, who is also a professor and has never been a politician, wrote the following in a diary today. "Messengers proposing smaller investments should therefore draw up a list, which of the places from which their electorates are from this year will not receive, for example, a water supply station, a school gym or how we will continue on the bad roads, to say which of the more than 10,000 jobs created last year are those jobs with low productivity and would not be supported by encouraging investment. Where to cut the budget, specifically, respected, say? And a very "comet" is to say, "The government has to lower public spending, and Members don't want to, very clearly write where." This was written by a respected economist in today's officer. The opposition, of course, demands lower spending on the one hand and, on the other hand, proposes higher social transfers. This diametric position is very difficult to understand. Now there is something about concrete measures taken by the Ministry of Economy or services which are the bodies of this Ministry. I'm going to count three important circuits. The first set is a competition policy. The second set is a restrictive policy of regulated prices and the third set is consumer information. First, the competition policy. We have been taking measures to effectively implement competition policy to ensure that the responses to the future shocks that come from the international environment must be such that they feel the least in the reflection of the rise in retail prices and therefore would not even be exponentially passed on to domestic prices. The most important measures concern strengthening the activities of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which has already started with a number of activities. For example: identification of possible infringements of competition rules by commercial companies and suppliers of bakery products, meat, milk; assessment of likely infringements of competition rules by electricity distributors in the supply of electricity to domestic customers; introduction of procedures under official duty due to the likely suspension of the notification of alleged concentrations. This Parliament has also adopted some important amendments to the laws that allow for faster and higher sanctioning of fines for infringements of competition law. This has also been the case with the amendment of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, where fines are increasing and even through administrative channels it is possible to make these fines more effective. The second point is, of course, a restrictive policy of regulated prices. The government will continue its restrictive policy of regulated prices so that it will not contribute to inflation. Let me just mention a few numbers. The price increase in the regulated price plan under direct government control in 2008 will not exceed 0.35%, which will contribute a maximum of 0.05% of the point to inflation in 2008. This calculation also includes anticipated increases in fiscal burdens, such as the contribution to commodity reserves. In 2009, this policy will be even more restrictive and the increase in regulated prices is expected to be only 0.34%, which is expected to contribute only 0.05% of the point of inflation. The government therefore follows these measures in concrete terms after inflation has subsidised. And a third important measure is the information provided by consumers by the Ministry of Economy through the Office of Consumer Protection and in connection with NGOs. The objective of the activities and measures listed is to inform the consumer of developments in the price of basic products. We would like to inform consumers that they can make an important contribution to price rebalancing by taking into account and checking prices and buying where price-quality ratios are most favourable. The participation of the Ministry of Economy, the Office, with a non-governmental organisation is specifically defined in a number of activities that took place from October 2007 to January 2008. New activities are also agreed, namely weekly monitoring of prices of 35 basic representative food products, which have the largest proportion in the consumer basket: bread and products, meat and products, milk and products, fruit and vegetables, fats, other foods and so on, and will be made available to the public at press conferences and other forms, as appropriate. The prices will be monitored in six trading chains: Mercator, Spar, Shower, Hofer, Lidl, E'Leclerc and Eurospin. Data on price levels and pricing by individual products and traders will be presented at weekly press conferences, at monthly press conferences and are available permanently on both the Consumer Protection Office and the Consumer Alliance. We estimate that in February there will also be enough data to produce a code of conduct on the market, which includes a Chamber of Commerce. The market inspectorate will also continue to monitor traders regarding the labelling of products with prices, origin and quality composition of products, and will in particular check the advertising of favourable purchases. The market inspection measures so far have been well-adopted and, last but not least, effective in consumers, as many traders have also corrected mistakes. With this brief review, I would like to point out that anti-inflationary measures taken by the Government are being implemented all the time. We also want to continue them to a greater extent. We are aware that inflation and the irritation of these basic necessities of life also pose problems, particularly for those with the lowest income. Therefore, not only have we used these measures, which I have listed here, but we also want to use some of them, and we have mitigated the consequences with some of the legal changes, and have enabled those with the lowest incomes to increase the net monthly inflow. So much for me. In addition, Mrs Cotmanova, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, said a few words.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u20	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and honourable Members! One of the important government policies is the social inclusion policy, so the government has responded to the average increase in food prices through various measures to prevent the deterioration of the situation and living standards of the people of Slovenia. This topic was addressed in the strategic government world and also in the Economic and Social Council, where the social partners also addressed this topic. The meeting was also attended by the President of the Government. Also next week, the Economic Social Council will address the planned topic of inflation in the coming week. The latest figures from the Statistical Office of Slovenia show that the level of poverty risk in Slovenia is 11.7%, which is among the lowest among the members of the European Union. Only three other countries have data similar to Slovenia. In all other countries, the risk of poverty is much higher. At the same time, it is important that the statistics of the statistical office also show that social transfers have a significant impact on reducing the risk of poverty. For last year, we have data to reduce the number of financial social assistance by 8,000. Despite the decline in the number of recipients of monetary social assistance resulting from higher employment, the Government has taken certain anti-inflation measures in the social field in a timely manner. This is mainly the Protection Supplement Act, the Amendments to the Parental Protection Act and the Family Benefits Act, as well as the Income Act mentioned earlier. At the same time, it is certainly important that the harmonisation of social transfers was carried out in January by 3.6%. As I have already mentioned, the Protection Supplement Act has been adopted, where it has mainly improved the social situation of pensioners. Thus, the security allowance is coordinated twice a year and a certain higher amount is also paid to pensioners who have retired in the former SFRJ republics. The welfare allowance or higher pension will also be granted to widows and the reconciliation of maintenance is arranged for farmers. The total increase will thus be 9%. With the amendment of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefit, the Government increased the child allowance by 8.4% and, if added to the Law on Social Transfers, where children's allowances increased by 3.6%, total children's allowances increased by 12% this year. Similarly, Republic scholarships increased twice, by 3.2% in September 2007 and then by 3.6% in January, a total of 6.8%. Furthermore, through the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Agricultural Markets and Rural Development Agency, the Government has also implemented a project on the distribution of food to the materially disadvantaged since 640 tonnes of food and 2 million litres of milk were distributed last year and 965 tonnes of food and 1 million litres of milk will be distributed this year. In view of the fact that, as already mentioned, the number of recipients of financial assistance decreased by 8,000, the number of unemployed persons was significantly reduced and 69,238 registered in January 2008, the lowest number of unemployed persons in Slovenia alone. Employment is increasing and we are trending, according to recent data by the Employment Service, the number of job needs is increasing, so the number of job vacancies increased in 2006 to 227.934 and in 2007 to 242.927. Since we are already short of domestic workers, we are also increasing quotas for work permits. Just next week, an increase of 24,500 people is foreseen to increase quotas. As employment increases, the contribution of monetary social assistance and the number of recipients of monetary social assistance also decreases. While this is statistical data, the Government has also contributed through measures in the field of legislation that I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u21	Thank you both to the ministers and to the ministers. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, Mr Presečnik will move the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, Mr Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the SLS Group of Members, we have seriously and thoroughly examined the proposals for conclusions and the analysis of the applicants for today's extraordinary meeting. We are familiar with the views and opinions of a number of experts and have re-examined the Government's actions so far. The government has already taken some measures to mitigate the effects of inflation or increase food and energy prices. The Strategic Council for Economic Development forwarded some of its findings and recommendations on inflation to the government and the public last September. First time. The government must lead a countercyclical fiscal policy and continue to reduce the share of public spending. In preparing the budget for the next two years, therefore, all expenditure should be re-analysed. Another time. Within the framework of its powers, the government must pursue a wage policy that will not give rise to additional pressure on price increases. Third time. Care must be taken to increase the competitiveness of all parts of the economy. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the flexibility of the labour market. Because of low unemployment and the needs in some sectors, the number of work permits for non-EU nationals should be increased. The government has taken the following measures to increase competitiveness: to prevent the monopolies of providers in all areas, to reduce entry barriers to new providers in all areas, to simplify concession systems and so on, to prevent the creation of monopolistic structures in existing sectors, to build a positive attitude towards globalisation and foreign investors, to build a competitive knowledge market, to build equality of State incentives for public and private domestic and foreign knowledge providers. When reviewing the causes of inflation, we find in the parliamentary group, or we are convinced that the causes of inflation and possible measures need to be looked at much wider than just to accept the explanation that inflation is responsible for increasing food and energy prices. The SLS Group agrees with those professional circles that believe that we will narrow down opportunities and limit the scope of action by ourselves with a narrow explanation and a view to the causes of inflation. Inflation should be seen primarily more comprehensively. Therefore, we believe that there is a need for real analysis of the causes and the Slovenian inflation to be attributed primarily to three causes. First time. The external reason for rising prices in Slovenia is the rise in food and energy prices in global markets, which we simply need to adapt to. Another time. The adoption of the euro is certainly an important reason. The faster rise in prices in Slovenia is due to the fact that prices before taking over the euro were about one quarter lower than in other euro countries. As long as we had our currency, we could protect this level of prices with a course. Now that we no longer have our currency, a lower price level needs to be adjusted to a higher price level in other countries. This can only happen with higher price increases. The question is how quickly these prices will be offset. There are many questions to be answered in this regard. First, we must seriously assess whether the previous Government and the current one, together with the Bank of Slovenia, have underestimated the problems and consequences of taking over the euro. Third time. High demand allows prices to increase more rapidly for the first and second reasons. There are many reasons for high demand. High indebtedness of the private sector and credit financing of public investment as well as public finances. Public expenditure rises about as fast as gross domestic product and thus contributes to demand. The fact is that in Slovenia there is a huge purchasing power available in euros. In this regard, too, there are many questions that will, of course, need to be answered in the future. Fourth time. The market structure may also be the reason why the known pressure on prices is more easily brought to higher final prices. The higher price acceleration in Slovenia compared to members of the euro area is mainly due to a lack of competition in the production chain: processing: food sales, as the source I refer to the source of the UMAR. The question of today's debate and deciding whether additional measures are needed and what kind of measures are needed is, in our view, hiding in the way in which each of the above-mentioned reasons for inflation is addressed or how all at the same time. In doing so, we would like to stress explicitly that price stability is both the responsibility of the Government, which governs the state policy of measures or spending, as well as the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia must urgently assume its share of the responsibility for price stability. But this is her primary task. The fact is that high prices can also be due to the fact that there is too much money in circulation in Slovenia. Today's extraordinary meeting is set out in the proposals for conclusions and conclusions to be adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly. In view of the above findings, we have the following comments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. First time. Preparation of a specific plan for anti-inflation measures is unnecessary. The government regularly prepares a stability programme to be addressed by the working bodies of the National Assembly, which is also subject to the opinion of the EU Council. Banka Slovenije also issues a report on price stability on a regular basis, so we do not see the need for another stability document. Let the National Assembly hold a thorough debate on the stability programme and on the Bank of Slovenia's price stability report. That should do it. In doing so, we would point out that the Bank of Slovenia report is complementary to the government programme. In our view, it is only together that it gives a more comprehensive view of price stability in Slovenia. Perhaps it is even better to say that the Bank of Slovenia report differs significantly from the government's stability programme. Today's extraordinary meeting is convened by some of the views of the Bank of Slovenia on price stability. Another time. The second proposal to abolish the tax on wages paid immediately is, in line with our commitment, already in adopting amendments to the law on income and tax legislation, and experts believe this is not justified at present. Some experts believe that the Government should insist on phasing out the tax on paid salaries in its programme. The immediate abolition of this tax would, in their view, constitute an additional reduction in taxes, which would, on the one hand, jeopardise the stability of public finances and, on the other hand, would be pro-cyclical, encouraging economic activity at a time when this is not necessary. Third time. With regard to the proposed decision under point 3, we believe that the balance of the state budget must remain within the framework of the Government proposal, which we must allow to be somewhat loose on the expenditure side if we are to take appropriate action, which is what we are discussing today. Fourth time. We do not think we need a call for action in the field of social affairs. The Government and the National Assembly have already adopted certain measures of tax relief and additional social expenditure, and this should be sufficient for the time being. It should be noted, however, that we are aware that these measures are not anti-inflationary but should mitigate the consequences of inflation. As such measures need to be financed so that they are not anti-inflationary, but should mitigate the consequences of inflation, as such measures need to be financed. We must therefore leave it to the Government to assess how and how measures can be further increased so that the issue of additional tax resources does not arise and that the issue of sustainability and stability of public finances will not be raised. Fifth. The decision to strengthen the competitiveness of the non-changing sector could otherwise seem fine. It should be borne in mind, however, that the prices of the exchange sector are currently the most rising since these prices are the fastest to adapt to prices in the euro area. Six. The call on the proposer in point 6 to present the effects of high inflation on employment growth and the level of economic growth in the medium term could even be acceptable, but in our opinion only in the sense that the Government is ordering the preparation of a professional study in non-governmental scientific institutions or experts. We believe that we could better assess the causes and the issue of inflation and its consequences and prepare measures if the Government acquires other views on the issue of inflation and its consequences at the time of the UMAR. It's a week. The decision to report monthly to the Government on anti-inflationary activities is unnecessary in our view. It represents some kind of crisis situation that inflation is a monthly phenomenon and that the effects of anti-inflation measures are visible at the monthly level. In our opinion, it is sufficient that, as already stated, the Government should continue to prepare a stability programme to be regularly addressed by the working bodies of the National Assembly, as well as the Bank of Slovenia's report on price stability on a regular basis. We would add that, according to the profession and in the opinion of our parliamentary group, there is no risk of inflationary spiral in Slovenia or that prices would go wild. Because wild prices must be fueled by a high amount of money in circulation. The common European market, which in general equates prices, is now promoting price growth in Slovenia, where price levels are even lower. If inflation remains above average for some time in Slovenia, for example for three to five years, the effect of the common market in a different direction will start to work sooner or later. The common market will start to block price increases in Slovenia as they move closer to price levels in the euro area. Competition of prices from the euro area and policies of stable prices by the European Central Bank will also keep Slovenian prices at borders. After all, ensuring price stability is one of the economic reasons why we have joined the euro area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u23	Thank you. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, ministers! Since I have already presented in some way the opinion of the Really Group in the context of the time available to the applicants, I will try to be as rational as possible and not repeat everything. We do not deny in the Group that the reasons for high inflation in Slovenia are in some way external. I'm stressing the word "including." The fact is, as I have already said, that the prices of energy in global markets are at significantly higher levels than they were a few years ago. The fact is that food prices have also increased in the global markets due mainly to higher demand from some rapidly developing economies in India and China and some others. And the fact is, probably food will never be as cheap as we used to be. We have also warned about these facts, but at the same time we have also warned that these external shocks are being translated into retail prices significantly more than they are in other countries. And we also expected the government to respond to these facts and prepare some measures. But even today, when we listened to the Minister of Finance, we saw that this was not the case. His performance was the best example of what economic policy should not do. Indeed, no one denies that Slovenia, after entering the euro area with the introduction of the euro, is facing lower real interest rates. The result, as I said earlier, was an increasing debt. The fact is that, as I have already stated before, the current total indebtedness of all entities in the Republic of Slovenia exceeds already EUR 32 billion. That's a lot. If we count the population, then we get to the numbers, over 16,000 euros, which is a lot. Of course, of this guaranteed debt is just over €8 billion, but of course this effect of increasing debt after the introduction of the euro, which, of course, we witnessed also due to declining real interest rates, which was favourable, meant that we had to face additional money emissions in some way. If I simplify, of course Banka Slovenije no longer has monetary sovereignty in the field of Slovenia and cannot directly affect the amount of money in circulation. Now it is due to the increasing indebtedness of Slovenian business banks abroad because of, of course, crediting domestic business and physical entities, resulting in additional money emissions, and in some way it has a similar effect as if you had a sovereign central bank that would itself increase the amount of money in circulation. And this effect was a fact, I do not deny that this is some fact, some external effect that we have faced and I do not acknowledge to the Minister of Finance or to the Minister of Economy. However, it is clear to the Government that it has not responded adequately to these external shocks or effects, with appropriate economic policy and with respect for ladies and gentlemen, if we have done so even when we were in the time before the introduction of the euro when the convergence programme was being prepared and planned, and this has been initiated since the previous Government, a convergence programme has been adopted. If such an easy and irresponsible approach were to be taken, and if the Minister of Finance was then to hide in this National Assembly and said that it and it could not affect that they are external factors, then it would be, a reliable Slovenia today would not be in the euro area. And my observation to the Government is that it has not responded adequately, with appropriate policy and we have always stressed that public financial policy should be restrictive in these favourable economic conditions. We have also warned that countries that have historically experienced problems in the field of public finances in recent years, such as Germany, that these countries have turned high deficits into surpluses and we have what the Minister of Finance has done - to come to the National Assembly and we have seen it, and we have said that we have a surplus, 20, 30 million euro surplus, some statistics. However, it does not state two essential reasons for this surplus, for the first time that it was created, as it did in the Financial Business Diary itself, because it changed the way social transfers were coordinated, and you have created this surplus paradoxically precisely those which inflation has suffered the most in the way that social transfers have not been properly coordinated in the last year, are receiving family, disability pensions and so on, all the different family benefits that fall within the category of social transfers. And the other thing that needs to be highlighted is why this surplus has arisen, because Slovenia is also quite unsuccessful in drawing funds from the European Structural Funds and again this is a negative factor. But statistically, it can prove, because smaller payments are from the state budget, a certain surplus. But now I'm talking about something that's irrelevant. Talking about surplus is just so unrealistic, and the Minister of Finance should know that. It should talk about the structural deficit and nothing has been said in the area of structural deficit. Slovenia still has 1% of the structural deficit today, and this is our observation in the Group of Members that it has not been done enough in this area. When we talk about competition in the internal market, we know that the situation is complicated, the fact is that the leverages were more than used by the state. But it is also true that these measures cannot be carried out overnight, and we do not deny it, but again, I have not heard here from the competent ministers of this Government today - what is the set of measures that they will face with high inflation. We are listening here to a non-stop story about inflation not being such a problem, it is a problem of obvious opposition, and as the President of the Government at the last confidant said it is actually a problem in the media, so today we are hearing that the problem is actually in the opposition because it points to these problems. If the Minister of Finance was performing, he was in a way today that he did not talk about what we had warned him about, but about everything else. He was talking about some other good results. The two other Ministers for the Economy and Social Affairs also spoke about everything else, not in fact the problem that we are facing today, which is the subject of debate today. And if a patient comes to a doctor and says he's having problems, say heart problems, then he expects his doctor to save them. Not that he's gonna say, "That's no problem. Otherwise, you look pretty good. Good-bye." And when we presented the issue today, the Minister of Finance talked about everything else, not our proposals, not what we warned him about. Instead of a structural deficit, he was talking about a statistical surplus and so on. And that is why I would also like to appeal that we continue to try to talk about what is relevant and, above all, as I have said, today is not the intention of anyone to cross, or that additional inflation expectations will be further strengthened. But that we are trying to talk together about the problem and determine whether the conclusions we are proposing in the opposition are true or not. And if they're not, then what are the ones proposed by the government? This would be a reasonable conclusion to today's debate, and in the Group of Members we have indeed also been proposing for this meeting because we want to come to an end with some substantive proposals. So far, this too has to be acknowledged, there are no signs that this inflationary trend will calm down. And as I said before, although the Office of Macroeconomic Analysis, for a few weeks ago, claimed that the spring months would be a sign of inflation relief, we saw that at least in January, inflation was high, despite seasonal clothing and footwear prices, we faced high inflation at an annual level of 6.4%. [[...]] Although there was deflation in this period last year, we have inflation this year, and some food promotions are expected. So we believe that it is right for a debate to be held and for the Government to present a consistent set of measures. No one's saying it's all the government's fault. Of course, the government is responsible for responding appropriately to external shocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. For the introduction, when I saw number 68 of the panellists last week, I couldn't help but ask myself questions about the meaning of this. What brings us to the debate that we are, in fact, all of us talking about, whether we are ready to address the issue of proposing measures to reduce inflation. I wasn't the only one. My group is also asking about the usefulness of this debate, and we have read in the media that someone else in the profession wonders what the meaning and effects of this debate will be if it really lasts as predicted. This does not mean that we are against discussing the causes for bad, for what is bad is trying to find measures to address these causes. The question, of course, is: Is it possible that this makes sense in the sense that we have only sharpened our sensitivity to inflation, because perhaps in the past months we have followed too much non-chalantly, everyone - from the government down below, and is this what excuses the debates in the past and today? Certainly information, awareness, we call this the inflation education process that has been taking place in recent months, but welcome. But if all 68 debaters, without replicas, of course, come up with concrete proposals, and this is likely to happen, they will also hear some of those that would be, so to speak, wrong that would make the situation worse. Surely, if we had 68 concrete proposals, it would be difficult or impossible to implement them, and it would certainly be a mistake: if we were all to perform just to repeat one and the same - one obvious and other defences. That will be true if it turns out that way, media inflation, and we probably don't need that right now. Or maybe it is to someone. This may have been an incentive, one of the incentives for this debate. Some truth is probably that if I quote two, in my judgment, a respected expert, an analyst, that one of us is going to be the only effect, but the effect from the topic of political marketing, and that the other reminds us of that, in fact, is going to say, "Go ahead and have a beer."will be less waste and time and everything else than if we are here so constantly and for a long time to discuss. It is interesting that neither one of them nor the other are exactly the same political gender, in order to make it difficult for them to be able to make such an identical assessment because of their political orientations. However, in the parliamentary group, we believe that the debate will bring something, that today's debate will not lead to any less inflation, that people will not live any better, that no price will be reduced as a result. However, in order to welcome the support of all in Parliament for those government measures that we are still looking forward to, with those that have already been implemented and are expected to go towards reducing inflation, as well as reducing the social risks of those who are most at risk as a result of rising prices of living needs. It should be said that the proponents have proposed a document that should encourage us to look for ways to save inflation, to find even measures, empirical, perhaps concrete, that would help and that in this document we have actually received, they were much more moderate than in the performances that we have heard today. [[...]] Even so, I would have dared to say that what they said in this document was somewhat dissuasive. The most common association of words was, perhaps so, a guess, no apodictic claims, as some of them can be heard today. The fact that they called for a comprehensive, systematic action, to urge that we all be here not only Government but also those others who can do something about it, that is, all social partners and trade unions and employers, and that is probably also an appeal worthy of support. But it's not just their appeal, we all realize that it can't even be the government's fault and that it can't handle everything on its own. The implications of this text are exactly the same. Nothing has been done so far, although it has been noticeable to cities, but not enough and from now on, from this debate forward, from this initiative given by the signatories, only positive results will be considered. Well, that would be hard to attract in the Desus Group. However, that the call for rebalancing is worthwhile, but we agree, but this is not something that would have arisen today or yesterday, that is something that we have been talking about for a while and that is already within the coalition a certain consensus. What we found in this document was, in fact, very much, in the document proposed by the proponents, is very abstract, I would say to cities that it is even non-bullying, but there are at least two claims or two proposals that specify what they are writing about the restriction on electricity prices and the abolition of the pay tax, which also cannot be fully supported in the DeSUS Group. First of all, not because it is not true that it is only now that we start to think about whether these electricity prices and some other areas of the non-changing sector are under the magnifying glass and at least some of the doors are closed here. With regard to the immediate abolition of the tax on paid wages, there would also be some considerations. This, however, would mean much less in the budget. I hope that this would not be at the expense of reducing what kind of social transfers or something else, which could make the picture worse and, inter alia, because of this kind of shock at the same time, as far as revenue in the area of the state budget is concerned, we do not support it. We believe that the measures must be truly integrated, that they must be systematic and systematic and that they must be networked. That there's not just one factor that could radically change. But you have to work constantly, permanently. Even with numerous and smaller steps you can come out of the mystery that we are in. The Committee adopted several different conclusions. The Committee as a parent working body, which I do not fully support in the Group of Members. First, it must be said that these proposed conclusions were probably a reaction to what was evident in the drafter's material and that this reaction was that it could also bear the name of the apology. In short, it was just a wish to show that so far the reaction has been in the right direction, that it has been timely and that something has not actually been done, as they have been urging these conclusions to simply follow what is going on. For mere monitoring, of course, we're not. We are therefore pleased that in the conclusions that have been amended, however, there are also some dimensions that relativise this powerlessness of the Government to take any action and which in some way commits it to act quickly, especially in those areas that most people, i.e. in the social field, will feel the fastest and most painfully when monitoring the situation. That some indicators relating to macroeconomics and to which the Government refers are good, there is probably no doubt about that. Not only do we like to stress it ourselves, but we also recognize it as a foreigner. However, some embarrassment arose here. If we want to talk only about this positive thing that's going on in this area, because I don't know why we wouldn't listen to those estimates that say some good macroeconomic results, I quote, "Positive accident." Or that some of the results just came as some sort of natural emergency, also caused by inflation. Of course, when gross social product increases on the basis of inflation, relative relations can be significantly more beneficial. As some structural parts of consumption have not changed as well as inflation. Did they fall behind? It should be said that the part of the Slovenian population that has been decommissioned has contributed something to this, and that the possibility of monitoring the deterioration of the situation, in particular in the social field, has been hampered. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that most of the causes are known, but we believe that the Government could nevertheless act and call on it to find appropriate instruments that we are also prepared to support. We will not fully support all the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Finance, in particular those adopted by the Committee on Finance, first and second, which mainly speaks about the fact that fiscal policy was not a cause because it would have been more right to write that it was not a major or only cause of some deterioration and we cannot support the work that is talking about how everything was really merely countercyclical and restrictive. The credibility of some other institutions is decreasing with such assessments, which we consider to have come to their estimates by some analytical methods and thus do not simply show them to be at the edge. However, we do not agree with some of the amendments proposed by the proposers of this extraordinary meeting, and let me say that, in particular, with the first and second amendments proposed, we do not agree that some amendments are in fact identical to what the Committee has proposed, to what needs to be rebalanced and to what needs to be done more actively by those bodies that are in charge of creating greater competitiveness, but that some proposals can be supported by a calm spirit, namely that the analysis to be prepared by the Government should be obtained, in more detail, I do not know that today we have received a package of paper on a table that we have not been able to read, perhaps it has already been written in that package, and in particular we can agree with the work that the Government is proposed to react immediately when flows, trends and current events show that it is necessary to respond, particularly in this social area, in the area of social threats. [[...]] Therefore, the debate itself is not inappropriate, we estimate that it will not reduce inflation, that it is right to step up our thinking on how to find measures that will contribute to reducing these inflationary trends and we will contribute our vote to most of the proposed decisions of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as well as to some amendment proposed by the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Good day to you all. I'm glad there's at least as many of us in there as there is of us. They're on the chicken with pineapple in the dining room. I think there are at least a few of us that hurt us that inflation is growing and that anti-inflation measures need to be put in place. The fact is that the standard of living has been reduced by 98% in the last ten years. This means that it is not all the fault of this government that this government has been guilty since 2004. But that thing started a long time ago. In 1992, since then, the case has been regulated in such a way that the legislation has been adapted for those who may have been basing in their pockets money, shares, bonds and those securities that we have received at the time of so-called denationalisation and distribution into equal shares of former social property to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that at that time there was an irregularity, of swine fever, of thievery and of many, I would say, of criminal acts which even the previous authorities had not sanctioned and which the current authorities had not, I hope, begun to sanction and review only recently. The fight against the tycoons certainly means one move forward, and it is true that, because in Slovenia many times there have been a number of specific events, but that I will not involve any company in or that no company will sue me, I will say that it is about repairing the church doors up in heaven when they were ordered by God to repair at St. Peter's and he said: "St. Peter, "stamp" this door so that they will not creak and fall from the "pants". And St. Peter called the Bosnian, and said unto him, Hear, how much would thou count on thee to repair the door?Oh, my God! So the Bosnian says, "300 euros." He says we'll call someone else. And they call the Croats. And he said, "Uh, problem, problem!".. And he's like, "At least 700 euros." Tell St. Peter, let's call the Slovenians to keep this at our firm. And he calls the Slovenian, and there comes an expedition with computers, they count, they count, and they say, "Ten thousand euros." St. Peter looks fat, and he says, "How's 10,000 euros?" "Yes," said Slovenian, "9 000 euros will be distributed, 700 euros will be given to Croatia to keep it quiet and 300 euros to Bosniak to do so." And so it has happened in the Slovenian economy in many cases, and then there is no wonder why inflation and how inflation are at the same time when some are endlessly rich. Some who have become multibillionaires or billionaires in euro from an official in one of the municipalities in Slovenia a few years ago. Where, how, why? As I know, no one in Slovenia has invented so many things as Bill Gates that such wealth could be achieved. That's what you're saying. This wealth needs to be checked. And I expect the current Government to do something in this area and to step on the fingers of some gentlemen who have thus come to the money. There's got to be one thing that needs to be done. The participation of workers in profits is absolutely necessary and it is correct that this law is already under consideration. And this law must be adopted in a swift manner, not some other one that we have adopted, but certainly this law, and the lords must be squeezed not into their little ones. As some merchants look at their little ones - it's obvious. Let's say we sell bread. Sixty to 70% of the margin, gentlemen merchants charge themselves to the price of bread. And when the grain is cut, these gentlemen of the merchants won't say, "Well, my margin will be a little smaller so that the price won't go." No! No! They're going to hit 60.70% of their output raw materials at that price. And I think this is where the government should set maximum margins. If Europe were jumping after all because they were very oriented in the European Union, I would say capitalist and really damn few care what happens to their poorest layers, especially those who do not have enough money to survive in Slovenia. If they were jumping around in the end, they would say, "My Lord! We take care of our citizens, we don't care about Europe." And this is where our government should also draw up certain matters and prepare some submarital acts. After all, only traders have so much money that they do not ask about the price of land when they build new shopping centres all over Slovenia. Every little bit bigger you're gonna get a mall. Why? Because gentlemen on the margins make an awful lot of money. And then when someone wants to pay taxes, of course, money is transferred abroad. And we have some of our tycoons who have money in the Netherlands, and we have some who carried their wealth to the Cayman Islands and so on. Of course, even their yachts there, 30, 40, 50 and more metres large have registered in Croatia, they also pay those fees and so on. In Slovenia, however, we owe it to the head of the population today to be 5 times more indebted than at the time of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. About 16,000 euros per capita. I think that's terrible. And it is high time to do something to solve the problem of high inflation and to prepare certain anti-inflation measures. Of course, we cannot hang everything on Europe, but there are many things to be hanged on Europe, many things to be seen in Europe as a problem within Slovenia and some money from European funds. Why should we Slovenians show ourselves good, good, smart, working and not need anything? Greece has been drawing funds from Europe all the time. Because it is Europe, they have now narrowed it down a little because Europe has financed certain buildings to the end. Therefore, half the houses in Athens do not have a roof, because the construction is not finished and European resources still need to be drawn. We seem to be too stupid for something like this or too honest, because we were used to giving Caesar what is Caesar's and God's, but if there's anything left for our citizens' poor, let them be if they don't steal what's left of them. I think that it is a time for this debate, and I hope that something good will come out of this debate, that this debate will bring some conclusions that have already been drawn up by the parent committee, although I think that certain conclusions of the opposition have also been good and it has not been meaningful for the coalition to reject them. But we'll talk about it. It's not enough time to list individual matters. The debate is general and I think the number that says that about 25% of our citizens are out there somewhere near poverty is a sad, sad number. And on the other hand, where the government should do something. There is talk of a public-private partnership, but this public-private partnership does not live up to the fact that certain public institutions do not allow private individuals to start working in this way and that the country would also have any profits, what profits, and that those who could enter a public-private partnership, which also had matters for the Slovenian population, would say an example of health. No, I don't know why, as some people don't want to, some people want to beat their pockets with the profits of a suspicious origin, some people don't know what they want, some people want to do the worst possible choice or situation so they can point a finger at the elections, and they promise I don't know what. And I just think that we should step together, do something good and solve this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u30	Your Honors are here! Obviously, it is very difficult to come together in this country, especially when the non-participation is the characteristic of individuals coming from the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What is the concern of individual debaters, indeed, is that they are also indicated by their presence in the Chamber, but I would like to stress this one-stop-shop approach. During the introductory discussions today, we have offered assistance to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, to you, government Members, but not to help us ourselves, but to help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the opening presentation, the Minister, to my great surprise, or more to say, all three ministers or two ministers and one minister, so much so that they did not respond with anger, if you do, what are we going to do again? What we are going to do is talk about irritations, because we are talking about social status, because we want to talk about this matter, but not as the only goal, but primarily to encourage the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that, as the only one with scissors and linen in our country, it achieves what the citizens have entrusted to it and what they have authorized it to do in the elections. Therefore, to achieve for every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia a life worthy of every individual. But unfortunately, even in the unconnected members of Lip's Group, we have clearly misjudged that the moment of the government's sobriety under their measures is not yet sufficient for the Government to say: Yes, but now we do step together, let's do something for this country. When I heard the debate earlier, I tried to put myself in the position of some neutral foreign observer of today's debate. So, some of us are talking about a bad situation and an even worse perspective for our country if the issue does not improve within the framework of activities. The government is saying that it is us who are talking about this threat and irritation that are increasing inflationary increases and thus inflationary rates. I will therefore, in the following very short, taxidermy, list the elements which, unfortunately, no one can challenge, not the ministry, not us Members and Members and not citizens. They are, unfortunately, a sad fact. Flats, sale of 2.8%, fuel 4%, electricity 6%, gas 5.3%, remote heating 5%, heating oil 1.7%, rents 2.6%, apartment repairs 1.7%, food 2.6%, non-alcoholic beverages 2.8%, vegetables 6.8%, fruit 4.3%, milk and dairy products 9.7%, sugar 2.2%, fish 2.1%, other drinks 1.9%. I believe that as well as all of you who have looked at yourself, if you have looked at such statistics continued indefinitely and thus spent all of the time, but ladies and ladies, regardless of the speech of the representatives of the candidates of today's meeting, or whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has this fact, and at my assessment or assessment of the Group of Non-Related Members of Lip, we would have to come from these facts, which unfortunately we should not deny, because if we deny these facts, we will lie to ourselves and to our country of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore expected from this title that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will today choose a different strategy, a strategy that will lead to some constructive dialogue, but will only begin and that the final result of this dialogue will be that in our country we will both demonstrate the degree of seriousness in the monetary field, namely, the Bank of Slovenia and the Government with our tax policy and, last but not least, the Government in the form of executives and the National Assembly as legislator, and approach this problem in a manner that is appropriate. Warnings from abroad should already be exposed to Portugal several times today, showing us, in the event of our continued apathy to this question, what lies ahead for us and our citizens. Therefore, from this title, I urge you, all those Members who are today reported to the debate, that we are primarily based on the fact that only in the hundredth, purely in the end, kind of comes from your political conviction or better from the conviction to praise the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regardless of the assessment of the situation. The next fact is that in Slovenia we have 6.4% inflation and anyone will say that this is not worrying in my opinion is not a serious speaker. The fact is that we have a much higher inflation than the average of the European Union, 3.2% and the fact is that the European Central Bank also says that food and the energy of the world market have really affected European inflation, but only 40% of their inflation is 3.2%, which means that only 20% of Slovenia's inflation was affected by the world market situation. What I'm trying to say is that with our unreality, we've all been able to combine inflation into 6.4% to 80%. So, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in my opinion, bears the lion's share of the blame by refusing to admit the situation and today we have found that it does not recognise or attribute to it the seriousness of February 2008. The Minister is in the context of his address, because I was sorry that he did not touch on the reasons for the reference and touched on the content of the proposed conclusions, because this was also the intention of me as the proposer of today's extraordinary meeting, particularly those questions that I will now try to answer on behalf of the Group of Members. The fact is that he raised the issue that the amount of public spending could not be reduced or that, as much as it could be reduced, it had been reduced in the context of the last budget adopted. It's not like that. The fact is that if we divide the budget of the Republic of Slovenia into a single cash and state budget, then we can see with simple mathematics that government spending is, not that it has decreased, but that it has increased from 8.15 billion euros in 2007 to 8.86 billion euros. And if the Minister comes before this National Assembly with a sentence on reducing government spending, which we must be aware of, all macroeconomics are aware that the basis for the reduction of inflation and if the Minister comes here and I say such an untruth, gentlemen and ladies, then this kind of meeting that we have today is really irrelevant, because we are not listening to each other and the Minister or better said, the Government in its entirety, I think, is not taking it seriously. The Minister pointed out that there should be a Member or a Group of Members who would be able to propose, but I think that Mr Vizjak was a means of reducing public spending. At this short moment, as long as the time was spent during my introductory presentation as a proposaler, until that moment I have looked at only a few of the questions that have been sent that have touched on so-called state spending. I came in a moment where I have to tell you, unfortunately, the document is dated 6.9.2007, so a rather new moment that only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with all its services, uses only to travel abroad through the daily work path of a billion, for hotel and restaurant services over half a billion and a half billion, for transport costs. And then let someone who directly implements this budget, which finances all these travels, and when I get an answer, where these trips go, who attends them, and why, ladies and ladies, this is the easiest way to spar within the state administration. During the same period, I also addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to the Lipa Group of unrelated Members, the issue of consumption, state consumption, which touches on the work where the State is the holder of ownership in individual companies. So to a certain extent, 50% of the owners, 60% of the owners and the like. But from this answer, which I will show you in part, follows my assessment of a very sad story. The government, on the one hand, at some declaration level, the minister today and here speaks of how much we are 'asparagus', how much the Government, so-called Slovenian Spring, is trying to reduce its own costs in all areas, direct and indirect. Allow me, from this city, to present only some of the prizes received in addition to salaries by government representatives represented in the bodies of companies whose state has or is to be in 100% shares, majority shares or only smaller shares. Thus, in the company for advice and execution in liquidation, members have, in addition to salaries, other prizes of EUR 12,500, members within Darsa, and no one should say that this is a completely separate story from the country or state budget, each member of the Supervisory Board EUR 5,000. That it is for payment only for a work performance of €15,400 for individual government representatives. That we have companies where the prize is, only the prize, does not pay, 15 000 euros and, of course, those companies that are 100% state-owned, that is, the same country that is run by the government, which is so much concerned about reducing public spending within our country. I think in relation to Telekom that only the Supervisory Committee split in 2006, during the period of the Government, 130 000 euros. Just the board of directors. I have these companies on the 200s, but I will count only a few who are so much in the sky, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a direct representative and agrees with these awards for these people, and, on the other hand, when the same Government comes to the National Assembly, it says how much it is working for the pensioners or how much it is trying to increase the social transfers that I have to say from this city at this moment, Mrs Cotmanova, I think you have made a mistake or I sincerely hope that you have made a mistake, in 2007 there was no coordination in the area of socially disadvantaged. However, there has been an increase in awards, participation in profits and all those people that the same Government, which sits behind my back, has named every so many years, whether in supervisory authorities or in corporate administrations. But before that - the Slovenian steel industry - whether we remember this story a few months ago, the members of the Supervisory Board have a reward of 5,000, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of 6,000 euros. They have a casino within the company where the country has its own shares inside and only lists the companies where the countries have ownership shares. Therefore, they must be under direct control of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To say that earlier, the administration of the Maribor Casino in the year that it seized me, in 2006, even during the period of this Government of ladies and gentlemen, the EUR 137.998 prize. He's not crying. Besides, the pay is still on. To receive a prize of EUR 235,131 at the Portorož Casino. At the casino, at the state firm. In order to have a shareholding in the company, the shareholding company, in which the state also has its ownership stake, has a shareholding in the profits of EUR 75,000 by the supervisory boards. And I won't be too long because I have to say something else. In these three folders are all companies in which the country has its share. Listed are all individuals who receive these fabulous, dreamy meetings. And all appointed by consent, or even directly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government of which the minister had previously said, "How should we "spare"? Let's find a hero who'll tell us what to do. From this moment forward, ladies and gentlemen, here is the first measure of "sparing". I told you before. A little less travel around the world. And further, allow me to raise those questions, which I think are still very important for the continuation. Mrs Cotmanova, the Minister, whom I said earlier that I sincerely hope she was mistaken in her performance, stressed that we have 11.5% of the risk of poverty in Slovenia. Of course, the Minister, number one in the field of work, family, social affairs, forgot to say that this is the data for 2005. And we're in 2008. Madam Secretary, who are you making fun of? Oh, she's not with us. The Minister also operates before the Slovenian public on such sensitive subjects with data from 2005. Then where is this government going? I would like to point out below that we have that statistically poor in Slovenia is every person who receives 466 euros or less. That's from 2005. Because I'm operating on the same data so the minister won't be confused. However, let us not forget that prices rise by more than 6.4% and that reductions in transfers or that social transfers have not been harmonised even once in 2007, but it is clear that in Slovenia we have as many as 47,000 poor children, that in January 2007 we had 16,000 workers with minimum wages, that is, less than €400, and that we are only October, so from January to October this number has grown to 22,000 people in this country, how many households are connected to these individuals. And of course another worrying issue in this area - 200 000 Slovenian pensioners receive less than EUR 400 per month. While the great husband of DeSUS, who always boasts about how much he cares about pensioners, cares about arming Slovenia, as if tomorrow or next month we will enter a new war with no one. But this is the area of social and social impact on macroeconomic movements, or rather on inflation. I would applaud Mrs Cotman from this town, on behalf of the unaffiliated Group of Members of the Lip, if, in all my implementation, she provided us with one sentence and one fact: that she would not allow herself to prevent inflationary pressures from affecting basic wages. But she didn't say it either. And here's the inflation threat to those with the lowest capital power. The following were both ministers, namely Minister Bajuk and Minister Vizjak in a loud voice, both of whom said, "There is no need for this meeting in Slovenia, we are doing very well in Slovenia, we will arrange it. Let go. Trust us." No, no, no. We don't trust this government team in the Lip Group. At the same time, let me point out why we don't trust her. One of the reasons why we don't trust her is because the government comes in day after day with new laws introducing new taxes. In this case, you probably know that at the Ministry of Agriculture they have even proposed a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products, which, for farmers, dairy producers and meat producers under the pretext of promoting this, introduces a re-compulsory membership as a tax for all these people. Ladies and gentlemen. I sincerely hope that at least the conclusions that we have offered you will be accepted by the government and that the government will overlook that mistake, that it must not close its eyes and that inflation within our country will not be corrected on its own, but that we must step together here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. He's quitting. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. According to our Group, the opposition's request to convene this extraordinary meeting is not based on the real causes of inflation. The opposition and its political economists, who are also trying to create new inflation expectations through the media, claim that inflation should have its cause on the part of excessive domestic demand, which is expected to be driven by fiscal policy with too much investment in the country. The economic situation in the current inflation situation is said to be unhealthy and should point to the so-called overheating of the economy. In our parliamentary group, we reject these findings because they are not based on facts or facts or economic indicators. Inflation, which we are witnessing for a good half year, is not the result of increased aggregate demand and therefore not on the demand side, but on the supply side. There were no imbalances in the macroeconomic environment, according to official data from OMAR and the Statistical Office in 2007, when this inflation started to grow. Not to repeat data around extremely large economic growth, on high export growth, on increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which has also brought about a reduction in unemployment due to these favourable conditions, employment increased by 2.3% last year, for example, and unemployment is among the lowest in the EU or in the European Monetary Union, at 4.5%. It is true that with the introduction of the euro we have produced some inflation. It is also true that our stay in this new European space has resulted in the so-called Babssa-Samuelson effect, which could increase our inflation from 0.8 to 1.85 in relation to the euro area. I would also like to support these findings with the statement made by Dr Egon Zakroška, a Slovenian who is in an important professional position in the Federal Reserve in the United States, which stated in January, quote: "This inflation was not entirely unexpected. The takeover of the euro in 2007 has certainly brought about a single increase in all prices. This has been experienced by some countries that have taken over the euro. Inflation is also continuing because Slovenia is growing faster than the older European markets, so it must also have higher inflation than others." If we look at what happened to personal consumption and wage growth. In 2007, private consumption growth in the first three quarters was low, on average 2.3%, and was even lower than on average in 2006, when it was 4%. Personal consumption growth was lower than GDP growth and was consistent with real wage growth in the three quarters, which was 2.5%. Both in the public and private sectors, wage growth has been lagging behind in productivity. This wage movement is certainly the result of the appropriate wage policy achieved by the government in cooperation with the social partners. Therefore, that high GDP growth has not brought about high wage growth and is also usually a sign of overheating the economy. Likewise, the burden on taxpayers, due to income reform, did not lead to higher consumption. And in view of some indications that fiscal policy in our country has been expansive, I must also mention some of the data, or first the conclusion that even fiscal policy was restrictive and countercyclical in 2007 and thus did not contribute to inflation. If we look at some data. We had a surplus until 2006 in the amount of 2007, I apologize, a surplus of 0.1 GDP. Since 2004, government spending has been steadily falling in GDP and decreased by 3.3% by 2007, spending by the wider sector in the country decreased by 2.1% of GDP in 2007 compared to 2006. The real growth in the country's consumption, according to wages and material costs, was only 1.3% in 2007, compared with 4.4% in 2006 and the structural public deficit in 2000 and was the lowest in the last five years. And maybe one more piece of information, the public debt of the country has also decreased to 25.6% of GDP. All these indicators show the anti-cyclical attitude of fiscal policy. It should be stressed that fiscal policy, which generates budgetary surpluses while reducing the share of public expenditure on GDP, and the proportion of public debt in GDP by no economic theory, cannot be the cause of inflation, according to any economic theory. The opposition is speaking, says that the inflationary causes of aggregate demand should be involved in financing the construction of motorways by borrowing Dars and by guaranteeing or guaranteeing the state. Even if the amount of Darsa's guarantees were included hypothetically in the state budget debt in 2007 and thus the apparent higher public debt would still be 0.8% lower than if we had done the same in 2006 when we did not have such inflation. Moreover, if the construction of roads by the State and also the purchase of apartments by the loans of citizens would really cause general or general inflation growth in 2007, it is necessary to ask why the construction prices did not then increase slightly. Then why the energy, why the food? When we are talking about anti-inflationary measures, of course, it is also necessary to mention the area of prices, the only area where the government can directly influence their size, their size. This is a small proportion of prices that are regulated. And if we look at how these prices were moving in this period, we see that they were practically at the same level or they were exceptionally rising, but this was significantly, significantly lower than the rate of inflation. The government has also adopted a plan to regulate regulated prices for 2008 and 2009 in order to know what lies ahead. In the case of measures, excise duties should be mentioned again. This is the only instrument in the government's hands that can at least partially affect not the price of fuel. As inflation started to rise, the government acted to reduce these excise duties and it soon came to a halt at the lowest possible level permitted by the European Union. Therefore, in view of the above, we argue that the causes of inflation are not the demand, as mentioned by those who requested the convening of this meeting, nor by inappropriate or untimely measures taken by the Government, but that the causes of inflation, as I have already said in the introduction, are on the offer side. In January 2008, the US Central Bank and the European Central Bank reported in very similar reports that last year's inflation in the United States and the European Union is due to the supply, I repeat, price shock triggered by the global rise in prices of agricultural products, raw materials and oil. Among agricultural products, the price of cereals contributed the most, and we know about the price trends in last year, when oil from just over $50 for the judge rose almost to $100. So the main reason for rising prices in Slovenia is: rising food prices and oil prices. However, it would be incorrect if the only reasons for raising prices in Slovenia were prescribed for these external reasons. Slovenia also has some internal causes for inflation. As many have found, this domestic shock is due to a solid composition and insufficient competition in the chain, production, processing and trade in food. We are also reminded of this by many domestic experts, such as Dr. Aleš Kuhar, a researcher in the field of economics, the food industry at the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, who warned us in a recent interview: "The European Central Bank has sent a clear message that our trade sector, due to inadequate market composition and lack of competition, has not sufficiently absorbed the price shock of the world food markets, at the end of the line. So the Slovenian situation in food processing and trade is the factor that has led to higher price increases in Slovenia than in other European Union countries. If we look at the food processing industry, it has received inadequate economic policies in transition. When there was a need for restructuring, this restructuring was mainly into strong concentration and this concentration led to a lack of adequate competition within this area. Of course, Slovenia's biggest problem at this time is the concentration of food trade, which has been formed in the last decade. The process also had strong political support at all times. Let us just remember how the former president of the country applauded Mr Jankovic when he devoured all the smaller businesses and, of course, he wished some success for which we feel the consequences today. I'm going to repeat information that many people don't believe. The three largest traders in Slovenia control between 80 and 90 per cent of the market and Mercator's largest trader over 40 per cent, and thus can actually control the complex market, so these big traders exploit their dominant position and small traders in Slovenia are virtually gone. As a result, the charging of the trading margins is imprudent. The traders claim that these are on average around 27% and the processing industry claims that the trade margins are up to 60%. The problem is that traders in the margin do not count from suppliers several times a year practically recovered, forced retrograde discounts and ratings, and if they did a serious analysis of these margins, they would find that trade margins are already around 50% there. Because of the uncompetitive situation of trade in our markets, trade margins do not absorb the shock of rising food prices in the second half of the year, that is to say that our traders have increased the prices of processed food in the food industry by increasing the overall price growth of processed food in the second half of the year and have added some of their incentives to this end. However, due to relative design, the margin has, of course, increased in absolute terms. On the contrary, what the European Commission or the European Central Bank has pointed out is that, contrary to what the European Central Bank or the European Central Bank has noted, in the euro area, retailers have absorbed into the small part of the price rise in the food processing industry, some data have also shown this. In the euro area, the annual price increase for producers was 8.6% in 2007, and only 7% for retailers. On the contrary, in Slovenia, growth in food production or processing in producers was 10.1%, while in retail stores this growth was 15.4%. I think this information is eloquent enough. I could also list a number of measures taken by the Government or we in Parliament to mitigate the effects of inflation, from the amendment of the Income Act, from the increase in the child allowance, from many others, but from the fact that I would also like my colleagues to say something further, I will cut these things a little short. So, I've already mentioned some concrete measures by the government. As for the opposition, however, I must say that, unfortunately for some measures, we have not heard concrete measures, the only concrete measure in fact was to slow down the construction of motorways, because this accelerated construction supported by this Government leads to an increase in demand and overheating of the economy. But unfortunately, it would hurt again, because roads or motorways are not exactly in those less developed remote areas, it would be those who are doing so to politicians who, days ago, have rejected provincial legislation without any shame or bad news. The applicants indicated that they had been pointing out inflation problems for a year. If we sincerely want to help in this area, I wonder why we have an extraordinary meeting after a year. Why didn't you propose an extraordinary meeting where you could present measures to find solutions earlier? That's the first one. Second. If you have solutions, if you have the will, if this Government is really so bad, then I don't know why you didn't when Prime Minister Janez Janša offered this opportunity to take responsibility for improving the position in Slovenia, colleague Anderlič. [[....]] Why didn't you take it then? Either you've been bluffing or you don't have a solution or your political account hasn't expired and you've got some calculation that it's still better for you than for you to be directly at impact and assume responsibility and responsibility for this country. Therefore, we do not agree with the conclusion that, as the opposition claims, this government or this coalition has not taken appropriate and timely measures. But we are aware that the fight against inflation is indeed a constant task, and we will also fight in the future to tame this beast. However, as far as the conclusion of today's meeting is concerned, and in view of this passive role of the opposition on concrete proposals, we do not think that this meeting will bring any special improvements. And it'll probably hold what some famous economist wrote in one of the journals today, that it's really better to go for a beer, because the inflation session can't help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, I will make a procedural proposal. See, the opposition parliamentary groups have proposed an extraordinary meeting on inflation. It is a minimum of good taste, civil and political hygiene that, during the presentation of the views of the other parties, at least the representatives of these parties will sit in the Chamber. [[Objection in the hall.]] I do not see any of the Zares Group here, from the Slovenian National Party among the active there is no one. As a result, it must be said that they humiliate citizens and citizens with such a relationship. These are mostly people, Members for whom the former president of the LDS government, Mr Drnovšek, said, "they would have killed each other without me". And I hope that Squeakle, Rob, Gantar, Shirca, Gulic, Gaber don't kill each other now. I'm worried about a way out. And, Mr President, if the applicants of this matter do not already wish to participate, then I suggest that you invite them to participate, or either cancel the meeting and conclude it, because the proposal for this meeting was meant to be unserious and unsavoury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Comrade Jerovšek, I know that you also know that it is the right of every Member to participate in the meetings of the National Assembly, to examine the quorum only at the time of the vote, as stipulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you, inter alia, have adopted. We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Dusan Kumer. Here you go. [[The ad in the hall.]] You have the word, Mr Dusan Kumer, I have appointed you first. I've already named you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! I cannot help but point out that, in view of this previous discussion, but not only in previous discussions but also in some discussions, I have made two remarks to the debate so far. The first observation is that it is evident that many people today have read this contribution in one of the daily newspapers and that they have also appeared in this room at the moment of drinking a glass of beer. Otherwise, a word such as non-bullying views such as "chaining" would not be spoken, and so on, not to mention. I have listened very well to today's debates, and the second observation is that if I listen to representatives of the government, all three ministers and coalition MPs so far in the debate, it would seem somehow that our inflation is represented by the government and these coalition MPs as if it were some kind of mortuary on the lawn. You have a lot of them today. It looks very nice. It's a nice, clean piece of land. That he has one small flaw. It's a so-called dead earth. In the spring it grows in this pile, very early in the spring, just a young recruit and nothing else. And so if you can talk so beautifully about inflation in our country, it would be good to ask people about it, too, to ask citizens who live every day from this inflation. Whether this inflation is as beautiful for them and whether they really live better, as you say and say today. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have signed a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Council on inflation because we have repeatedly called on the Government over the past year, even through parliamentary questions, that inflation is a problem where it is not possible only to wait for it to disappear from itself, but it is necessary to actively engage in its demise. And today there is no doubt that the economic and political problem is the number one inflation in Slovenia. A good half a year ago, the government and the coalition majority in this National Assembly refused to admit it. She was even less willing to talk openly about it in this hall. At least four times, the debate initiative was put through the parliamentary questions and this initiative was always rejected by the coalition majority by a voter. This is all the answers you say we have not proposed in the last year of discussion and discussion on inflation. It is therefore quite surprising that these days and today when coalition groups report that a special meeting of the National Council on Inflation is still not necessary and that it is only a matter of gathering cheap political points by the opposition. In particular, it is a funny and unrealistic warning that the session should not be because inflation has been growing since last April and this meeting has been convened too late. This is from the press conference of the largest parliamentary group in this National Assembly. Yes, what would you like to discuss and decide in the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, especially the coalitions? Just about your positions? About the wages? Awards? To political tourism and similar things that have already been said today? Only problems affecting a large number of citizens and citizens would not be discussed. And that's what we're talking about today. Inflation and its consequences are the problems and burdens felt and felt every day by the greatest number of people. Therefore, with the cheap messages and statements we have heard today, food and fuel prices are the main causes of inflation, in such situations it is simply impossible for us to explain inflation, as the Government does and as you do Members of the ruling coalition. Because prices are also rising in other markets, not only in those that are not final, as shown by the index of prices of industrial products last year, which was 106.8, which is higher than in the market for living. Thus, the Slovenian economy is more pervasive with these inflationary imbalances than you are trying to show. It is also true that the average salary of €820 is statistically high, but on the other hand two thirds of the employees receive less than that average salary and that inflation is higher than 6%. That last year's food was irritable by more than 10%. Another fact that no statistics can soften, nor do we hear the most about high economic growth. Social Democrats are convinced that in this mandate, not just last year, a number of decisions have been taken that have further spread the scissors between the poor and the rich. Last week or 14 days ago, we discussed in broad terms how some of the target groups were deprived of their legal rights for two years. That is why the rapid recovery of social consciousness in people over the past year has caused more than obvious inflation in this last year. Therefore, we cannot be surprised if people are not satisfied with the ruling policy, even though I am and there, to fix wages, to give higher child allowances, to sell cheap shares to people, to boast of high economic growth or to make great efforts to fight the tycoon and so on. Because the fact and image of the social situation is all more than ideal. And steps forward, on high economic growth and even favourable macroeconomic indicators, which the Government and the coalition so likes to talk about when it advocates high inflation and the difficult social situation of those who receive the lowest income. Even more, as early as October 2007, the President of the Government said to one of the questions sent, quote: "Looking at the macroeconomic indicators, wages are not only nominal but also real growth, which means that the standard is not lagging, it is increasing that the number of those who receive minimum wages is falling and the number of those who live below the poverty threshold. During the years of this mandate, the government reduced public spending by practically 3%. There was no saving in the past. All of this has affected better management conditions as well as a higher standard for people. Statistics clearly show, concludes the Prime Minister of the Government, that the situation is improving. End of quote. In short, if this were true, that the situation was improving and that the standard of people was increasing, in short, that it was the growth of the welfare of people, that we were living in a golden age, as one of the ministers said six months ago, then today this meeting would not really be necessary. Moreover, it must be made clear that inflation is not the fault of workers or traders, but that it is the responsibility of the Government to take on most of the responsibility and to look at the absurdity, so the Government has been asking those who are least responsible for this inflation in recent months, so that workers do not respond to inflation with demands for salary increases or higher wages. If that is what workers are asked to do, then let them do something where they can, that the family budgets will not have to pay more daily for services than they are in the so-called controlled price package, because the government can intervene with its actions. I have talked about this several times over the last three years, and about one area in electricity at all, let me illustrate. The Bank of Slovenia, the price of electricity already on average in the European Union, is an important concern. I am also telling the Minister of Economy, who said a year ago that I am mixing apples and pears, but today he enjoys the juices of forest fruits so that I will not forget. There are also important measures in the already announced requirements for increasing the prices of certain municipal and public services. It is about kindergartens, gas, remote heating, which will once again affect the widest circle of people, especially those with the lowest income. It is necessary to insist in these companies on cost management and business efficiency, so this is not an administrative retention of prices, but rather a stricter and more decisive step in monitoring the effectiveness of financial plans and so on. It is not possible, as is the case now, for all these shortcomings to be passed on to consumers of these services in terms of liquidity in these companies. I claim and can also prove with numbers and I have also proved through three parliamentary questions that this efficiency is within the power distribution companies and thus the savings do not show, and here the Government has instruments where it can act. Last but not least, to the high wages and rewards they share, which today have also been a lot of talk. In short, when we talk about inflation not only about energy and food prices, it is a confusing excuse that inflation is simply a consequence of the relationship between traders and the price of food and fuel in global markets. It is only an alibi that the state, reads the government, does nothing or hardly does anything. And not only because it does nothing and because it is satisfied only with favourable macro data and the results of the scissors of social differentiation open wide. On one side comes a rich high class, which also requires political power. And he gets it from this same government nomenclature. On the other hand, we have an increasing number of lower layers that fight daily for existence. So the main reason for people's discontent is not just the inflation figures we're talking about here today. Economic growth, much of which has nothing, gets nothing in its pocket and so on. People are particularly upset by the differences that have arisen as a result of the distribution of generated income in the past years of transition, which are larger from day to day. So, with numbers, there are even more important different social relations between people who are created and produced by these numbers, which are broken, social relations, human relations, and thus there is no rise in the price of oil and grain on the world market. This is our internal exclusive Slovenian problem, which we do not pay enough attention to. However, it is one of the fundamental preconditions for a successful and effective social dialogue between all the social partners if we really want to mitigate the inflation situation and which the government also refers to. Despite the fact that the government has already proposed some measures, which are not wrong, but we are only putting out the consequences of inflation, but we are not dealing with the causes that are also at home with us. We propose that the government prepare a thorough and comprehensive anti-inflation programme. Some of the instructions were also given at the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Bank of Slovenia. Let me summarize one of those that I think is important. These are the economic and social objectives of the European Community, including the promotion of sustainable and non-inflationary economic growth. So it is a maastricht, inflation criteria that need to be reintroduced into the focus of individual economic policies in Slovenia. The objective of sustainable and non-inflationary economic growth requires that we return to the potential growth framework, which is also the basic scenario for this year in the Eurosystem, is 2008. In current productivity trends, all the impacts of technological progress as well as the short-term effects of the economic cycle are reflected in the long-term effects of technological progress. The wage policy, which we are talking about a lot, should be focused on the trend in productivity trends and the profit-sharing agreement. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we are applying the entire mandate to the Government with regard to the law on the sharing of this profit to employees. With the entry into the Eurosystem, wage differentials between productivity trends in Slovenia and the Eurosystem have also become important. Taking these differences into account, it would be appropriate to establish a wage growth rate consistent with the maintenance of price stability. This would contribute to maintaining and strengthening cost competitiveness. It would be useful to discuss the non-inflationary attitude of policies with the social partners. But I said what a prerequisite is that they can discuss this constructively and seriously with their partners. And one more thing. With regard to the proposal to cool down primarily through Dars, it is not true that this means slowing down road construction, I stress once again, is not true. We suggest, however, that we replace the leased loans at least to a certain extent with domestic savings, which may come from the budget from where they used to be. When deciding to step up investment largely in roads, this decision is carried out by the government and these coalitions with innovation, so that we no longer finance them from savings in the state budget and the petrol toll, but with loans, debt resulting in inflationary surpluses in the budget, or as the minister likes to say, after many years of previous governments, we have a balanced budget for the first time. Therefore, it can be one of the more effective measures to curb this inflationary spiral if the Government gives up this innovation and if it finds budgetary expenditure for roads while maintaining a balanced budget. At that time, we will be able to speak and compare it with past times. Let me get this straight. If, six months ago, the President of the Government had said, I quote: "that, as far as these constant indications are concerned, how this Government is now doing something that will harm the future, I would like to see the indications finally supported by some credible figures. What we have now heard is about the same as in some secret document, now it is no longer secret because the Bank of Slovenia has withdrawn the confidentiality mark from this material that it is a virtually incredible scenario. However, such insinuation is used for political accounting." End of quote. Yeah, it didn't take long and the practically incredible scenario that's been secret for a long time has got its realisation. The figures are also quite reliable, as the inflation rate remained at a magical 6% annual level in January, prices rose by 5.6% in 2007, the annual rate of increase in processed food prices was 11% and so on and so on, and the forecasts are that things will not be calmed so quickly in the Social Democrats Group we expect today's debate to help us not all meet with the view that everything is done and that nothing can be done. We expect the Government to see a concrete draft of measures, which will be primarily non-inflationary, before this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Školč, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In particular, I wanted to protest the abuse that our fellow Member, Mr Jerovšek, had afforded when he pointed his finger at the hall and said that there were no those who demanded an inflation debate. This has certainly been intended for those who are accompanying the meeting, otherwise I must say that most of those who are participating in the debate and who have signed it here and are registered to the word, Mr Jerovška has been gone for more than two hours, because he was at a large lunch and he is likely, I will say blood is now primarily involved in the digestion and he is also not here at this time, his colleagues who have all applied in a row to the debate are also not here, but when you later monitor how they deal with us, you will feel as if they listen to each word separately. I apologize to all who are here, but these types of manoeuvres that Mr Jerovšek has afforded are also necessary for such comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u39	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by fellow Member Milan Petek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u40	Thank you very much to all who are here, Minister Bajuk, to your colleagues, to the chairman for his words. Four hours and three-quarters of our session, the proponents said, the government said, the representatives of the parliamentary groups were still speaking, and it is obvious that those who doubted that we have something to say and I believe that audiences and listeners also have something to listen to and purpose, at least according to our opinion, this session has already been achieved in some way. The initiative for an extraordinary meeting of inflation with a view to solving the problem of high inflation in Slovenia and, of course, with the hope of common definitions for anti-inflation measures, is indeed ours, the LDS. However, I stress that it is also invested in the National Assembly, supported together with all the opposition parties. And after a month of investment, we all stand firm together. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we assess this, we have said several times that the government has come too late to recognize the problems of high inflation, reacts with all its actions since last June, with all its statements from the Prime Minister, and especially to Minister Bajuk underestimating this problem and cannot convince us of what it is trying to prove to the public that it has responded in time. It is true that it has, in the last month, taken measures to mitigate the effects of high inflation, but has not yet prepared anti-inflation measures, i.e. measures that are mitigating rather than anti-inflation measures. It is also true that the Office for the Protection of Competition has recently awakened from its winter sleep. For now, we do not see that, or to be particularly successful, it is acting in a confused, unconsistent way and currently looks more like a government target than a serious authority. That is why, and because of all the above, we must publicly express our dissatisfaction in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia with the government's actions on the initiative of opposition parties to convene the National Assembly on the issue of inflation. The government would be expected to prepare anti-inflation measures for the purpose of an extraordinary meeting and, of course, due to the real situation in the Slovenian economy and society. However, it is obvious that in fact it is still being ignorant of the opposition, as if it were a sin or a sin to draw the opposition's attention to the problem of high inflation. I believe that the reaction would have been different if this conclusion had been drawn within the coalition. It is as if these same people have forgotten in three years what some coalition parties, of course, at the time, expected from the rulings, most of the smaller claims they have applied at various meetings, such as today's request and today's expectation. And with such a relationship, it acts ignorantly also to all experts and institutions who have warned about the problem and act ignorantly to all citizens who experience inflation and also feel it on their own. At the beginning of today's session, I was thinking that perhaps today's presence of three ministers at the meeting was just a sign that the government had begun to be aware of the responsibility for the state of the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately for them, or the departure of two ministers, it appears that they have come here only to advertise their own referendums, their own labs. But not to listen to comments, observations, findings, actions, proposals, conclusions and, of course, to bring them to life. All of this, therefore, raises doubts about the sincerity of their participation. On the contrary, as they expected in the coalition, our joint initiative proved even more justified. The inflation trend continued and, at the time of the request for a reference, when the annual inflation rate was 5.6% this month, reached 6.4%, most of all in the European Union. And if you have not, and if you have not believed, I would like to stress to us in Slovenia what Commissioner Almunia has highlighted in his report yesterday. In many media there was "The main problem with Slovenia is inflation." Not to me, but Mr. Almunia said so. With regard to the immediate abolition of the tax, which is one of the applications or proposals in the conclusions, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we fully agree with the position of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Kranjec, who supports the abolition of the tax on paid salaries and also with the vice-president Rant, that when the tax on paid salaries is abolished, it is, of course, proportionately, necessary to reduce public financial expenditure. For this reason, this Decision is linked to the conclusion that the Government is immediately preparing a rebalancing of the state budget in accordance with the restrictive fiscal policy and anti-inflationary activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which would thus reduce the structural deficit. However, when proposing to abolish the tax on paid wages, let us remind ourselves once again that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has proposed the abolition of this tax since 2007. Such a measure would significantly reduce the pressure on price growth. So today it shows that the initiative was on the spot. It appears, therefore, that the inflation budget or budget has been inflated and the implementation of this proposal would have shown that such a level of budgetary spending could be sustained. Instead of maintaining price stability by abolishing the tax on paid wages, the government preferred to relieve individuals by amending the Income Act. And there's this change. At least the wealth doesn't actually bring anything. The measure is just a cosmetic correction that creates a more populist effect than a real burden on family budgets. With regard to the interpretation of the origin of inflation, let us remind ourselves that some coalition parties, i.e. only part, namely the SDS, NSI and SLS, have been interpreting and writing this in their proposal of their conclusions and have now voted on it, rather than voting on the Finance Board, that is to say that most of the reasons for such high inflation of an external nature are. Then these conclusions are written in 81% impact on inflationary acceleration. Thus, such high inflation is of an external nature and as a result of rising food prices, oil prices and non-competitive trade activities. And how typical of this government, for this finance minister, for this coalition. In doing so, it recognises neither the calculations nor the proposals of the highest monetary authority in Slovenia, namely, the Bank of Slovenia, which, in its opinion or diagrams obtained at the meeting of the Finance Committee, has clearly demonstrated that in the analysis of inflation it is always necessary to look at the underlying inflation, is said to be inflation without seasonal factors such as food and energy. Basic inflation is an important indicator of long-term inflation used by both the US and the European Central Bank. At this point, the Bank of Slovenia presented to our committee the movement of basic inflation, or in this case inflation without energy, food, alcohol, tobacco. From this act, this document clearly shows that inflation began to increase significantly in 2007 compared to 2005 and 2006 without these influential elements. Based on this analysis, the coalition's claim that only external reasons and the structure of the market in Slovenia contributed to the high inflation that we feel today, and so seriously, at least some, we are considering. With regard to the impact of inflation on fiscal policy, we can also reject Minister Bajuk's claim; today he has been vehemently explaining it before all of us; that fiscal policy has not affected inflation. Changes in excise duties on tobacco products have an undeniable impact on inflation. We all know that the analysis shows that it had a rate of 0.261% in the rise of this inflation. So it affected the inflation. The tax reform has also increased the effective decision of companies by abolishing tax relief on corporate incomes, since companies have made a higher decision on end-users, at least in our opinion, the tax reform has had an indirect impact on inflation. Of course, changes in income have also affected inflation, and some Bajuk’s claims have been rejected in this way. Clearly, we must not forget the already well-known creativity of the accounts of the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, which has led to the financing of the construction of highways by way of debt and almost nothing from the budget. This has already been said today. I won't say it again. The fact is that in our discussions we have pointed out this, and the fact is that we have also pointed out that it would be possible to judge, not slow down, we have been misinterpreted, so to say whether some of the funds are re-involved from the budget and whether there are other ways of financing state-owned or motorways that do not actually encourage inflation and thus relieve these effects. The impact of such financing on inflation is clearly calculated 3 times higher than in previous years. He also confirmed our claim by the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Kranjec, who said that inflation was influenced by an observational fiscal policy. We read Work of 13.2.2008, we did not invent it, but it was argued by Dr. Kranjc, and this exploratory fiscal policy had an impact on overheating the economy. Inadequate fiscal policy was also pointed out last year by representatives of the European Central Bank. Remember the Governor of Banka Slovenije, the International Monetary Fund, the Government Strategic Council, domestic economists, individuals, parliamentarians and others. The International Monetary Fund and the Bank of Slovenia also point to the lack of financial fiscal policy this year, as in 2008 Slovenia is increasing the structural deficit. However, for anti-inflation activities, they should act the other way around. We should create a structural surplus. Such a fiscal policy, described, and governments only shed fire on such high inflation. In its assessment of the Stability Programme on 13.2.2008, the European Commission gave an opinion on the deterioration of the structural deficit in 2008. In their view, the deterioration of the structural deficit is cyclical, which is not in line with the Stability and Growth Pact adopted. In the European Commission's view, fiscal position should be tightened in the light of current inflationary pressures. That is to say, even according to the European Commission yesterday, fiscal policy is working wrong with this high inflation. We also believe in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that there has been a very problematic increase in electricity prices, which began prior to the liberalisation of the electricity market. The government received an increase of 5.5% just prior to the opening of the market or the abolition of electricity price controls. However, the final effects on prices at the liberalisation of the electricity market in Slovenia are still largely uncertain. The increase in electricity prices by 6% from 1 January 2008 is further increasing uncertainty. The increase in electricity prices also increases the cost of business, increases the cost of operation of municipal communities or municipal authorities, i.e. education, educational institutions, i.e. public consumers, like everyone on the market. All of this increases the pressure on price increases. It is true that the government has reduced this year's grid supplement, which means that electricity prices will increase by 4% instead of 6%. If there is no further increase, the increase in electricity price will therefore continue to be four per cent higher than the increase in electricity prices in 2006, 2.3 per cent. However, the government could prevent an increase in electricity prices at all, as we know that the country still owns 80% of electricity distribution companies and all conclusions, all measures, all incentives are still indirectly in the government and government domain. Whether all previous statements point not to very substantive, very competent opinions that the Government should take seriously and act, but not to scrupulously defend its views, taking no account of anyone, except itself and the Members of the Committee on Finance without scrupulous application of decisions that do not give rise to any implementation, enforcement, pardon, but sound like the EPP of the Government or the Government. That is why we have tabled amendments to the National Assembly to the proposed decisions, which are significantly more objective in terms of the state and measures in the field of inflation, and we hope that the National Assembly will support them. If, even after today's meeting, the Government does not do anything against high inflation, that the Government will not, in fact, show by any measure it understands and believes that it also trusts the opposition and that it is also given the opportunity to propose measures, thinks about it and participates in it, then it will be "evil" under the slogans, because we expect them to be labeled by the zealous supporters of the government, it will likely give birth to thinking whether this government may not do so on purpose, because it has realized that there is no possibility of continuing its mandate and has decided to sufficiently corrupt the situation of the next government and thus make it difficult to rule to return to power in 2012. We hope that this is not the case and that anaemia is more due to ignorance and irresponsibility than previously said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! To begin with, I would like to say that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia they did not propose the abolition of the tax on paid salaries in 2007 but in 2005. However, they forgot to propose this in 2004, for they also introduced this tax. In the New Slovenia Group, we are confident that we will remember in Slovenia in 2007 according to data that deviates considerably from long-term averages. We have seen very high economic growth, the best indicators in the labour market after self-employment and also high export growth. In New Slovenia, we believe that the only macroeconomic problem in the past year has been inflation, which is a broader, global, European and Slovenian problem, and in our opinion it stems from a key factor of high economic growth that is detected throughout the global economy. As a result of high economic growth, there is a high demand for key raw materials, food and other important products for life, which undoubtedly affects the high prices of these products. As far as Slovenia is concerned, the issue is particularly pressing in our opinion, because we have fallen into inflation at the moment when we took over the euro economically and also fully opened up to the world. According to other members of the euro area, our inflation baselines were significantly lower, and in 2007 we entered 2.8% of inflation, which is why our inflation in the euro area is still relatively high. In addition, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that there is still a lack of competition on our market, that some entities act monopolistically and that their exclusive goal is only to maximize their profits. In Novi Slovenija, we are convinced that the main reasons for inflation are the following, the price of oil and other energy products on the world market, which increased strongly in 2007 due to limited supply and high demand. The price of oil is certainly also strongly influenced by the volatile political situation in some key oil producers, as well as by some of the natural conditions that have contributed to the reduction of the consumption. According to the New Slovenia Group, the main problem for relatively high inflation is the price of food on the world market and especially in Slovenia. It is necessary to know that in Slovenia food production is expensive because of the large fragmentation of agricultural areas and also because of the fragmentation of agricultural producers. Due to relatively high costs, European prices will be too low for our farmers, as some products already show, such as peaches or wheat. In Slovenia we also have a poorly connected food processing industry, which, despite the need for integration due to different local interests in particular, is failing, we are thinking mainly of a large number of dairy plants, meat processing plants and other food processors who have large overheads and poor marketing due to fragmentation. As the last in the chain between manufacturers and consumers, merchants appear who, due to better organisation and to a partially monopolistic position, the first two are skillfully exploiting and cutting off far-reaching pieces of bread. In Novi Slovenija we believe that we have a lot of hard work ahead of us in Slovenia in the area of production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. The third important element in which we have high inflation in Slovenia and probably higher economic growth is Slovenia's gross external debt. With the entry into the EU, and especially with the entry into the euro area, the capital flow has completely eased and the European area has also completely eased the capital flow and also the risks arising from the bankruptcy differences due to the low currency. Our companies, and in particular our business banks, owed themselves abroad due to low interest rates and favourable conditions. Here, too, I would also like to explain the often made statements made by the Social Democrats and their President, Mr Pahor, who often want to show the country's gross external debt as a public debt or as a debt to which the government can influence and for which the government is to blame, which is not the case. The country's gross external debt is the debt that all entities of one country make abroad, in the case of Slovenia, our government. From the state level, only 10% of this debt is contributed by the circus and about 10% is contributed by the Bank of Slovenia; everything else is a matter of other entities. It may be interesting to say that in our case more than 45% of gross external debt is contributed by business banks and the circus by 22% of economic operators. Once again, the country and Banka Slovenije only received 20% of gross external debt. The introduction of the euro in January 2007 was certainly influenced by a few months' delay in raising prices. In particular, in the case of low-priced products, due to rounding and also to the moment of transition to the second currency, a number of users also used the introduction of the euro to raise prices. The relatively high inflation also raises the question of how guilty the government is. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that not much, especially for the following reasons. Public spending in Slovenia has been declining in recent years, especially in the years 2004 to 2007, when it fell by more than 3% of GDP and represents only 43% of GDP, which is a remarkable achievement, especially given that all cash flows belonging to public consumption have had a positive balance, which has not happened in the past. This is where we think mainly of the pension and health allowance. It also amounts to only 25.6% of GDP in 2007, which is 2% less than in 2004, and significantly less than the Maastricht criteria allow for 60% of GDP. The projected budget deficit for 2007 was planned at 0.6% of GDP, which is less than we promised in the Stability Pact for 2009. However, the latest data provided by the Ministry of Finance show around €35 million in surplus, which should also have a positive impact on inflation in normal conditions. The government acted as a good host even when it came to public sector wages and even when it came to raising those prices that were still under government control. Nevertheless, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the Government can contribute to reducing inflation through the following activities; it restricts wage growth in the public sector; it promotes free competition in particular in sectors where prices are the most growing and prevents cartel arrangements and monopolies; it closely controls price changes; it strengthens the role of the Slovenian Consumers' Union and the media, which warns about inflation reasons and prepares a budget rebalance that will cover all those changes resulting from the amended legislation. As a result of inflation, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, has also adopted a number of legislative amendments that will improve the situation of those most affected by inflation. That is, we have amended the income legislation which introduces for those who have the lowest wages an additional €2,000 and for those up to €9,000 at the annual level, which means that they will receive an additional net income of €320 and €160 at the annual level. For the state budget, this means less revenue for EUR 38 million. Children’s allowances increased 8.4%, and the Protection Supplement Act changed. As a result of the rise in the public sector, inflation levels have increased by around €35 million. As long as we confirm the Law on subsidised student diet for the school year 2008-2009, an additional EUR 16 million will be needed in the 2008 budget rebalancing. This law will bring an additional €470 to every student on an annual basis, which is even more important, as well as a healthy diet. It is also often asked how changes in wages, income and other transfers will affect inflation. In New Slovenia, we believe that there should be no additional reason for inflation, as the budget balance will reduce other budgetary expenditure by at least the same amount. In short, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that inflation is primarily due to external and only to a lesser degree to domestic causes. We believe that the Government is not the one who would have a significant impact on price growth with tax or any other policy. We also believe that traders are the ones who could make a substantial contribution to price sustainability. Again, our customers who have returned to their homes are being set aside for lower purchases abroad. The best neighbour, after some price analyses, is also the dearest neighbor, which can also be quite problematic for a trader in the future and will have to do something. As far as the proposed proposals are concerned, we do not support them in Novi Slovenija, but we will support the conclusions adopted by the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word Dr. Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. In his introductory presentation, Dr. Bajuk, who is unfortunately not here, outlined the matter and presented it in a way that I am convinced that many people have become tired of the thought and wondered whether we even have inflation. The numbers show that we have it, and even worse, of course, the present life shows that we have it. Then there's the mag. Visak surprised many by his quoting recognized experts, not former ministers. Now, I'm a little confused, I have to admit. Whether all ministers are unprofessional, I'm sure that's not what I'd like. I expect people who are experts to come to the government. But then it turns out that as soon as they join the government, they forget all their expertise and are no longer valuable in the field of expertise if he denies the opinion of any former minister as a possible professional reference. I quote this because it gives me worry about whether our country is run by a non-professional government and then maybe that's why we need to talk about inflation here today and how to prevent it. However, unlike the Minister of Finance, I will not return to the year 2000 and perhaps back. More importantly, what to do now is how to take further action to stop this inflationary spiral and not have the biggest inflation in the euro area of the European Union. That's a sad fact. This is a fact, and despite all external influences, despite the fact that other countries also have higher food prices, energy sources, this has somehow been reflected to the highest extent in us. Things can be very simple. Look, we can learn a lot from nature, we can learn a lot from a healthy farm of minds, because farmers are the ones most closely connected with nature. And every good farmer knows that it's not enough to put potatoes in a pile if I paraphrase the transfer of money from one cup to another, from pocket to pocket, but it's necessary to store something for sowing every summer and then plant it and from what grows up, then we can live. And it's important that we put more aside at the right heights, and it's important that we don't eat more than it grows. That's the truth. And unfortunately, this has not happened in our budget - we have eaten more than has grown. Of course, numbers can speak one way or another. We have heard that for the first time this year, there is no deficit in the state budget, but there is a surplus. Yes, but at the same time let us forget to say that this is a surplus of the state budget, which is not burdened with much higher credit. €554 million of credit is out of this state budget this year, and on the other hand we are boasting 20 million, perhaps 30 million surplus. We've heard of highway construction. No, there is no way we can stop it now, not when there are areas that are objectively needed by these motorways and for which it would be better if we got them earlier, since each such link is also a very important generator of faster development. But we have to deal with the way these highways are financed. For how they were financed from now on: with loans as much as objectively could be expected to recover from tolls and loans, the balance had to be provided in the budget. And these funds in the budget, if they were intended for roads, were not intended for a second use, were not intended for what we would eat if we returned to a healthy farm of brains. Even the good master in his budget knows that first out of the amount of money he can give away what is necessary for the bills and then what is left can be spent. Unfortunately, we behaved a little differently. First we spent something, now that we have to pay the bills, we'll borrow it. This reminds me of those farmers who sell one field every year to buy potatoes for the next crop. And certainly this is an important cause of inflation, and certainly, if only at this level we behave more cost-effectively, inflation would be lower. We can also agree that more expensive food is the reason for inflation, but, on the other hand, it is also necessary to provide an efficient country and, on the other hand, consumption needs to be reduced. And where to reduce consumption? Not in such banal matters, to buy a business car without a armrest and save 100 euros there. It's irrelevant. Savings should be done where savings can be made! Let's not talk about commissions for various purchases of military equipment that we have now seen to avoid, because the budget rebalance has shown this; to save ourselves in another way by bringing more money into this budget. I am thinking about European funds, and this is not the only answer that we do not have ready projects, that we do not know how to apply. Look at how many projects we can't report because the government just doesn't make calls. And this is where we lose. I've never stood for saving myself. No, no, no. We prefer to create as much as possible so that we can spend as much as possible on the other side. But for us to create more, it also starts with the government. Not just with the Treasury Minister, so it won't all burn up on him, far from it. Other ministries have their responsibility, too, why they have not prepared some of the calls that are essential and condition that we can then apply for those funds, and we unfortunately did not know those funds that are waiting for us in Europe to pick them up. That I will not spend all my time on my colleagues, so let me conclude again with a simple thought that is understandable to all. Inflation will certainly be smaller if we are aware that we can only eat as much as we have created. And once again, let's try to get as much into the budget as possible, so that the government's objectives will be those, not that we will save as much as possible, but that it will create the opportunity and conditions for as much money to be brought into the budget and then we can also ensure higher social transfers - after home, we can spend more - and yet this will not generate even more inflation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. But the word has the MP's magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister and co-workers, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will not let myself be caught in the trap of controversy among the various economists, but I will think about inflation with the view of social inclusion, as also discussed by Minister Marjetka Cotman. What do I have to say about this? Active social inclusion is decided by sufficient social transfers, quality employment and quality social services. What can be said about these three elements when I think about 2007 and inflation? People feel inflation as much as their income is lower, and we have already heard that as many as two thirds of the employees are getting under the average wage. This is said to be an extremely thinning medium layer and therefore the expectation of sufficient social transfers is extremely important. That is why I already addressed the initiative to the Minister for Labour in August to consider the extraordinary valorisation of social transfers, or transfers to individuals and households, but at that time the answer was categorical, the law does not allow this, and the initiative to consider whether the law should be amended was categorically rejected. When I addressed to the President of the Government in September a question of a similar nature which the Government intends to take in relation to the regulation of the situation of the most affected groups of the population, if I sum up very briefly, the answer was that the Government has done everything it can, the culprit is the high price of food and energy; otherwise, everything is good for us, and all this has been said today, by which statistics the Prime Minister has proved it. So I could say that by then, until December, when the government had answered my question raised on the day of the fight against poverty, the image of Slovenia was close to that image of the paradise under Triglav, the golden age and similar things, where only those who talk about inflation are causing unnecessary concern among citizens. And they're actually blaming you for everything. There has also not been a speech in December on how the Government will target the measures. It was only said that we should tell, that is, the opposition, what we suggest the government did. Again, let me point out that we have proposed, but none of those measures have been taken as appropriate, but look at the devil, and in January at least as regards social transfers, the government has proposed two laws. One of these is for protection and the other is for child support. I reiterate that we have supported both laws because they have put out the problems of those most disadvantaged and socially disadvantaged groups. But talking about the government looking for systemic solutions is still not possible. What does the government say about quality jobs? They boast that unemployment is as low as it has ever been, but we have not yet addressed the problem of structural unemployment. And what does the director of the employment agency advise the group that is most at risk? It advises that they be employed as caregivers of the sick or as maids. Now I don't know if these are quality jobs. I also don't know if the solution is in quality jobs, but this is once again linked to the Lisbon Strategy if young teachers only get a fixed-term job, not for the full 12 months of the year, but only for ten months of school year, which again would be all in the spirit of flexible employment. If this is quality employment, then I must say that the idea of this on the government side is indeed somewhat flawed and even past those spoken of by the European Union, which is saying that it is precisely in providing equal opportunities that we need to take care not only of quantitative indicators, but especially of ensuring that jobs are truly qualitative. And just a word, two about quality social services. Let me remind you of the controversy about the health system, let me remind you of the debate on the kindergarten law, where the standard of service is declining and is trying to give the public an impression of the government's cautious behaviour by throwing away such solutions, which are being changed from the outside. First a free kindergarten for a second or third child, then suddenly on the bench offering 80% of the payment of parental fees for a child in that year before compulsory school. These are non-systemic, unimaginable solutions that were adopted in January, and we have been alerting the problems at least since August. Well, if that indicates systematic behavior, then I really don't know what the government's idea of systematics is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u47	Thank you, too. There's a MEP with a word. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u48	Good-bye to all of you. Today was an extremely interesting debate. I was certainly very happy about one. Previously, a representative of the largest opposition group here, in this Chamber, publicly advocated the tycoonism, by presenting the Government's fight against the tycoons and their cartel negotiations and consequently the high prices of food and corruption as something negative. You know, who really is the most responsible for these disproportionate food stimulations that even go beyond some neighbouring countries? The one who, at the same time as the auctions from the world market, then raised the margins. And the margins in retail have jumped to joy, and one of the newspapers published a very informative diagram days ago showing how much they have grown to profit in retail over the last period. Previously they were also, of course, profitable, stable, constantly present, but the rise in the last period is almost exponential. And this is the fault of the tycoons, their negotiation, when in a small market such as Slovenia, then actual competition no longer works. You have all talked earlier about competition, the need for greater competitiveness, but you have not made very clear what I am saying right now. To sit one group of tycoons together, consider how much it will wind up the prices of some food, some emergency product that every citizen needs, and then via the media that these same people control, as owners prove that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to blame. However, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intervenes on measures it can apply in the legal order by means of greater competitiveness, when authorities begin to do their tasks and fight corruption, against tycoons, this is defined as something negative, such as a demagogic or something that has been said about it. You know, this representative of the largest opposition group, who in this way has made it very clear that there is a permanent link between the tycoon and a large part of the opposition to those who irritate food and heat the life of ordinary citizens - I would like to embrace this recognition right now, only if I go to and embrace Mr Kumro, will they understand that Valentine's message is completely wrong today, so I thank him in public. Now, among the key inflation generators are, as you well know, very inflationary expectations. When inflation expectations begin to be embedded in all decisions, then inflation is a very big economic problem. Fortunately, this is not yet in Slovenia, but this can happen, but on purely other grounds, as is now shown here. Inflation is a dual problem at this point: on the one hand, the concrete problem of the irritations I have been talking about, and I have also shown very clearly how this is happening, and on the other hand, this is mainly about the potential for negative atmosphere, which is actually generating inflationary expectations. And when this starts to be integrated into decisions, I'm afraid, even in what decision can quickly be taken here, and then it's actually a wrong policy. In fact, what is essential is that we put things in the right frame. And I'm going to help myself with a few diagrams to make things more graphically clear. This curve would probably be better for us because the elections are coming, and probably all the opposition would want the inflation curve to be - but it's not, it's a curve that shows economic growth in the country of Slovenia after 2000. And this part down here is the part that includes the former coalitions, SD and LDS, the ones that teach us about economic growth today. You remember the thunder of the media orchestra "Slovenia Goes On" - don't you? And it went from 3.7 to 2.8 in the first year he was at the government of Tone Rob. This part here, where this steep rise is up, is the time of the government under the leadership of Janez Janša, when Slovenia achieves the greatest economic growth in its history. And in this context, it becomes even more fun to look at a little bit more what the average inflation is really like over the last three governments. Let's see: from 1996 to 2000, the average inflation was 8%, then in the next period 2000 to 2004, about 6.3%, and in the last period, 3.6%. Therefore, those who talk about back-up comparisons are silent about the essential story - when it comes to comparing quality, the only competition of the current government under the leadership of Janez Janša herself, in the first two years of running this government, because before that, inflation figures were very high and very impressive. Even today, when much is being manipulated by cumulative growth, rather than the average annual number giving a different number, it is silent that even during the last government period the number was completely comparable to where we are now. Even more so, things become clear if we know something that people need to be told very clearly. I believe that most of those who have debated know that most citizens and citizens do not - that all macroeconomics teach that a stable and long-term period of economic growth cannot be reached for a long time without certain inflation. Even mathematical models exist practically in every better macroeconomic textbook and are usually referred to as 3%. Now let us go to the international comparisons that some of you referred to. Our neighbourhood in the European Union, which we now belong to, has an average economic growth of exactly half the size of Slovenia or, if you want, Slovenia is twice the size or even more than twice the average growth of the European Union over the last period. That's the first thing you need to know. And secondly, when it comes to some countries that have even been referred to and where there are individuals who have made some critical remarks, it is necessary to know that they have about 1% economic growth there and we have 6%. This is said to be six times the size of those who make statements, perhaps on the basis of lack of information. And so if we know that there is a certain correlation between the minimum rate of inflation and economic growth, these numbers become even more interesting if we put them together. The intention is to achieve very high inflation and some economic growth is fine, but nothing impressive. To achieve a decline in inflation, and to achieve a reduction in economic development, it is also not very impressive. Having relatively low inflation and achieving a very high growth of economic development, this is an achievement, ladies and gentlemen! And this is, of course, the last one that comes not from averages, but from official data from the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. And now it is a matter of being very careful, and I would point out this, because this is quite contrary to what most of you have advocated in the opposition at least when introducing any additional anti-inflation measure. You know why? Because the international economic situation has also changed. At least a period of stagnation, perhaps even major problems of the world economy, is coming, and then an individual measure has a different effect. This development can also partly be the engine of an individual country, because we are not closed because we are open to the world. In this case, when the impact is reduced, however, any radical intervention that some of you offer so cheerfully could have caused stagflation, it is said that inflation would have actually fallen violently, but at the same time the rate of economic growth would have fallen even further, perhaps even turned negative and would have come into a state that some countries that have followed this type of recipe uncritically have already experienced very badly on their own. And it's very difficult to get out of this state, and that's what you have to say! And all those who have ever opened an economic textbook, you know that very well, and I ask you why you offer such recipes so persistently. This is said to be essential, perhaps for an additional starting point. Previously, we've witnessed some immeasurable data manipulation. One was excellent: that someone calculated - you know well who it was - what was the total sum of all the debt abroad and then counted it as an individual citizen and a citizen in Slovenia and made a demagogic address: "Dear God, look how much our child is now more in charge of his own head! "Do you know what demagogy this is? This man deliberately put 90% there in the truth of private debt, for which there is no State guarantee, which no one can recover from taxpayers in this country, and which represents a private initiative, the private risk of what this loan gave, and the private risk of who took this credit from us. They bear all the responsibility, all the weight of this decision and no one can pass it on to all other citizens and citizens. And with that information, there's a cold manipulation of the dead here! It's not the first time, it's always done! The state or citizens, if you want, because we are all together, can only burden taxpayers with something that is directly guaranteed by the state of Slovenia and nothing else. And stop counting on this all that is private debt abroad, because no one can recover it from citizens and citizens. Once again, those who have taken out private loans abroad have taken full responsibility for paying them off, and those who have given them credit have taken responsibility for their own decision. What I'm talking about is what I'm talking about. In fact, government financial policy is very restrictive. Very restrictive! Indeed, we need to know that public consumption in the share of the social gross product is declining. This is the first time in the history of the independent state of Slovenia that public consumption in the share of the social gross product is declining by more than a percentage! If that's not restrictive, then I'm sorry, but I really don't know what we're talking about anymore. And more importantly, the public financial deficit has turned into a public financial surplus. And we listen to stories about how this government is leading an unrestrictive policy! This kind of starting point can be set for each other only if we place the wrong starting points, the conclusions are also wrong. And what follows from what I am saying is that the government is therefore leading an extremely restrictive policy and that in the case of some stronger restrictive measures to reduce inflation, the only serious possibility of an economic problem that will arise, in this case, is the possibility of stagfing. And that's something worth remembering and taking into account. Just as far as the measures you've proposed are concerned. I must say, it is very interesting to claim this vehement claim that the tax on salaries paid must be abolished. Yeah, well, who introduced him, because that's not the authority! This is one very problematic measure taken by the previous LDS and SD coalition. But we decided two years ago, and we closed the case. It will, however, be phased out gradually, because for certain reasons, which everyone knows well, as they were then presented, it is necessary not to cause any disruption to the functioning of the tax system or to the functioning of the economy. And any "horoking" not only is we rejecting it, but it is also explicitly rejected by the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia - even at the last meeting as I was informed, because any "horukarian" approach in this part can have very negative consequences for economic development. Then why do you keep offering it and stressing it, I don't know, maybe you haven't thought of anything better yet, and I can offer you something. Look, if you're saying that the surplus of finance is a problem because of inflation, then why don't you support the possibility that one part of that money is taken from the domestic circulation - if that really was the problem! Then support the sale of a financial institution, such as the Triglav Insurance Institution and similar, to all citizens and citizens, in this way the 67th Article of the Constitution of Slovenia is implemented to ensure that the law provides for the possibility of acquiring property in such a way as to ensure its social function - to this article, which Dr. Jože Pučnik once proposed, is now more or less forgotten in the constitution - and, on the other hand, when the funds are fully transferred to the pension register, to this extent reduces inflationary pressure. Why, then, did you not propose this measure if you are serious about what you are saying? By the way, just for the end. I've already mentioned the logic of how every thing wants to show itself differently. In fact, look, on the one hand, they are taken to defend the tycoon and the persecution of corruption is eliminated with a very, very negative omen - what we have just experienced. But this is the effort of this power, this is happening at the time of the existence of this coalition, that is to say, this is, let's say, our policy. On the other hand, I would just like to remind you that, during the previous government, you have accepted a reduction in the antiquated deadlines, which means literally discharge for criminals at institutional level, which means that you have gone in a completely opposite direction. If we put this together, we see both sides now and I think the conclusion is perfectly clear: the government is doing well, the financial management is restrictive and Slovenia is developing very well. And by the way, it risks another forecast: in a very short period of time, in a few months we will also be witnessing the beginning of the decline of this inflation, because it has been conditioned to some extent by an excellently prepared takeover of the euro, and when that impoverishment, for example, of the measures taken by Parliament and the government to ensure this change, prices were slightly off-limits in that quarter of last year. When we get there, this cumulative level will also begin to manifest itself in the right light. This is no problem to predict ahead of time that some prices will rise. By the way, when you said that it was a surprise - you know, if this is my aunt who is 84 years old and lives in Celovac, she could have predicted that because she had experienced this in Austria at the time of taking the euro, I really don't know why it would be such a big shock to all economic science in Slovenia. And with that, I'd end up and - good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The Replo has a Member of the Dushan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I must say that I respect the diversity of the sexual practices of individuals, including colleagues Grimes, but I would not. I have commanded one sexual practice more than 30 years ago, and I will insist on it to the end. So, Comrade Grimes, you need to turn to someone else. About the tycoons. Now, whether you weren't looking at the magnetogram correctly, you were listening to me, but my point was that you were messing with this fight against the tycoons, because these tycoons you're talking about -- I don't know if they're tycoons -- you were sitting in your party president's office two years ago and you're talking to him. My point is that you're making fun of us, you're raising the kiddie allowance, you're saying a little bit, fighting the tycoons, and you're sitting with them, and you're agreeing on how you're going to deal with this cartel. And last of all, in this Chamber, when we discussed Mercator, your party president and government president and state secretary said, "We are selling a stake in Mercator to create conditions for competition for Lidl and Hofer." Today, you're saying that more than 90% have three and so on. [[...]] And one more thing. When you talk about the "more than 90%" thesis, as I heard it, "is imported inflation." Yes, the recipe is very simple: let us increase exports, and we export this inflation back out! It's a very simple recipe. Economists, experts, you're here and do it!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Ferry Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! I expected the purpose of today's debate - I don't know if it's exactly 12 hours for it, I'm not sure - in a patient and reasoned debate, proposing measures both by the proponents to deal with the problem and by the Government, of course, particularly in those areas where it is possible to influence and where the Government, the National Assembly and other competences have, and the possibility that this transfer of inflation, which we import, will reduce and eliminate as much as possible those causes or eliminate those causes, if not entirely, at least partially, of domestic nature. I believe and worry that the debate is not going in this direction to a large extent. The confrontation of positions and proposals, on the one hand, both on our part, and on the other hand, from the position of the Government and representatives of the Government Coalition, will not lead to the desired result. We're not going to cut any inflation. I'm afraid what's known as an economist is true today has been mentioned here, not by name, but by his article in today's Finances, that he was right when he originally wrote ironically that it would be better for us to take advantage of this beautiful sunny day and go out for a beer and have a good conversation and get close to each other. I fear that this will be another lost day, mainly by hyperinflation of words, but not to achieve the goal that needs to be achieved. I'm well aware, I'm so realistic and I have so much experience that magic sticks for high inflation - and that's the fact that it's too high - that it's not. That is why it is so much more necessary, on all sides and from all involved, and the governments and all of us, Members and Members, regardless of whether they belong to the opposition or to the coalition, to weigh all the options, all the arguments and see what - and possibly to simplify about what to do. I believe that too little has been taken into account so far also the warnings of local experts and institutions, as well as of foreign experts and institutions. I recall the types of talks we had in the National Assembly, both with the representatives of the European Commission and with the representatives of the International Monetary Fund. And now a few more concrete views and warnings. The first is the fact that, if the Government admits it or does not, the problem of inflation has been underestimated and has reacted too late, only when the symptoms of inflation have actually appeared and, above all, with a significant step that we have also supported, that is to say, mitigating the consequences of social packages. The rapid rise in inflation is not just automatic transmission of external causes - energy and food. This is evidenced by slower inflation growth in other countries in the European Union. The government should pay more attention to competition in due time, in advance, - indeed, there has been a lot going on here lately, the Minister for the Economy and the Committee I am leading have been talking about this - and now pay particular attention to the concentration in trade, the problem of insufficient competitiveness in the financial sector and elsewhere. But I don't think lately this finger-pointing is very demagogic, it's just not enough to trade and it's not quite right. It is not true, as they say'some papers that the Government has no influence and responsibility, both through legislation and through a large share of property directly or indirectly through Kad and the Court of Justice in a number of companies. Moreover, the government, or more specifically, influential government officials, including the President of the Government and, of course, some of the party's assets, mainly from the coalition of course, directly participated in the process of concentration in the field of trade - and also other activities - in the field of acquisitions, in the field of administrative personnel, in the supervisory councils and so forth. It takes too long or too long to allow for ever-increasing social disintegration. In social dialogue, in particular on wage policy both in the public sector - where it has to be acknowledged that the Government, in particular Minister Virant, has strongly engaged itself and the results have also been achieved - but also in the private sector or economy, the Government cannot simply say that this is a matter of partners, employers, workers and trade unions and that they can be called upon to agree. So here the government should play a more active role without violating legislation or constitution, particularly as a mediator or some kind of mediator. Also in the case of managers' salaries and awards and awards of members of the supervisory boards, the government should play a greater role and be responsible for the anomalies that are taking place here. Let me remind you, for example, of Germany, which has long been a democratic, capitalist country with quite liberal capitalism, but has also reached into the area of management wages in recent years. Appreciation or smugness for the minimum surplus in the budget, which is welcome and which has actually happened, as the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia recently said, with high growth and higher inflows to the tax register, is not enough to satisfy himself. This suggests a few options that could have a positive impact on the economy and could also be beneficial to the population and at least mitigate the negative effects or consequences of inflation. The faster reduction or abolition of the wage tax - I think this argument that the previous government has accepted it is nothing, because this government has been in power for a long time and the situation has changed. By the way, we, as Social Democrats, also opposed or proposed the abolition or reduction of this tax earlier. There could be a greater reduction in the corporate income tax. I would remind you that this is what we have advocated in the context of tax reform. Relief could be provided for investment in modern equipment, which is supported by the economy, in particular a small economy. Greater investment in research, development and technology would be necessary. We're underlying here, we're investing about 0.6% of GDP there. On Monday and Tuesday, at the Lisbon Strategy Conference in Brussels, we found that this was one of the main obstacles to the development of Europe, the European Union, not only in relation to America and Japan, but it was a frantic indication that even the Chinese economy is investing more - around 1% or something over GDP in R & D. So it invests more than the European economy. I am not in favour of a greater intervention in the limitation of investments; perhaps there may be some time delay in an investment, which I do not believe will happen in the pre-election period. However, the observation and the question of whether optimal sources of investment financing are provided, which led to an increase in indebtedness, are justified. In this debt, which was not in itself a problem for me, because in fact the highway cross needs to be built, modernised railways and so on, but some cases that show that it was not enough or everything was done. The government's incompetence is obvious whether even in the rear there are special interests for ineffective toll collection. It still seems that only two thirds of the tolls are collected and there is a legitimate threat, even competent and responsible people from the DARS, that the second year will not be possible to repay the loans from the tolls and that the state will have to intervene or the guarantees will have to be cashed. Therefore, it is all the more incomprehensible that last July the Government decided, for reasons unknown to us, to stop the project of upgrading the toll system at a higher frequency and for the introduction of ABC truck cards for faster passage, in order to provide more money than tolls and with ecological advantages. It was incomprehensible, above all, because it was clear at that time that what was a long-term normal objective in Europe was a switch to satellite monitoring of vehicles and tolling, that this would in practice not be as rapid as the Government was at that time optimistic in its programme. And that's what practice proves now. Finally, as we hear it, discussions on the introduction of vignettes are being reopened, which will mean additional investment and, of course, other problems. Poor use of European funds continues. Last year's data is known when we paid more €8 million in the budget than we got from it, and data for January, indeed it is only a month and it is not profitable that, when we could get more from the EUR 800 million European budget this year, we paid €375 million to pay more, that is, EUR 38 million only in January, as we have drawn from these funds. And I could list it, but I'd like to leave time with others, and I'd like to ask just one question. It's not provocative, but very serious, Minister of Finance, if he can answer. I'm sure he knows a lot about this and is talking about it in Brussels on Ecofin and on other occasions. This is also a question for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, because it is the responsibility of the European Central Bank. It is known that the United States of America, in the face of a high budget deficit, foreign trade deficit and exchange rate policy, which is increasingly unfavourable for European exporters - that this actually affects movements in Europe, the slowdown in growth, including inflation, and also has other adverse effects. Now that we're chairman, is there anything we can do to talk about it? The debate on this was also this Monday and Tuesday in the European Parliament to make a more unified presentation; the Union, all institutions and Member States in relation to both the US and other regions in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The Minister shall be involved in the debate. Minister Bajuk, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable. First of all, I would like to answer this last question raised by honourable Mr Feri Horvat, which is the impact of the euro rate on the overall development of the economy in Europe and, of course, in Slovenia. Let me say that we all know that in the last year the euro is gaining its strength if you compare it with all other global currencies. This has its long-term consequences. No, it is not an expression of actual economic events and it is very difficult to balance this, especially since we are living in this increasingly globalised world in which certain centres of economic power do not respond and do not act in accordance with their economic policy is not an expression of what we may understand in the Western world. For Europe, for the euro area, these matters, unless they actually express what is actually happening in these economies, can be of a fatal nature. Of course it's not so far. This is a matter that is discussed monthly at all meetings, not only in the Eurogroup, but also in Ecofin, and we have a common position and a common approach in this regard, which in every way tries to reach a dialogue with other economic centres, and this dialogue has already begun to bear some fruit. This is a very complicated business, and that is why the president of the Eurogroup, the Prime Minister of Luxembourg and also the Finance Minister of Luxembourg, has both functions in one person, and therefore there is great coherence there, is 100% consistency because he is the same person. Commissioner Almunia and the President of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, also had open discussions with the Chinese institutions and their authorities about this very visit to the Far East. This is also the subject of the last G7 debate in Japan. And we expect that this will only begin to express the reality of economic life in this globalised world, as it is now, and no one wants it to continue like this. So, that's what this is about. However, I would like to return to the specific questions that I have now heard, regardless of what I have presented at the beginning of this meeting, which I think need to be re-emphasized. These are various claims, first of all that the government did not respond in time. This is a very interesting phenomenon, and this is a really interesting phenomenon, because the 2007 Spring inflation forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development told us that it was somewhere between 2.5 and 2.6. That was March of the month. In fact, then this analysis was what was the impact of taking over the euro, what was the impact on inflation. There, by mid-March, they had done this analysis and came to this conclusion, and this is the only serious analysis we have that might have contributed 0.3%, 0.3% to today's inflation. Well, then there was this first shock, in April of the month, that's in the second half of April, when unprocessed food appeared on the market, the one that did not have tomatoes during the winter. The new articles, however, went directly to various markets and appeared at a significantly higher price than in the previous period. Here was the first shock. The impact on the whole picture of what will happen has not yet been so clear, we are following these things, I will not say weekly, because no one publishes this data on a weekly basis, but definitely monthly, based on data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, SURS, we follow these things, then it was not clear - no change, but then the data came in May, which we received there around 10 June and the same day that the statistical office published this publicly, and at the press conference after the government meeting, that Umar reviews all of his invoices, that we will go immediately to see what is really happening to us in this area. As you know, in July they changed their assessment and increased their evaluation for the whole year. August also began to happen, but the severe shock was processed food, which was in September, and I have reported it. The problem we have been facing is completely different in nature than in other countries of the European Union. And I would like to repeat here again, because it seems very important to me, this is a relatively new data, which is based on the analysis, the Eurostat database, how food prices were moving in the euro countries and how food prices were moving in Slovenia. And the differences are very interesting in that they clearly point to where these things have really been going. If you are looking at food prices for producers in euro area countries without Slovenia, this increased by 8.6% in one year, from January to December. However, the interesting thing is that when you look at retail prices in these countries at the same time, they have increased. That's what they say, only 7%. What does that mean? That in this chain from producers to final consumers, traders or retail prices actually absorbed part of this increase that occurred in producers. Why did prices increase in producers? This has already been said, and analyses have also been made on a global scale, and I would not waste time on this. I would like to compare this to how this same phenomenon occurred in Slovenia. We import food, food produced is also part of our import, otherwise it is not a large part, but it is one part, we import food. And in our manufacturing sector, these prices have increased by 10%. But the difference is not only that it went a little higher with us, but the fact is that when you go to see what happened to the retail prices when the whole trade was included in this chain, but not only did it not absorb anything to lower the margins. Not only did they not lower it in our house, but they increased. How much did they increase? For a 5.3% point. This is said to have increased prices in Slovenia by 15.4 and 10.1 at the producer level in 2007. There is actually a very important factor here, but it explains which way we have to go. Which way we must go, however, is what the Competition Protection Office is currently doing. I will then ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Economy to explain in more detail, as I may be able, all the procedures that this Office has started, from the electricity distribution, because this too needs to be reviewed. It seems strange to everyone that all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, in some independent analysis, they decided to increase by 6%, which I also find strange. Or, as for the prices of milk and other things, at least five procedures, very serious procedures are currently taking place in Slovenia. And I hope that it is precisely with these legislative changes that you have adopted that this office has greater responsibilities and responsibilities, and, of course, greater power, regardless of the fact that there is a different leadership, the younger forces, a little more decisive than in the past that we expect to have any effects in this area. So the price of food is a key factor that can explain why inflation was higher in Slovenia in 2007 than in 2006. And comparisons at the international level, what happened to the margins in the retail trade in Slovenia, I think they clearly indicate which direction we are going. The fact is, and some of you rightly pointed out that the concentration of ownership, namely private, has increased in the food sector in the last four years from 50% to practically 90%. This is a serious problem, and Slovenia will have to face it in its entirety because in such an environment it is impossible to expect competition to really work, as we all legitimately expect and demand. So I'm not talking again about the prices of oil and petroleum derivatives. But I have to say it again - why? - because practically more than four fifths of this inflation difference can only be explained by an increase in food, oil and petroleum prices. This is it, this is the key thing, and this is where things go. However, all the previous debate is a real answer to what we have heard since August. And what did we listen to? I don't remember any obvious evidence of what the government is doing in the field of food prices or oil prices. What we have heard is: "Your waste causes inflation in Slovenia." And this has been repeated, without data, despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance has not once, repeatedly explained, respected gentlemen, things are turning differently, not as it seems, not as planned, our data show that it is better, but it has been repeated and repeated. And it's repeating itself today. We have heard once again the representatives of the proponents who reiterated the pro-cyclical nature of public finances without knowing what they were talking about, because they did not bring any data. Where's the data? The data has been clearly exposed here and I will point them out once again and again, how many times it will be necessary. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if you insist on wrong explanations, you will also propose wrong solutions, but I have heard a lot about wrong solutions today. It was also said very freely, without any evidence, without any information: "The government has done nothing in the area of structural deficit." Now, you have to explain this a little bit. Because we all talk about surplus, which is true - after cash flow is surplus. What is this structural deficit? This occurs when the effects of the so-called cycle are taken away from it, today were relatively good economic times, more economic growth, than our apparent potential - at least so far it has not been proven, I hope that these figures will also say many things soon - that we have done nothing and nothing is happening. And a repetition of the claims made by Mr. Lakhovnik. Mag. The bottler immediately repeated with great determination that the deficit was greater than 0.1%. Dr. Laharnik, I'm sorry. [[...]] [[talking to each other]] Well, it doesn't make much difference if a person has a lot of diplomas, but I have a lot of diplomas, and I don't have anything to help me with these discussions, but you know, it helps to know that a person knows what he's talking about, not to repeat it without knowing what it's about. [[...]] [[...]] No diploma can help with that! The structural deficit is not minus 1%, as you claim. If you have any calculations, please come with him a day. There are no calculations, you repeat what was said. I've told you what is the calculation of the Ministry of Finance that is behind all the professional services of the Ministry. We expect that when we have a definitive account in our hands, when we also have definitive information that we do not all have, I must say that we do not have it. The structural deficit will be no more than 0.2%. How old was he? Last year it was minus 1.1%. What's more, in 2005 minus 0.8, 2004 minus 1.5, minus 1.8 in 2003, minus 2.2 in 2002, minus 4 in 2001 and minus 4.2 in 2000! So the previous governments have made some effort, and since 2000, they've made up the structural deficit from minus 4.2 to 1.5, and now it's minus 0.2. Well, there is something else about this structural deficit, because this is all accounting, that we all understand what expenditure is expenditure, sooner or later, has to be one document for every letter, that is simple belief. These so-called structural deficits, however, depend on different estimates, which are very different. I would like to mention, for example, that I have here one analysis which has been published in international literature. Someone checked how many times they calculated nine different levels of this structural deficit for the same year in Portugal. It depends somewhat on the economist and also on the assumptions they make. In view of how the past is pictured, or how the future is pictured, this structural deficit can also differ. We use the methodology required by the European Commission. On this basis, we also report. The data we have today just gives us this opportunity to say here in front of you, "This deficit is going to be minus 0.2." So please don't say we didn't do anything. But the fact is, if we want to work without mistakes, forget about the structural deficit, we create a surplus. But the surplus is already here. The surplus is after cash flow, the surplus is also if you calculate according to the ESA 95 methodology, that is to say, if everything is accounted for on the basis of a business event, not just a cash flow. Well, cash flow is the most important thing to inflation. Because, of course, when people, certain economic actors, decide what they will do, whether they will buy or sell, they will invest, they will not invest, whether they will make a bit of a "stop" or not. These are decisions based on how the market feels and what is happening. No one shall decide whether to buy or sell on the basis of a reading of the Official Journal or whether the structural deficit will be greater or smaller. The decision is made on the basis of what is happening on the market. And what's going on is the cash flow. And even though he doesn't know them, he feels them. That is why some entrepreneurs are a little smarter than others. They can read these things more wisely and make decisions. But how do our entrepreneurs decide? Yeah, let's see how they decide. They decide, and believe in this Slovenian economy, they believe in this economy by investing much more today than they used to invest. And I beg you, I will now say again that I will not hear again that this is some complacency from the government. We are well aware that this is not because we would be supporters of the government because they believe that there has been some real breakthrough in the development of our economy in Slovenia. The biggest cynic today understands and knows that Slovenia must operate on the basis of different rules of the game. That these rules of the game do not depend solely on the political will of this or that group that is in the government or opposition for time. Slovenia has decided, by entering the European Union and the euro area, to actually work on the basis of the rules of the game, which do not depend only on domestic policy, but depend on common decisions in the European area. And the control over compliance with these rules of the game also depends not only on domestic institutions, but also on others. Why is it here repeated what are the assessments of the European Union and the various officials of the European Bank? Because we all understand and know that since we moved on to the euro area, we are not alone, although we are in a small place, Slovenia has never been great and it will never be, at least not many of us, but we are on the same euro area boat and we have to respect these rules of the game. Does Slovenia respect them or not? He's got a lot of respect for them. You know, today they again quoted the assessments made by Commissioner Almunia on behalf of the European Commission yesterday. Slovenian media is some [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] reported, some other. [[...]] Everyone here wants to repeat what they want, or that piece that is more consistent with what they would like to say to the Slovenian public. But the European Commission has finally found out what we know and it is right that we are all aware of this once. Slovenia has indeed made very great progress in the area of fiscal policy and public finances, as well as its stability. Therefore, his assessment that by 2010 everything shows that Slovenia is in a strong, solid position. Of course, he repeated what we will hear and more, and these are things that are also part of our common concern, both the opposition and the government. Inflation in Slovenia is difficult and can cause long-term consequences if we do not face it and will not try to eliminate it. That was the first warning. The second warning is related to the ageing of the population. Our population is growing old. If we do not do so and resolve it in time, we will be able to face severe problems after 2025. That's why we need to get this thing started as soon as possible. It also reminds us of the long-term stability of public finances, which has nothing to do with future elections in Slovenia. This has to do with the birth rate. Now this thing is getting a little bigger. Whether it is long-term or not, it is only part of one trend or not, no one knows it yet. And I hope that we will not listen to any speeches about this case today, but they have warned us about this and it is right to be warned. Because we, as a society, have to do this. What did the Government report to the European Commission on this? We have honestly said that since 1999, we have been implementing a pension reform that is being implemented every year. The working time is extended every year. And this will have its effects, which we do not know if they are already fully involved in. But we know today that the 2000 reform, which we are still implementing and will be implemented for two more years, will not be sufficient to solve our problems in the long term. So we have to face it, and that's right. This debate must primarily be the subject of a debate in our society in order for all citizens and all citizens to be aware of it. Not only are we here, either in the National Assembly or in the political space, but we will be confused by such or other arguments. This is a common problem that we need to solve, and this is how I read the European Commission's warning and it is right to warn us. We have also heard some incredible claims about the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. There's a lot of confusion here. At the Ministry of Finance, we have already convened three press conferences on this issue and have tried to explain that the state debt is the responsibility of the state. And we've made it public, as it is, and this sovereign debt is shrinking. I know a lot of people would rather see it go up, then the opposition would have a longer speech as far as it goes. Your Honor, this is not the problem with Slovenia at this time! Why isn't it? Because it's getting smaller. How much is it shrinking? As a punishment, I recall, when I took over the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance, my predecessor gave me the already prepared report to be sent to Brussels. He said, "You can't make it in two days," and he did it to me. I read that thing thoroughly, and I also signed it solemnly, and I sent it because I believe in the Ministry of Finance's professional services and also in the integrity of my predecessor. He did this work, even though he knew he'd have to present it abroad to someone else. In that report, this was December 2005, you can look at it on the website, it was envisaged what would happen if nothing happened. It is said that if this government does not start to really break it in order to come, as we have heard today, a new model of development that will increase slowly. It was expected to exceed 30% of the GDP in 2006. See, on 31 December 2006, this same debt, which was expected to increase, actually decreased to 27.2%. And I don't have the latest data this year, believe me, it's going to fall a little over 25%. The State of Slovenia is not in such a squabble as is said. Why is that? I know what the representatives of the opposition will do, they will go again and repeat the absolute figures, they will say more euros was now than they were then. Why is it important to compare these things with GDP? I will very simply try to explain why, in all my presentations, I insist on comparing such data with GDP. This is so, look, if I, as a grown man, owe my Secretary of State 10 euros, it's not too bad for me or him. However, if a child in school owes 10 euros, but this may be too much for him, it is too much for him. Compared to his income, this is much more than he could have dreamed of in a few months. So we always have to compare not the absolute digit of how much this is, but what this means according to our options. And as the economy grows, when we have greater economic growth, we also have a better chance of paying back such things. But without us increasing, it's decreasing as a share of our options for repayment. And if you compare the debt of the Republic of Slovenia, the countries of the Republic of Slovenia are slightly over 25% of GDP. Yeah, compare with our neighbors in the north, who are supposed to be very serious people, and judge out there somewhere over 70%, compare with our neighbors in the west, and there's something like that over 100%! But there's only a quarter of us, and that's why I'm once again inviting us to talk about these things when we're discussing, soberly, that we know what's going on and that we're not excite in our people, in our citizens and citizens, some sense of disaster that's going to happen to us any moment. It's just not true! Slovenia, as far as this is concerned, is on track. Now the question is whether then this is self-satisfaction, as I have heard from some of you today. No, we can't be satisfied. How pleased we can be if we still have certain problems that we need to solve. However, I am sure that common sense will prevail and that we will also resolve this in time. Now, finally, there's only one more piece of information that I've already said in my presentation this morning, but it looks like I wouldn't say anything, and this is a reference that you don't say anything to gentlemen of the government, because you don't include all the guarantees and all the guarantees. Even if you turn all this on, it's still against cyclical what the government has done so far. And so we will continue and so it happens when we hear that we have changed the development model, I have heard today. The development model of the Republic of Slovenia has changed because we have reduced the sum that we give out of our pocket every year to finish the DARS faster, sorry not faster with Darsa, we finish the motorway faster, that's Dars' job. Once again, because this is a very important information; in 2000, Dars' net debt, despite the fact that he received a lot of funds through the gas tolar, went up 4,67% as a proportion of GDP. In 2001 4,48, in 2002 3,10, in 2003 3,75, if you add this up, with all the debt, and then it starts to go down 3,40, 2,26, 2,05, 1,35. Why is that? Because of the net debt from year to year, what is said to have caused no new model of development No look at the new model of development, listen a little, please. [[...]] In 2000, when it was a gas toll and it was a serious government government, Darsa’s net debt was 0.89%, as was GDP’s share. Then he fell to 0.45, then he fell to 0.60. In 2003 it was 1.05 and in 2004 it was 1.15. And from now on this great sin, which is not happening in Slovenia, because Dars does not get more from the budget than in the past. But it was 0.80, 0.85, which looks very similar to the figures in the past and in 2007 it was 1.47. If you take the last three years, you add it all up, and three years ago, when very serious people who would never have allowed it, who had different models, are 0.4% more GDP in a three-year period. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you once again to discuss these things on the basis of data and to go together, the National Assembly and the Government, and to debate once again, not what has not happened, not how we need to change public finances that obviously did not create this inflation, but to focus on what is happening in Slovenia, that the price of food has risen once faster with us than in neighbouring countries. That's the question we have to ask ourselves. How can we change our legislation? How can we give our institutions even greater responsibility to the Competition Protection Office if it turns out that they are not sufficient. To ensure once and for all that competition in the Slovenian economy will not be a fact that is only on paper, but that every citizen and every citizen will be able to feel it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have three announced individuals who will speak on behalf of the proposer. First of all, Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u56	Of course, we have to respond on behalf of the applicants, because I have already felt that the price of tomatoes is responsible for everything. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia responded here with three ministers. The Minister of Finance speaks 70% of the time, the Minister of Economy 20% and the Minister of Labour 10% of the time. I have a feeling that the government is obviously going to do the same. Allow me, of course, to comment on a few things the ministers have said. The Minister of Economy said that the Office of Competition Protection would now operate. But, gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Government sold the great "best neighbor" to the supplier. For two years, the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Minister of Economy, claimed to the European Union that there was no competitive concentration. Now, all of a sudden, when you got into a fight with so-called tycoons, you're saying the opposite, and now it's a margin problem. This problem originally occurred on August 12, 2005, when you decided to sell for some other reasons. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been told that the Government is taking action. You acted in January 2008, after two years of not indexing social transfers and, of course, we have savings in the budget on the basis of reductions, real cuts in social transfers and the Ministry of Finance, or Mr Minister, that I will not quote domestic data, the European Central Bank has today announced that there is a serious risk of declining economic growth due to problems of financial stability. And Slovenia is more exposed to this than it was to a changed model of development. The data are very simple in shares of gross domestic product because the Minister likes it. In December 2004, the gross external debt was 73% of GDP and in October 2007 it was almost 100% gross domestic product. And gross external debt is something that we are all burdened with, but above all the problem is that this gross external debt has to be constantly renewed if you want to maintain this model of development based on borrowing abroad. And if the European Central Bank says there is a serious problem of financial stability, you know, so serious is this problem that Janez Janša was not invited to London for a meeting, Mr Brown, Mrs Merkel, Mr Sarkozy, but they were invited by Barroso and Mr Prodi, so serious is this problem. Therefore, the warning of Ambassador Horvath was a good warning, but we heard from the minister everything else. We were denied that we had not used any data. When inflation broke in October 2007, we have this big jump to 13% in October 2007, or if you want on average: August 3.5, September 3.5, October 5.1, November 5.7, December 5.6 and January 6.4, average inflation and only food 13%. Why did this happen in October? This occurred in October for a simple reason, called inflationary expectations. On 1 October 2007, the government proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a budget that no longer predicted 6% of the expenditure growth, but twice as high, 11% of the expenditure growth. Instead of 2.4% of growth in material costs, an increase in material costs is now envisaged 20.1%. Instead of a 3.6% increase in investment expenditure, 35.1% is projected for investment expenditure growth in 2008. This generates inflationary expectations. We therefore opposed the adoption of such a high-cyclical, pro-cyclical state budget in the opposition, and therefore we propose that the Government adopt, in the days following the discussion, such a national budget balance, which will no longer be a two-digit increase in expenditure, but which will in particular mean that nominal growth in expenditure will be lower. Take the example of Minister Marble. In 2004, despite the elections, the growth in material costs was an index of 96%. These are the data the government has on it, but you haven't prepared it. Yesterday the European Commission said the following, if so far it has been considered that one, if you want serious problems in Slovenia, is so long-term sustainability of public finances, and because of pensions and everything, we now have not one more problem, but at least three. We have pro-cyclical public finances for 2008 and therefore proposes that the budgets be counter-cyclical for 2008. We have a problem of income policy and we have a problem of competition. We don't have one problem anymore, but we have four problems. And that is what Commissioner Almunia said yesterday, and if you add to the warnings on financial stability, the model of development presented by Mr Bajuk at the 2005 budget balance, with the words: "Why should we not be in debt?" simply unrestrained. Simply incoherent and this model of development, Minister Bajuk, results in the following. Instead of paying off his loans by 2020, 2025, Dars will have to repay them by 2070. This change for this change is not necessary to sustain it in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Member Lakhovnik has the floor. Here you go, on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Given that previously respected Minister of Finance, Mr Bayuk, cited some of the data, it would seem correct to state them correctly. Besides, I don't know why he was so nervous and he was upset, because when we talked about the structural deficit, we made it clear for 2006, 1,1 for 2007, according to my data, 0.7%, but deficits. Now you can turn this data any way you want, but that's what they are. Please, here, Minister, but for correctness. Today, I stand behind every piece of information I've said because everyone is publicly available. And even when we are talking about Slovenia's great indebtedness, I have made very clear what is an unsecured private debt and what is a public and publicly guaranteed debt. But if you don't know that we're looking at more than 4% of the current balance of payments deficits this year, then I'm sad. Regrettably, since Banka Slovenije already points out this and Governor Kranjec is, I think a day or two ago about this talk, two days ago, at breakfast with representatives of the so-called American Chamber of Economics, and he himself talked about that fiscal policy is not currently restrictive, but it is expansive and please, here, but for some correctness. I think it's right that when we talk about data, we know whether they're standing or not. Even when we are talking about the pro-cyclical policy that we are telling you about, it is not an illusion of the opposition, but you are also reminded by Commissioner Almunia. Yes, please, I am reading the calls of the European Commission and it says that Commissioner Almunia calls on Slovenia to avoid pro-cyclical policies. That is how Mr Minister is, and if you were in Brussels, obviously, I don't know if you've listened to these instructions or if you didn't want to hear them. So in some ways your whole performance today is really paradoxical and it belongs to the anals of Slovenian parliamentary history. In fact, in a way, you almost argued that inflation is not a problem, although it is 6.4% in January, the problem is that in fact the opposition is talking about it now and it is problematic. In short, you will say very little if there were no opposition, there would be no inflation. I mean, now we're really going a little too far with these things, the data shows very clearly that inflation has started to grow between March and May last year and this trend has grown. And when in the summer some called on the President of the Government to be in some spirit, because inflation is a problem that, however, goes beyond some party framework, to discuss it at the highest political level, when he also invited the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Union to harmonise on measures, there was no listening to this. That's when we heard the demeaning statements, "You have no idea, you don't know what you're talking about, you're panicking," all that we're listening to today. So, according to you, inflation is not a problem, so the problem is in the opposition, which warns against this inflation. But I think this is the wrong approach, at least in my opinion. Even if you erase us in the opposition, I think the problem of inflation will still remain. So that's not good. The other thing I would like to say is, you know, when we're talking about the causes of inflation, I think it's still necessary to be corrected here. I have already set the reasons very clearly in the opening recital on two key aspects; one is this competitive policy, which, I have specifically pointed out, is a long-term nature that covers the problem of market concentration in individual markets, which interferes with vertical integration in both agriculture and the food processing industry, where many of these vertical integrations are very clear and I have warned very clearly that this is also the reason that external shocks are very much translated into retail prices and this is one part of the problem concerning the internal market. But the second part of the problem, as I said very clearly again, concerns macroeconomic imbalances and again, when I talked about the data I did not invent, I don't know how strange it is, as you say, but I made it very clear how much investments last year amounted to EUR 10 billion and savings of EUR 8.8 billion, and so if we look at this mismatch, then we see that, as in economic theory, the deficit in the current balance of payments account is expressed, it has to be, because it is fundamental economic equations. We are saying that there is always a discrepancy between aggregate supply and aggregate demand, by definition, always in conflict with savings and aggregate investment. And these are some facts, and I don't know why you think we're just talking and making things up. Speaking of Slovenian debt, I've already said that the actual data are what they are. And once again, I make it very clear. I agree that it is not your fault that there has been an increase in the indebtedness of the population or that business banks have leased so many more loans abroad to service these domestic loans. I have made it very clear that this is due to the expected fall in real interest rates after the introduction of the euro. But what's the difference, say, between you as minister and your predecessor. Your predecessor would respond with appropriate policy to such fluctuations or unexpected or unexpected events. I would prepare appropriate measures to try to mitigate this effect as much as possible. And you have done absolutely nothing in this area. You'd rather go into opposition trouble if we made things up and didn't know how to look at the real data. And that seems to me, Mr. Minister, a little bit or rather incorrect. You know, there are magnetograms in the National Assembly. When you brought your budget to the National Assembly, we warned you in the opposition that what we say is very dangerous. To restructure the budget in the wrong direction. That we have reduced the budget funding for the construction of motorways while at the same time increasing the guarantees and that this simply means that we are trying Keynesian measures, as we say to economists, to stimulate economic growth and this has happened. This reflected economic growth. The estimates to what extent this dynamic is now contributing to economic growth are different. After the worst, I'll say, bad grades as far as governments are concerned, up to one third of the total growth. In short, there is a cycle here that has also been produced with high aggregate demand, but there is no denying it. That is why I say that the Government, through its policy, has encouraged this inflationary trend because it has overly encouraged aggregate demand because it has acted pro-cyclically, as we say, it has acted exactly as Commissioner Almunia now calls on us not to act, that is, he says that Slovenia should avoid this pro-cyclical policy. And once again in the opposition, with data, we have warned that we are leading the wrong policy, that it is pro-cyclical and not anti-cyclical, you have provided data on the surplus, which amounts to EUR 20 million. And once again we have warned you that the structural deficit is still the same as it was, or we have not done enough or practically nothing in this area, and Slovenia has not benefited from the favourable economic conditions to reduce the structural deficit, and now you are serving us again only with a statistic, which is that the surplus has been achieved at the expense of those most affected by inflation, so that you have changed the coordination of social transfers and have only aligned yourself to many in the past year with high inflation, not as usual before. And another thing, as I have already said today, and once again, is that drawing on European funds is very, very bad and is worth thinking about. Let me get this. We really did not create any demagogies here, and we tried to draw attention to the facts, relying on official data and official statements, particularly the statements made by the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Kranjec, whom we all elected together and by Commissioner Almunio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of colleague Lucky Friend, on behalf of the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm glad Mr. Minister is in the Chamber this moment. Dearly beloved, it is clear to us today that the Government is not solving social problems and inflation, but merely taking some mitigating measures, which are short-term and probably praying that they will continue there until the first half of this year, when essentially this function, which Slovenia has today, is passed, and then they can trade back on the road. Citizens and citizens, respected representatives of the government, have not given you a mandate to experiment like Balthazar with social policy in Slovenia. And you don't have a mandate to play with the fate of many. The fact is, even in your disgrace, you do not want to correct the data at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the last to be corrected and updated on poverty in 2004, and this data also says that poverty is 25%. That's official information. If we updated it today, this number would probably be even bigger. What will happen to this growing prosperity, you probably already know that, Mr Minister, and it is not right to tell us here that inflation is the fault of oil and the rise in food prices. That's exactly what I'm trying to remind you of. At the time of the introduction of the euro, you promised, too, that prices would not increase, but they did. Again, it's a sort of weight, and I've warned you about it many times. Today you're talking about Asian tigers, about oil, about preciousness, which is the cause of uncontrolled price growth. Yes, who has price regulation if not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Slovenia? Is it possible that Albania has jurisdiction? When are you going to stop this darling? That's what I'm asking you, and that's a very simple question that people who are listening to today want to hear the answer to. I have called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia several times to discuss these matters. You know, when we had our last vote, that was in the National Assembly on 23 October, you were all government representatives on poverty, I'm talking about Members, you voted that this broad debate is not being held. You push your head into the sand, just like noisy does. Earlier on September 12th, I called on the President of the National Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting. He didn't even respond. He was such a Christian-oriented man. This ear was not heard by the President of the Government, nor was the then President of the State. All three had the opportunity to convene this meeting. The documents are here, and this has been happening since last year. As we have said, you are very irresponsible toward those who have given you a mandate. We do not behave irresponsibly, so today it is this meeting, and you are, in effect, treating them as you do. Because 25% of citizens and citizens, you know how much this is - one quarter. And if we're going to go here with some Argentine politics, then it's time to call it a stop, the Slovenians have lived better. And it's only right that they live from now on a little better, and tomorrow they live well. If you look at, at the time of independence, the data available over the last ten years, the price index for living needs has increased from 100 to 181. Shame. Pays didn't rise by 81%, not by a few percent. Dear Minister, when will you allow people who create surpluses a new added value to be involved in profit, even in the work of profit that they themselves create? Because your success story is based on these people. These people have created today a so-called budget surplus, and do not even allow them a decent life. And when you speak, you mentioned earlier over my shoulder here when you went out that you reduced your debt by 5% this year. Slovenia's current debt is €35 billion, €16 000 per person or per capita. And what does an eminent citizen tell you? This spring, the country paid a relatively large amount of domestic debt to banks, in securities, I think it went for 800 million and went to the external market in debt for a billion euro in euro bonds. On the one hand, the country criticises the tycoon as it calls it and wants to act against it, while at the same time a few months ago it has itself made possible a great liquidity potential and so on. Why did you do that? That's your job. That's what you allow. Here's this regulation and your failure. Do not tell us about the fact that matters with flowers are laid and compare and mention some countries that have a ten-fold higher payroll in payment systems for workers than Slovenia has. The Minister of Labour spoke about how we reduced unemployment. Why are you lying? Why are you deceiving me? Unemployment was reduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in such a way that it deleted from the list of inactive jobseekers. This, in practice, means: If someone calls an unemployed person from the institution who is registered and he does not answer, he is erased. You erased the invalids, and that's how you came from 100,000 unemployed to 75,000. This is a success for you and, of course, this is what you say, I don't know, a coordinated social policy. That's just not true. Just because you've given the citizens a few crumbs today doesn't mean you've solved the problems. But if in January alone, you cut 17% of your food. The basket of living expenses is just a basket of living expenses and we all have to go to the store and we all have to pay the same amount for the same items. There is no difference, rich or poor, the price for everything is the same. Sadly, some do not even have the means to survive, while others are likely to see where they will invest their savings or where they will go on vacation. I believe, Mr. Secretary, that you are not prepared to live with 300 euros a month. If you are, then say here that it is good and that you will try to live like this for one three months, four of you, and we will see if you succeed. There are many Slovenes and Slovenians who have to do this today. I don't know how, but that's a fact. The well-intentioned amendments we have proposed have been rejected. One of the amendments says that we would like to abolish the tax on paid salaries already in 2007. You said, "In 2009, let's do this." It's absolutely too late. If we did, we'd actually have a real effect. But we also proposed that the content of the measures taken to counter inflation be reported monthly. It's mainly about finding out what's going on. You refused to do that, too. For God's sake, if you have serious intentions, why did you refuse to? And finally, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General. That's what many voters are asking us to do. Tell me, when are you really going to coordinate wages with inflation growth? This applies mainly to workers. Because the workers are absolutely nothing to blame for inflation. It is your fault for inflation that you are sitting in the government and you are obliged to do this for all citizens and citizens. And tell me this today, the date when you will truly coordinate both pensions and wages with rising inflation. If you are a good government, if you believe in your work, you will make that promise today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Minister, I ask you, may I have a motioner, Comrade Friday, before you, do you wish to discuss it now? My friend Friday, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u62	Thank you so much for your generosity. I'll be quick. I think the events Mr. Bajuk has made make some sort of artistic impression, which I agree with. A lot of numbers, a lot of data, authoritarian, of course, because it's a minister, because it's not spoken by someone other than a minister who must have all this data. The problem is that he was doing this at a time when he was in the opposition, similarly, with less data, less credible, but his performance had similar moves, similar theatricality and so on, but I don't know if he convinced anyone. I don't think he's convinced much today as a minister, but that's his job, and we're admitting it, and that's why we're not going to change our position. Mr. Bajuk, you have a problem, and you have a problem with the government, but not one, you all have problems. We're not the only ones who told you what we're trying to tell you today - you don't really recognize any authority. So, Mr. Kranjec, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who was elected by this Parliament, with your votes, your coalition, wants to tell you something that I think should come across your ears as well. He told you that, in fact, last year's budget surplus happened to you. So you have never denied that you have actually guided politics in this way, i.e. public financial policy, so that you can attribute this matter to yourself. It has happened to you that some projects have not been implemented, which will show the final bill, and it is nice to boast in the electoral year about how the budget surplus is the achievement of this government. Mr. Kranjec, Governor of Banka Slovenije, told you that inflation was influenced by an expanding fiscal policy. We didn't make that up. Those are his statements. Again, you ignore it, deny it, and say it to the public and explain it in your own way. I'll tell you a few more cases. The State Audit Commission has proposed some 30 proposals for conclusions and measures on how to amend the Public Procurement Act, which in our view is also a kind of generator of what can also happen in investments with offers such as those found to be in this case by constructionists, even cartels, and you have not listened, so, to the audit authority that has this authority and should have this authority. We have recently addressed the case of Minister Podobnik, Minister of the Environment. The authority of the Court of Auditors appears to be also on the threshold. The Prime Minister of the Government has already stated in his statements that he is leading the matter in the direction of "they have done so before Minister Podobnik, so they are guilty," and the authority of the Court of Auditors will be destroyed in the event of a different decision such as the discharge of the likes, and it will never be possible to establish it again. I illustrate this because, in fact, you are constantly proposing or constantly thinking that you are the one who must always be right, I am not talking about you personally, I am talking about the Government, some or many measures, many of its interpretations. And then this happens to us. One example is one that has an indirect impact on the subject that we are talking about today. It was not long before we adopted the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, yet you did not want to hear that we had a problem and a question of constitutionality. And that's what the Constitutional Court did, unconstitutionality, and you've been repeating the story in the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, on Financing, and so on. What we are saying is because, Mr Minister, sometimes it is necessary to look at ourselves, sometimes to listen to someone else, but maybe we haven't done everything, but maybe there is an individual, an institution, an organ, and so on. And if this debate doesn't lead to this conclusion, especially on your part, I'm not saying that we don't have anything to consider and change our position, maybe too radical. But if we don't all do this together, then we do have a zero result and then we haven't justified the ones we've proposed, and even less those who won't take into account the comments that we're making in this debate and which were the reason for the references to this meeting. Just and just as an illustration, everything else was said, I think it was accurate enough, consistent, competent enough, and I don't think it makes sense for me to repeat words about the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When the word correct is used, of course, it means that something was wrong, something was out of order. At no time did I stand here in front of you or in front of the Slovenian public and claim that the opposition is guilty of inflation. I explained, I hope you all understand that I have explained how four-fifths of our inflation can be explained, the differences in inflation in 2007-2008 can be explained on the basis of food prices and the price of oil and petroleum derivatives. Of course I did, and now I will repeat what I am sure has happened and is still happening in Slovenia to create artificial inflation expectations. Because when we go beyond data on what might happen or what might happen, maybe not, then all people are a little weak because everyone looks from their point of view and imagines the future in a way or another. However, I think that creating expectations, especially in this area, can be very negative and requires consideration before these things are discussed. I also heard you speak authoritatively again. The numbers speak authoritatively, because I don't speak, the data is a reality, and everything else is an assessment. They speak authoritatively. And if I ever make a decisive statement with data in my hands, it's because I know what I'm saying, and I repeat that it's wrong to estimate that the structural deficit will be more than 0.2%, as announced by the Ministry of Finance's professional services. And that's what I said this morning. I didn't do this myself, I admit it because I don't do it. I trust, however, that these people I have worked with for three years now, if they are asked to do so, their best assessment has been far more credible than other assessments. Now he's happy to quote evaluations coming from other sources, and I've explained to you this morning and I'll say it again, no. The assessment in November 2006, by Banka Slovenije, was that the deficit of the Republic of Slovenia in 2007 would be minus 2 percentage points of GDP. But we had a surplus. They announced at that time, also in November 2006, that the deficit would be slightly more than 2 percentage points of GDP in 2008. I simply do not believe this because it is based on a wrong assessment of the effects of tax legislation. We've already explained this and I'll explain it. On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the basis of the trust and responsibility I have, I have chaired this meeting, whether I have listened to it in Brussels or not. Not only did I listen to him, I led him. And you can't sleep if you lead, no. Just so you guys stay calm, it went pretty well. And yes, the President of the European Central Bank and the European Commission also participated. And what is the assessment of these institutions? The final assessment by the European Commission will be given on 21 February. On February 21st, we'll have our grades. And what were the predictions that were made when Commissioner Almunio and I had a press conference. He sat on my right when he explained that, according to their assessment, these so-called downside risks were actually being realized. Since October, all these services and the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund have been alerted that risks have increased downward. No one was "sure" or it would happen or not, but they said, "Look out, guys, there's some new risk here, and that risk is down." Let's be careful. Attention. That was the call of October and November of the month. Now, unfortunately, these certain risks are being realized. And what the European Commission's estimates, which it has announced, although the calculation will not be completed until 21 February, will be done by the Commission to make economic growth in Europe slightly lower. However, it is very close, very close to the potential of the European area and the fact that it will be slightly below 2%. At that time, the European Central Bank joined in. We all know that there will be slightly lower economic growth. However, I must also say that after these meetings, the Minister of the Netherlands, Wouter Bos, and the Minister of Finance of Germany, Peer steinbrück, also spoke in the same direction. And this, the German economy, this is a serious matter, has warned that the real sector, yes, we are looking, and we expect this to calm down a little bit, but we are not expecting a recession in any way. There's no way he's expecting a disaster. You can read this in Reuters, the Financial Times, in all those who reported it, unfortunately STA and our nationalist didn't talk about it. On the other hand, the representative of the Ministry of Finance of the Netherlands also spoke in the same direction. So the risks for downwards are being realized, but the consequences of financial turbulence, as it is now said, on the real sector, are lower than talk or trying to scare people. First of all, that is what the German finance minister was very determined to say. So the second question that I've heard before is again, "How can we solve it? "By increasing relief," this is a very interesting argument. On the one hand, we hear how investments need to be reduced, on the other hand, we hear proposals from the same people who suggest that we need to reduce investments, how we need to increase incentives to make a little more investments. You know, you should consider what you're actually proposing because that's not how it works. And I also need to clarify something about the proposal by the applicants for the abolition of the tax on paid salaries. The tax on paid wages generates revenues of around 600 million euros a year. If we had one today, we'd have something like that. This year we expect 240 because the last 30% still exists. I'm sure you remember, it was years ago, not under this government. We've decided to phase this out. This departure has already created a number of things, the last tranche is 2008, with 1.1.2009 no more. And there is something else to say about all these comments on the 2008 budget. In 2008, you know very well, on the basis of the legislation proposed by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly, concerning the amendment of the Income Act, the introduction of some relief, plus a complementary matter, which is an increase in child protection transfers, this will result in certain additional expenditure, which is why the balance is urgently needed and we are working on it. We'll get the balance. But I will tell you in advance what some of you fear and warn us, yes, because this was largely ready when we were making the 2008 budget, we consciously decided to prepare it for lower economic growth assessments. Why? Because of what I said at the outset, because the risks to downwards were present and we did not want to create some of the expectations of further economic growth, as we had in 2006 and 2007, so that this could be reduced, therefore it is based on 4.6% of economic growth, which none of those who assess the matter from the outside consider that it was, I don't know, strangely optimistic. We will prepare the balance, but in any way we will try to keep what we have achieved. Look, here's another thing that I think needs to be clarified again. When I listen to certain presentations in the National Assembly, I feel that this is not clear to many. Above all, it was not clear last night when the Nationalist reported on Mr Almunia's speech in the Echoes, and they said he congratulated us because we have a deficit of minus 1%. They obviously didn't understand anything. And I'll explain to you what this is all about. All countries, in accordance with the 2005 renewed Stability Pact, have not only the right but the duty to present to the European Commission their vision in which we are going and what this is and what the medium-term objective for public finances should be, as regards the structural deficit. Slovenia then presented that for our medium-term goal is minus 1%. This has been accepted by the European Commission and based on the argument that we have also presented that we are a country in transition, which must inevitably make certain investments and that our medium-term objective can be that. And that was approved. That was the end of 2005. At the beginning of 2007, more specifically in April, in the Economic and Financial Council, which we had in Berlin, we decided together, and this was unanimously agreed, one conclusion that, given that we are obviously in very good times, we will all try to achieve this medium-term objective for Slovenia minus 1 as soon as possible and in 2010 at the latest. That was the conclusion. After consulting my colleagues in the Government, I also agreed on this on behalf of Slovenia and committed myself to it. That's what we've been doing. Now, if it's an accident or not, it's more of a rhetorical problem than a fact, if they have any facts, let them bring them in and let the figures show. But I don't know how this coincidence can be measured. In any case, we have exceeded this goal because minus 1 is a little bit larger than minus 0.2, so we have exceeded this in 2007 not in 2010, but already in 2007. And this is the achievement of the Republic of Slovenia. We could be proud of this, we must be proud of these things, because these things are not done by one minister, not by one government, and only one society that is aware of this is positive that this is actually the basis for a better common future. That's it. What have we achieved? We've gone beyond this medium-term goal. And our commitment is, not only then that we will achieve this, we have already surpassed that we will not do it again, as it was. From now on, I can assure you that the 2008 budget rebalancing, which we are now working on, will be able to include all these things that you have given us on the basis of the legislation that has been adopted, will require us not to return to that period where Slovenia was outside its medium-term objective and, if possible, to retain what we have already achieved. That's all for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Economy. Mr. Tomaž Jeršič, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I will not hold back much time on the causes of inflation, and we have heard a lot about this from Minister Bayuk, on the part of you Members, I would like to focus in particular on measures for which the Ministry of the Economy is directly or directly responsible and which are already in place to alleviate these inflationary pressures. Let me remind you that the Office for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia did not start its work last year, but strengthened its activities last year mainly because it has seen strong price increases on the market itself, inflationary pressures and, above all, stronger price increases in the Republic of Slovenia than in the European Union area. I will continue to list some of the activities that the Competition Protection Office has been carrying out for quite some time and also for the present. One of these activities is to identify possible infringements of competition rules by commercial companies and suppliers of meat and milk products. In accordance with those competences, the Office of Competition Protection conducted a survey between companies and suppliers on the basis of which it obtained information on the situation in the supply market of goods to traders in Slovenia in order to increase the price of living needs in Slovenia in particular in September 2007. On the basis of the information obtained on the likelihood of a breach of competition rules both on the part of companies and suppliers, the Competition Protection Authority acted in accordance with its powers and in December 2007 introduced procedures to determine infringements of competition rules against certain companies. In particular, due to the coordinated conduct of the decision to authorise the price rise of products and to decide on the prohibition or requirement to suspend the supplier’s cooperation with certain trading companies. This is mainly a serious infringement of the procedures imposed. Procedures have also been introduced against suppliers of bakery products, meat and milk. The next activity in the second segment is the assessment of a likely breach of competition rules by electricity distributors in the supply of electricity to domestic customers. As regards the rise in electricity prices for household consumers, the Office of Competition Protection has initiated a procedure against distribution companies for breach of competition rules because they have simultaneously announced an increase in household electricity prices. This practice is likely to result in companies agreeing or cohesively acting to increase household electricity prices, as these increases were announced simultaneously, in almost the same amount and with the entry into force on the same day. This should be done in a coordinated manner or in agreement with regard to the fixing of prices and other operating conditions on the market, the effect of which is to prevent, limit or eliminate competition on the common market of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, let me remind you of some elements in determining electricity prices in the Republic of Slovenia. While the price for the use of the network is under the supervision of the market regulator, this is the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Energy, the price for the supply of energy to eligible customers is set free on the market on the basis of supply and demand. The electricity prices for household consumers were controlled and regulated by the State by 1 July 2007. After 1 July 2007, prices for the supply of energy to domestic customers are also set free on the market. In this way, the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia has lost the possibility to regulate and influence the prices of this energy. By 1 July 2007, the country gradually adjusted its price-to-market price level with price policy. Since the opening of the market, domestic consumers also have a trend in adapting to market assessments by companies selling electricity to domestic consumers on the basis of the purchase price of energy from wholesalers. Let me also remind you of the composition of the price, the net price of electricity. The net electricity price consists of the price for the use of the network and the price for the supply of energy. Part of the net electricity price is also an addition to the network to cover the costs of compulsory electricity purchase. This supplement was reduced by a few percent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its last meeting in January. In practice, this means mitigating the rise in electricity price from the forecast 6% to 4%, i.e. a reduction in the price of electricity in the final account by about 2 percentage points. Of course, there is also excise duty and value added tax on this net price. However, we must not forget that there is a trend in the global liberalised market of balancing electricity prices across the whole area. Due to the changed global electricity market situation, this is a lack of electricity, and in the fact that Slovenia does not cover all the needs of this energy from its own sources, the impact of the increase in electricity prices from the environment is also transferred to us. Let me return to the activities of the Competition Protection Office at this time. One of the activities is also the introduction of procedures under official responsibility in view of the likely abandonment of the notification of alleged concentrations. In view of the suspension of the notification of alleged concentration and the likelihood of non-compliance of the concentration under consideration with competition rules due to the vertically related product markets and the high market power on the markets in which the participating companies operate, the Competition Authority has initiated a procedure against companies which are to obtain joint control over each company. The Competition Authority notes that the cross-sectional ownership of companies which are capitalised in certain companies could have a negative impact on competition on the market and therefore examine the existing ownership links between companies in the Republic of Slovenia with a view to determining whether, in some cases, the concerted performance of corporate owners in the exercise of rights arising from ownership and whether such behaviour would actually constitute joint control in the company and what effect this could have on effective competition on the market. With regard to strengthening the competitiveness of the non-changing sector, the Office of Competition Protection proposes the participation of a representative of the Office for the Protection of Competition in potential labour bodies dealing with the competitiveness of the non-changing sector. Finally, but very importantly, let us not forget, in the procedure in the National Assembly there is a bill on the participation of workers in profits. I believe that, with your support, this law will see the light of the world at the end of the month. Perhaps it is not necessary to mention just a few of the vital innovations that this law brings. The proposed law will undoubtedly increase the effectiveness of the Office for the Protection of Competition, in particular due to higher fines in relation to the possibility of suspension of sanctions and extended limitation of time limits, consistent regulation of the method of obtaining data with appropriate monetary penalties, an extension of the scope of investigative powers for seized items and the possibility of increasing the exercise of powers to the representative of the Office for the Protection of Competition and the initiation of proceedings against the Office for the Protection of Competition in the event of restrictive conduct under official duties. Applicants therefore do not have the position of a customer. The next segment I would like to highlight is regulated prices. Undoubtedly, the fact that anti-inflationary and income policy measures must also be supported by price policy. In particular, with the continuation of the policy orientations of regulated prices so far. This will allow the return of inflation to a balanced level of around 3% already in 2008, which will also be crucial in the medium term for maintaining the price and cost competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Therefore, at its last meeting in 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted, at the proposal of the Ministry of Economy and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, a plan for regulating regulated prices for 2008 and 2009. With a plan, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ensures that the macroeconomic growth of regulated prices is maintained in 2008 and 2009. The plan takes into account the following guidelines: the overall price growth, which is under different forms of regulation even in the next two years, will not exceed the free price growth. This is without the price of petroleum derivatives and natural gas. The next is an increase in individual prices, which under different forms of regulation will not significantly deviate from the increase in the free-forming price levels unless it is a systemic regulation of the area. The plan provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take into account, as a general principle, in harmonising tax burdens and taxes, in addition to the legislation already adopted which provides for the harmonisation of tax rates with rates in the European Union, that their increases do not exceed the target price growth. At the beginning of today's meeting, Minister Vizjak has already highlighted some figures that will appear on the basis of these regulated prices in the future, but it is not too much to repeat them. The increased prices in the plan are proposed so that the increase in prices under direct control by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2008 will not exceed 0.35%, which will contribute 0.05 percentage points to inflation in 2008. Estimated increases in fiscal burdens are also included in this calculation. This is a contribution to the supply reserves. In 2009, the increase in regulated prices under direct control of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to be 0.34% and will contribute 0.05 percentage points to inflation. The overall increase in prices under various forms of regulation will also depend in 2008 and 2009 on the movement of the US dollar and oil prices on the world market, which will determine the trends in the prices of liquid fuels for transport and heating in Slovenia, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia specifies only the mechanism by which these prices are designed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also concluded that it expects independent regulators, local communities and economic associations to take into account the direction of this plan when designing prices under their competence or when making decisions that may affect prices. The Ministry of Economy and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development will analyse the implementation of the plan and propose an amendment if necessary. Finally, I would like to mention some more consumer information activities. The Ministry of the Economy has also adopted certain measures and activities to mitigate the effects of inflation with a view to better informing consumers. The objective of the activities and measures set out below is in particular to inform consumers of developments in the price of basic food products. We want to tell consumers that they can make an important contribution to price rebalancing by buying where these products are cheaper. The campaign of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, the monitoring of prices of products and services before and after the introduction of the euro, has contributed to a successful transition, according to expert and general public estimates and the European Commission. With the new currency, Slovenia increased consumer sensitivity to prices and, by exposing disproportionate price increases, it had not seen inflation at the beginning of 2007. The cooperation of the Ministry of Economy and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection with the NGO of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia is carried out as a continuation of the price monitoring project, which took place between October 2007 and January 2008, in which the NGO of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, in the form of press conferences, informed the public of its findings. New activities have already been agreed between the Ministry of Economy, the Office for Consumer Protection and the Union of Slovenia for a price monitoring project whereby the Union of Slovenian Consumers will monitor prices of 35 basic representative food products, which have the highest share of the consumer basket per week. These are bread and flour products, strong products, meat and products, milk and its products, fruit, vegetables, fats and other foods, of each group of 3 to 7 products. And they will, together with the other authorities at press conferences or in other forms, keep the public informed. If necessary, the list will be extended during the year and prices will be monitored in six trading chains. Data on the price and price levels of individual products and traders will be presented at weekly press conferences. The monthly press conferences will also present the activities and findings of all participants, the Ministry of the Economy, the Office for Consumer Protection, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that by the end of the month enough data will be available to prepare a code of conduct on the market, which will include the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to monitor traders regarding the labelling of products with prices, origin and quality composition of products. In particular, he will check the advertising of favourable purchases. The measures taken so far by market inspections have been well received by consumers, as we know. In April, we will also inform the public of the findings of the earnings analysis in the chain of producers, processors, importer, wholesaler and retailer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your read answer. We continue on the basis of the list of reported discussers. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I believe that it would be good to ask how much added value today's extraordinary meeting and its debaters have added to the decline in inflation in the future, following an almost eight-year debate. I must say, I have seriously wondered what the purpose of today's extraordinary session is. After 4 hours and 40 minutes, one of the discussers found that today’s extraordinary meeting had reached its purpose. I expected the president to give us a break so that we could go for a beer that we had already been sent by a well-known expert, which has been mentioned many times today. Since this was not the case, I would suggest that in the shortest possible time, at least for those of us who have been sitting here for eight hours, you order a break to go for coffee at least. Inflation is not a problem - I have not heard from the Minister of Finance to say today that inflation is not a problem. It's a problem. There is also another problem: how we are discussing inflation here in the National Assembly: either from a political point of view, a professional point of view or somehow mixed - political-professional. Suddenly, we all became inflation experts here in the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Masters and Doctors, we suddenly became all experts. You know, I seriously doubt that we all have the same abilities as Mrs Kresal, who was on one of the TV shows, was also a topic of inflation, and suddenly she remembered that she had passed a political economy exam in college. This led to the mastery of inflation as a whole. Another minister even took a little note, which he remembered, yes, because I also studied or passed an economics exam among others. And that kind of debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u69	Comrade Gulic, Comrade Anderlich, I beg you not to disturb the speaker!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u70	Such a debate, such an approach by some, I speak from a professional point of view, I do not think it is correct, so I am very respectful and give it to Minister Bajuk, when he has had a bit of a laugh, czech, even doctoral and master's titles do nothing to help us if we are not revealed, we are not honest, we are not saying what is actually proven on the professional salary. [[...]] Today I heard for the first time here in the National Assembly that after 2004 the system of development of Slovenia changed. This was announced today by one of the candidates for the extraordinary meeting. The system of development of Slovenia has changed since 2004. He did not fully explain what he meant, but he certainly meant that this was the result that we now feel after three years, including inflation, and before that good economic growth. But look who created this good economic growth. Who created the conditions? Who, in fact, is the one who creates this development? For me, the economic and non-economic sector. And if anyone is, then this government has made the economy a good condition for producing good results, with an appropriate tax policy that has literally burdened the economy. And after three years, I'm sure you know that. And this is known for its high economic growth. However, we cannot deny that this good economic growth has neither affected or affected inflation. But absurdity seems to me that as one of the very important arguments on the basis of what he said earlier, it is also stated in the proposal of the opposition or the applicants of today's extraordinary session - to abolish the pay tax as soon as possible. The tax on paid wages is just another instrument to relieve the economy. That was also the goal of this government. And this has helped us to have tremendous economic growth, certainly because the economy is developing enormously. And by giving the tax on paid wages, if this is the final absurdity, we will, in fact, give the company an even greater chance of making it easier and better developed to put more into development. I'm also in favour of abolishing the pay-out tax as soon as possible. But not at the same time, when you criticize one good gesture, on the other hand you propose something like this that is contrary to the first. Also, colleague Lahovnik, I need to replicate or remind you that he has repeated the same thing twice today. Budget deficit or surplus because we did not draw on European funds. It's a delusion. Those who know at least a little mathematics - because I think that colleague Lahovnik is working - know that there are European funds on the revenue side, on the expenditure side, and these same expenditure resources are, of course, co-financing domestic funding. And if we haven't exhausted 100% of the European funds, we've given less participation. This is perfectly logical, but at the same time there is a greater deficit on the revenue side. Given that I will leave time to my colleagues and colleagues, I will end this and support the conclusions drawn by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Inflation in Slovenia is already a cancer in the history of our economy. A little something to remember or look into the past. In 1991, we ended up with 347% inflation, which was more than 100% year-on-year until 1999. That's enough to refresh your memory. Only since 2000 has inflation dropped below 10%. I, of course, attribute this result not only to this Government, but to the decision to join the European Monetary Union. There has been a general consensus on this project. And all the institutions and the economy have been involved in this project. The motives and measures have been large enough and successful enough to successfully join the European Monetary Union and take over the euro. I claim that after this event and success came an account, encouraged by high energy growth and somewhat unexpected, if we are honest, the high growth of primary food products. All comparisons of prices after entry into the European Union have become transparent and comparable, both with neighbouring Austria and Italy. Of course, the salaries of most Slovenian citizens remain Slovenian, causing the cost of living in wage structure to be higher than in neighbouring European countries. Surely it would be naive for inflation to blame or seek only one reason. Both the culprits and the causes of inflation are more and everyone has contributed their share. The cause of inflation in Slovenia could also partly be explained by Balassa - Samuelson’s effect. This is actually the cause of inflation looking for greater productivity or, in other words, real growth, which is characteristic in Slovenia at this time. Until the entry into the ERM-2 we managed the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and as a result we managed productivity growth through a foreign exchange rate. By entering ERM-2, however, the course has become fixed, while we have started double-labelling prices, a large anti-progando against possible price increases, supervision of the Consumer Protection Office and similar actions. Therefore, inflation was low during this period. If they were not so active in propaganda and control, inflation would have shown itself during this period and would not have met the Maastricht criteria for taking over the euro. Following entry into the euro area, the price stability propaganda was still in operation for a while and in the second half of 2007 operators began to behave marketably. Because of the successful destruction of local traders, we now have three major trading chains that mostly control Slovenian trade. These traders, who undisputedly negotiate and dictate trade prices as well as primary food production, are not in any way prepared or transparent to present their margins nor to reduce their greed for profit. We could reduce our margins to the exact same amount as they had before the price hikes of suppliers and thus help our share, and in particular we should give up the various unjustified ratings that are to the refugees in our country. They could also lower product prices on trade shelves. Of course, the government will not be able to wait for this, as the main word is that the owners, whose main purpose is to influence the public opinion that this would not turn to the investigation into how they came to the fabulous sums to take over the entire chain of companies. Export growth from October 2006 to October 2007 was around 13%. The increase in exports affected the productivity of the Slovenian economy, and this also affected inflation after the already mentioned Balassa - Samuelson effect. What is currently going on in Slovenia will happen, in my opinion and also in the opinion of some others, also to other less developed countries than the average in the European Union, which will still be included in the European Monetary Union. The effect will last for as long as the competitiveness of their economy does not decrease or export prices will not adapt to European prices. At the same time, Balassa - Samuelson’s effect in Slovenia also encounters considerable debt abroad. This is particularly evident in companies. While part of the debt is likely to focus on increasing productivity, part of it focuses on consumption and thus also affects price increases. This is especially evident in construction. We can also look for one of the causes of inflation in Slovenia on the Slovenian stock exchange. Exchange rates were often raised due to speculation after the acquisition of companies and not according to the performance of these companies. Profits in sales represented an additional source of income, which again, I speak in part, undoubtedly translated into consumption and thus affected the rise in demand and, consequently, prices. The first package of measures has already been proposed by the Government, we have already adopted them at an extraordinary meeting in January, and a measure to increase minimum wages and budget rebalancing is expected for 2008. Both have already been announced and there is no reason not to believe in the success of these additional measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Drofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u74	Good-bye! Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! I am of the opinion that today's debate on inflation would probably not be necessary, and I believe that the government has already taken action to reduce the impact of inflation on the lowest income segments of the population. This does not, of course, mean that the problem of inflation is negligible. The problem of inflation is great. I would say that this is actually a dangerous problem for the economy, but also a dangerous problem for the population. Here in Parliament we are mostly all born in those years to remember well the 1970s, the 1980s in the previous country, when we also met with two-digit inflations for a month. I'm just going to say a little joke about what inflation is at the time. Inflation is a phenomenon, and we were talking when the state quietly stole money from your wallet. That's probably a non-economic explanation. This means that I am not underestimating the problem of inflation, nor do we underestimate it in the Slovenian People's Party, but I do not think that today would be compared with those in the 1970s or 1980s. In my humble opinion, because I am not an economist, inflation is not affected by fiscal policy in 2007, and even the relatively high rate of growth did not result in this inflation. I would say, however, that somehow three are the main causes, which has also been made clear from all the discussions, especially by the representatives of the Government today, which is the first cause of the rise in food and energy prices for sure. Secondly, perhaps a little less, at least in my opinion, we do not emphasise it, but I think it should be stressed, it is almost a year and a half, or even two years, of a consensus before entering the euro area, when some consensus has been reached in the country, perhaps even in some way of artificially containing prices and thus reaching the Maastricht criteria so that we can reach the conditions for taking over the euro. And actually, six months after the euro was adopted, the story of excessive inflation in Slovenia actually began. And perhaps all of us have underestimated slightly the impact of taking the euro on inflation, which did not happen at the time, but happened a bad year later. The third reason I see is because of the market structure, where in fact 80 to 90% of the market share of the food chain is controlled by three large companies, which not only control the retail segment, control, I think the economists call it vertical integration. And here I would also say, if we remember a decade ago, on the one hand, the close development of trade, and on the other hand the almost destruction of food processing, let it be dairy, let it be butchers and so on. Now it's kind of coming together. We adopted the euro, the connection is settled, there is no competition, the monopolies are established, and I think we came at a time when these things are being exploited. And in the last decade, who's the most invested? Trade has invested. This means that she has been in a situation that is, after all, easy. I would also say that this particular non-competitiveness in the trade sector has caused those of us from rural areas to lose trade after 10, 15 kilometres in villages, all small trade is destroyed, not perspective. And this is also one of the reasons why competition does not literally work. I think it was also a major problem that in the past the Anti-competitive Office did not work, because if it did, I doubt that these links would occur. Perhaps it is also a shame that this government, this coalition, did not begin to tackle this problem more intensively immediately after 2004, because it might be able to solve it. And I think that this is one of the major problems, and I welcome that in the last year of this area, a number of developments have occurred that now these links of related companies are trying to be discovered and also prevent. Finally, I would say that I believe that the government, with great sensitivity, must monitor the situation, take care of the most socially vulnerable and, above all, establish competition or prevent connections that increase monopolies, or those monopolies should be reduced in one way or another. I am also convinced that a stable competitive European market will also slowly regulate our market's reverse impact. Finally, I would just like to say that I will support the proposals adopted by the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today there is a power to hear many different interpretations, different economic concepts and it is very difficult to create the credibility of opinions on individual data. It will be very interesting to see an opinion on the assessments made by such eminent people as the Minister of Finance Dr. Bajuk and the Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Marko Kranjec. One says that the structural deficit is 0.2%, while in yesterday's Evening we can read when the Governor of Banka Slovenije says that there is a structural deficit, which can be proved, and certainly amounts to more than a percentage of the gross social product. Time will tell you who's right. If it turns out that someone is wrong, it will be a very unpleasant truth for the one who talks about it and thus gives a different kind of information. That we have tried many times in the opposition to make correct, constructive proposals to this government, we can tell a variety of magnetograms from this period. Unfortunately, many times this government did not listen. This also raises the question whether Minister Bajuk is talking about the facts, why we are not talking about these facts today, which have brought the Government into the situation, that after very rapid procedures it has had to change certain social transfers, which we have pointed out is inappropriate legal solutions that have been prepared without professional analysis, without grounds, without simulations of effects. It turned out that at the time the opposition had found the true facts. That is why today, too, there is doubt as to whether it is going to be so quickly to trust such a vehement performance by the finance minister here today. With this performance, which also speaks of the result of this government's policy that we have today's budget surplus. Of course, I would like to draw attention again to the opinion of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who is talking about the fact that this has happened to this government. That this has indeed happened to this government is also evidenced by the predictions made by this government. And at the adoption of the 2007 budget in November 2006, the government deficit was projected at 0.9%. As early as September 2007, a government deficit of 0.3% was forecast. And the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia points out that the surplus of the budget at the end of 2007 is an event that happened to the Government, but that it was not able to predict it on the basis of the policies it had proposed through the budget and on the basis of the legislative changes it had proposed. More. What happened to us? The government has forecasted prosperity for citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia - we have welcomed the treasure. Today, the government is talking about shocks caused by external influences. Manufacturers in the European Union and the euro area somehow follow other countries in Slovenia, while traders do not follow this. Let us ask ourselves what the government’s conduct was like. Is there any example that could be followed by the government in the immediate vicinity so that it could act more effectively? Here I will only tell the successful practice of our neighbour, the Republic of Croatia, where they reached an agreement with the main merchants that the prices raised immediately before February will return to the starting point. So the government actively reached out to traders and managed to lower the prices of basic necessities of life, namely bread, milk and oil, by 10 to 12%. There is a question whether the Government regards this measure as unnecessary or inadequate or not. We didn't hear anything about it today. Interestingly, the government speaks very well about the analysis of the situation and events, why there has been a situation, while it speaks very poorly about what has been done. And the criticism of the opposition and the motioners of this meeting goes in the direction that action by the Government is inappropriate in view of the events that are taking place. And if there are shocks, then the measures must also be intense shocks. And given that there was no such intensity, today's debate is more than justifiable. How can the Ministry or the Government, speaking of facts, hear the warnings of two humanitarian organisations, the Red Cross and Karitas, which say that there has never been such a great demand for people living on the social side, for clothing, for food, for help, as has been the case lately. How do you respond to such a successful social policy and, in such a successful regulation of social transfers, where you have said when introducing that it is millions of euros in budget savings, this does not affect any of them. It's a perpetum cell phone - taken from someone, and everyone has more. You've also admitted this through error and brought laws by intervention, which partially remedied all these measures. And here Dr. Kranjec is right, the government wasn't aiming this way. That's what happened. Inflation has taken place and there has been a significant social threat to a large number of people, as this government has predicted. That's what your actions say. And it is interesting that you did not allow this National Assembly to discuss the law on correction, the coordination of social transfers before you adopted these laws. And then we discussed it in a way that was not worth this house, where the government responded with three minutes of discussion. These are real problems and these are facts, Mr. Finance Minister. These are facts that I do not make up, given that this is the power to find in official documents or statements by people who present individual areas. It is therefore right that we are talking today about the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be very interesting to hear why the government has not entered into intensive agreements with those who, as you say, are from 10% to 15%, so from 5% raised the prices for traders. This matter is very interesting, with the Government playing an active role at the time of the concentration. Minister Bajuk said today that in the last four years, between 50% and 90% of us are talking about concentration. Let us ask ourselves who has made this concentration possible in the last four years. Could it be this government or some other government? There is even an investigative commission on this subject, and how this concentration has been made possible within this government. Here we need to give answers to people who are difficult to make up the beginning of the month at the end of the month. And here is more than just the words of Minister Visiak, who says, "Yes, we also expect proper or positive consumer behaviour." You know, this government has very negatively marked these consumers as to how they should carry out this behaviour. In particular, Minister Vizjak said it would be good if these consumers also ate old bread, that it was not necessary to go and buy fresh bread. But when workers have warned that wages that do not follow the price rise to be good, the Prime Minister estimates that people should fight for their rights when the weather is better. This cynicism, on the other hand, warns 'don't pressure on raise wages, be patient, wait, given that things will be settled by themselves, because the government does not act. We are all warned: raise wages, new increased inflation, spiral cycle and unstable economic conditions. Therefore, the reasons why the opposition, the proposer of this meeting, requested this meeting. And I want to find here a consensus between the opposition and the coalition and the government in such a way as to find good proposals for conclusions. Exclusion from one another will not bring a good result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Inflation is a serious matter, but it also means that a serious approach is needed. Today, we have also been able to hear evidence that the conscripts of this session have already spoken and called for inflation to be taken seriously and so forth. However, allow me to remind you that you have called before, but something else. You called the minister and asked him at every meeting what happened to public finances, when they would collapse. Why the government has given too much for pensions, to better offset pensions with salaries and that Slovenian finances will collapse by 2015. Even more. You also sent such information to European addresses, including the European Central Bank. Of course, these data do not hold, and this has certainly now proved to be a delusion, that it was the profanity of Slovenia, the Slovenian government. You may have thought that you would be maligning only the Slovenian government, but you were mistaken. You have maligned Slovenia because the data was false. You have also deceived citizens when you said that this government has given too much for the pensioners and that this will cause the Slovenian finances to collapse, but that is not true. Today, we see that even the public financial deficit has been reduced, that it has never been as low as it is now, and even though the government is giving more to offset, for pensions, the financial system has not collapsed, we even have an surplus in the budget. That's what they say, all that was outside of it. That's what you said back then. And after all this, who will believe you? And also this approach, what we can hear about inflation today, does not suggest that inflation is a serious issue and that it needs to be taken seriously. I'm not going to go into why you did this, what you meant. That's another thing. Allow me some specific information so that no one will claim I am speaking. Inflation is a serious issue and it is also necessary to make some comparisons, analyses and one of the important comparisons is, say, inflation or inflation growth compared to economic growth. This is very important. If you allow me to go back to history, in 1995, economic growth was 4% and inflation was 12 and something else. In 1996, 3.6% of economic growth, almost 10% of inflation, in 2000 was 4.2% of economic growth and 9% of inflation. Inflation is said to have been significantly higher, even twice or three times higher than economic growth. Surprisingly, in 2005 4% economic growth and 2.5% inflation. In 2006, 5.2% economic growth, 2.5% inflation growth, 2007 7.2% economic growth, 2.4% inflation growth, vice versa. But something else is interesting! In 2000, when inflation was twice or three times higher than economic growth, you were talking about a success story. It is no big deal that they also heard it abroad and that there was a good voice abroad about Slovenia, and even then the opposition did not challenge it and did not send it to 300 addresses abroad, how this is not true! Today, when there are significantly better results, when the relationship between economic growth in inflation is favourable, it is significantly different, it is sent to 300 addresses abroad or more about how everything is catastrophic in Slovenia. I won't tell you who it is. Even the official institutes were sending, I'll say, Banka Slovenije was sending misleading data to the European Central Bank to bring down the Slovenian financial system due to excessive pension benefits. You see, and this is the essential difference between the opposition then and the present. At the time we supported that Slovenia had a good reputation in Slovenia and we did not try to mud Slovenia with anything, and the results were certainly worse! Today, when the results are so good, this opposition is talking about disaster in Slovenia and sending to Europe and the Council how many addresses the worst data, what is happening in Slovenia as negative. That's not true! Everything you've said so far has turned out to be unreal! Mr. Squeakle had a lot of stuff and he was here harassing the minister about what it was, and everything turned out to be wrong! I wanted to show you the difference between the then and the present opposition. And one more thing, we have data that Slovenia has been giving in recent years for social protection 17 and a few percent of gross domestic product, most of all items; for example, for education and for health care, a little more than 6, and for social protection 17. And let someone else say that this is not a social state! No one can see that! And when we talk so much about social protection, there's something else I'd like to say. About the poverty threshold. So much deception, so much false information is given here, of course the threshold of poverty is not pleasant information, but it must be compared with other countries. This is not something constant, something fixed, but in different countries it is different, but with regard to the situation in countries. And look, in Slovenia this threshold of EUR 5,589 is 12%. Too much, really. But if we compare with other countries of the European Union, we will see where we are. For example, the average in the European Union is 16%, significantly higher than in Slovenia [[....]] [[talking to each other]] In the European Union, 16% - according to data. [[...]] [[...]] [[A question from the bench.]] EUR 5589. [[...]] This is the information for Slovenia. Different countries. [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] Yes, depending on prices, depending on salary, depending on social transfers. [[...]] And Slovenia gives a lot of social transfers. Now allow me, with the same data, on the same calculations, 15% in Belgium, more than in Slovenia, 12% in Denmark, roughly the same as in Slovenia, 13% in Germany, 18% in Estonia, say, in Ireland 18%, in Greece 21%, I will find one that is even better, but very difficult in the Netherlands is 10%. [[...]] Of course, that information is different, but for that money it gets the same. That's the difference, that's the one -- yeah, the people of God, and then really, well, then I'll end up telling you, because I want someone else to say something, and I've read what some economist wanted to warn us about today. [[...]] He said: "The government obviously does not like to run an anti-Nflation theater, but the opposition simply cannot resist the temptation to speak nonsense and thereby prove its competence for time after the elections". If you've denied me that information, yes, this economist has heard what you've just said. That's exactly what it is! And there's something else I'd like to draw your attention to before I finish. You said that in Slovenia we should reduce investment, we should reduce the construction of motorways because it somehow raises the inflation spiral. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you, yes, tell you what highway section we're going to cross. You're saying we should cut down, tell us which section, and maybe the government will do it, but the government thinks it's necessary to build it. And you know, even as you made a mistake with pensioners, that the government gives too much, you can be wrong here, even though the government gives a lot for investments that you say are bad. But, if you remember, those who sat here in previous budgets, in previous governments, you always said, "for investments, the state will give so much, but that's just positive, and that's that progress, that's that positive budget," and now the same people are saying that this is bad. Yeah, people, where did you study economics? Or do you not want to keep the same criteria for every government; as you please, so say you. I will not support these conclusions, because I think that is also true of what this recognised economist wrote when he said: "At such a time it is good to remember the old liberal principle that the market economy manages itself better than governments and parliaments do." I agree with that, and I will only support the conclusions that have emerged on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Mag. Squeakle, I can't give you a replica because you haven't discussed it yet; as a debater, you're not registered. But you can discuss it as a proponent. As a proposaler, however, I remind you that you have two minutes from the 18 minutes left to proposers. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u80	Very briefly, because Mr Petan needs to be answered. If what Mr Petan is saying were true, then it would be primarily the case that the opposition then spoke nonsense and now the position speaks nonsense, only to quote with two arguments. You claimed it was 9% inflation, 3% growth minus 6. That's not true because the categories are always real. As regards the transmission of data to Europe, the Bank of Slovenia is an integral part of the European Central Bank. It doesn't send anything to Europe, but Europe is already here. And the Ministry of Finance sends nothing to Europe because the Ministry of Finance is an integral part of Ecofin and as an integral part of Ecofina sends a stability programme. And these data and these assessments of the European Union and the European Central Bank have been based on data from the Republic of Slovenia since we became an integral part of the European Union on 1 May 2004. Hello!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u82	As a proponent, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u83	No, you don't have any more time than the proponent, you've wasted your time. But you didn't discuss it. Mr. Miran Potč is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, that the hateful mood towards the opposition and the accusations that we have put on the agenda a topic that does not concern citizens and citizens will not help you, will harm you. Citizens and citizens today feel that inflation is a serious problem. And if a quarter or about a quarter of people can't connect the place to the place and move 10% or more of the food price, then they certainly don't care if it's enough to fight inflation done or not. If today those who have been trusted by the Government to have enough savings to buy shares in the New Bank of Maribor are watching each day as real as they are losing after 2, 3, 5 percent of their modest assets they have loaded in banks or shares, then they probably don't care and they can't have as pink an assessment of the situation as you see it. If today it is known that the system of interest taxes with real inflation and interest that anyone receives from any bank loses at least 2% of the real value, then it is also likely that, Mr State Secretary with cynical smile or not, citizens and citizens do not care. And we'd like their perspective to be better. And that is all the wish of the opposition that triggered this debate. I was happy with that part of the Minister's debate when he said in the second part that he wanted us to form joint tasks and common knowledge of the coalition and the opposition in order to try to resolve what is not yet good. The first part of the debate, however, was like that of Mr Petan. You said that we only raised inflationary expectations that we were irresponsibly talking about our situation abroad, that today we were talking about problems invented and without any basis, that those who demanded a reduction of expenditure should say where these expenses should be taken as the responsibility of the opposition, not of the coalition, to provide the whole policy. Such an approach makes no sense to me, and I think it is a shame that the National Assembly is also pursuing it when the topic has current content and is most well-intentioned. Now it's just two, three things. Mr Minister has tried to point out several times, and I believe he was right about the data. That the price differentials at the expense of imported inflation cover about four fifths of our growth, I understand. I want to know what's wrong with one fifth. This one-fifth is 20% if I take a fifth, and if I take 6 and that's the percentage, it's 1.2% real. If 1.2% were to reduce our price growth, we would be very close to or one percent to the average price growth in the EU countries, but today we are almost twice higher, slightly rounded up, I admit, up. Why isn't it said? We may still have a chance in these areas to do something to improve the situation. Secondly, the conclusions were proposed. I signed them, personally I'm sure they're not only good, they're well-meaning. Okay, not everyone's the way they're supposed to be. But, gentlemen of the coalition, don't tell me that after now the National Assembly, although it will be formally true, because it will only be a coalition, will reject any proposal concerning the resolution of things forward, and adopt conclusions that confirm that the government's work so far has been ideal for back with all the data. You think that's a good idea? Do you believe yourself? Or this is what the government and the finance minister believe, and the economy, and the Minister for Labour, that there was not one small mistake that was made that would be worth thinking about not saying fix. But that's your style of work! This guy can't get anywhere. That's why in the end, because we'll be able to ask the Minister and the Government in June, July, September, and that's when we're really gonna ask. Tell us how much growth you're providing us in 2008. How much inflation do you guarantee in 2008? What balance of payments do you provide or anticipate in 2008? Will wages grow in 2008 in the real sector and in public services according to productivity? Will social transfers ensure that the social disparities between the most vulnerable and the richest do not increase from day to day? If you give me positive, specific answers to that, there's probably nothing else to do. But if you're going to stir up, like you've done so many times about all the other answers, then you don't mind, you can't be trusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've been following this debate quite disciplined myself all day, expecting to hear what was foretold. For today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, however, the preparation of measures that will have an impact on the reduction of inflation has been announced. I'm sorry, I've been disappointed so far, I haven't heard anything that I haven't heard before, except for some inputs that smelled a little bit like ethical interventions in the economy, which I wouldn't support anyway. It was better to hear the repetition of known numbers, the quoting of distinguished experts, some critics at the expense of the government and some apologies also uncritical as regards government action. I agree that everything that has been done by the Government has not been optimal. I agree that it is the power to say that some measures were too late. I agree if anyone's made it clear that any action that was expected was missing. However, it is not possible to agree that the government is somehow engaged in lethargy, that it is numb, that it actually does nothing, or that it does what it does only with some pretty moves. I'm trying to remember what really happened. And I would hope to say that I am not doing too much wrong if I assess that there was more to it than today just verbally directed, already done at the level of operational measures. We recall the January legislation we adopted. The pensioners who have been evolutionary all the time today have nothing to do with this debate today. However, I think they will be happy or happy to coordinate, at the time of the calculation, with the otherwise defined protective allowance, with widow's pensions and so on and so forth. They're gonna feel it for real. That wasn't just for performing then. The effects are such that the state, because of course these are not countercyclical measures, should, of course, amortise them. Unfortunately, when Mr Jeršič spoke, even less in the hall, I think that people like us now, and even those who sat there, did not listen. We have listened very rarely, but there have been some concrete actions that this ministry has taken and that can have some positive results in the future. I don't know if that's enough or not enough, it's probably not all that can be done. But it's impossible to say no one's doing anything. We in the DeSUS Group will support some of the other measures already announced: whether it is a rebalance, or a diatrical diet, or children's extra and so on. Well, a whole bunch of things are getting ready. And in the sense that a number of measures have already been taken, some have already been implemented, some have already been effective, and with the conclusions that we are going to take this evening, they point to the fact that the stakes are supposed to do so, in this sense these conclusions are behind reality, at least in part. Some things have happened in reality, and we are now recommending them. We have no prejudice when I say 'we',' I mean the Desus Group, including with regard to the proposed rebalancing that speaks, and some of them today had this to mention, that the defence budget would be dramatically reduced. All four of us, with all our strength, will support this, but it will be easier for us to endure this than for a whole range of people, 10,000 people, to suffer more than is necessary due to these price jumps and inflation, which is irrefutable. We will also support another measure that will be proposed, and we expect that any such measure will still be operational today, one that could be converted from an application to an operational measure so that something like this can be heard today. If such a power is heard, then it makes sense that we are still sitting here, but if we continue to repeat one and the same story until 23 p.m., then this sitting here really doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. First answer to Mr. Petan. October 27 was the day of the fight against poverty, and if you do not believe your data, then you must trust the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which wrote: "If you did not count on family and social benefits, the level of risk of poverty in Slovenia would be higher, namely 25%. This shows that social transfers have a beneficial impact on reducing the risk of poverty." That is true, but of this transfer, 43% of people live or enjoy it, as the Minister of Labour said earlier how much food we distribute. The risk of poverty was highest in women over 65 years of age, 36%. Dearly noted, on 23 October, we voted at the meeting of the National Assembly on my proposal for a decision to hold a debate at its meeting on the response of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marjetka Cotman to my parliamentary question regarding the strategy of the Ministry of Labour on poverty reduction. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected by 38 to 18 for. Before that, I wrote a public invitation to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janša, and to the President of the National Assembly, France Tsukjati, to convene an extraordinary meeting. And then, on October 19th, I actually called on the President of the country to do so because he has jurisdiction. No one's done it until today. When we concluded, even the president of the National Assembly said to me so, non-chalantly, "So gather your signatures!" We've got 'em! Why such dissatisfaction by citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, why? Today, too late, we are adopting a law that will allow workers to have the right to participate in profit, even though this profit is created and in some way justified. The lack of alignment of public sector wages with inflation and the growth of living costs has not yet been resolved. And the universal treasure that still doesn't look like the end is still unstoppable. And to the extreme extent, the discriminatory attitude towards the social partners is today a little better, because we are President of Europe, but tomorrow, tomorrow, you will witness that it will be non-chalant again - let them go on the roads. Does it get cold? Why didn't they choose the second day to strike? These will be the answers. Or "the crumb looks from the dumpsters, it's still good in the country." On the other hand, some are allowed everything, everything. They're allowed to steal on a white day, and that's for those who created it. I used to ask very clear questions to the minister, but he wouldn't answer them. Many have spoken before me about the fact that the European Union's resources are not exhausted, even though we know that we are now a net donor, that we are no longer a net recipient - as a state. And here I want to say that in the Slovenian National Party, we have already called on the Government to set up a committee, which will coordinate the work between ministries, because it has happened simply because of whether we have not applied for the tenders or whether there has been a discrepancy between the ministries that had to give separate opinions on a project, there has simply been no response. That is also what the former Minister of Transport, Mr Bozič, pointed out when he said that he had done his job, now it is with the Minister of Environment. And he spoke again to the Minister of Economics. And that's how millions went into oblivion, and the invitation to tender is down. Who was responsible for this? None of the state officials are responsible for the fact that Slovenia has not received grants. Again, we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros, which could also significantly improve our economic situation. What did I ask the Minister before? Today, I want to know a clear answer to the question when the root needs of Slovenia will stop. At the time of the introduction of the euro, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, once again, argued here that the war will not be at the time of the introduction of the euro. Today's a clean lie. And when, in fact, will this participation be allowed to profit those who make the profit? We know that we have this law in the adoption procedure, but I strongly believe that this will be so adopted that the measure will be short-term, we will probably put it back there in 2010. And when will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and can do so, consistently coordinate wage growth and, of course, pensions with inflation growth. This inflation is the government's fault and it is its duty if it has everything it needs in its hands to do what it thinks is necessary, as non-chalantly as it does that the opposition does not listen when it makes well-intentioned proposals. It is the government's duty to take on essentially responsibility. And not least, when you're going to check the origin of the property, the enormous property of all those who were ten and a half years ago completely average citizens and were driving a personal car in Zastava 101, but today they have so much money that they know about the first number, but they don't know how much the zeros behind that number, but they already remember because it goes into enormous numbers - their millions. And all of this is a generator of inflation, all of this is also a generator of poverty and saying that there is no poverty today is a pure lie. 25% of those who can't put together the beginning of the month at the end are talking about you here defending the government's work being lied to. I believe that today's debate will be a debate cycle, better said, in the end, it will turn out to be a symposia or as a congress here in the National Assembly, because you have already prepared your amendments, and you have slightly rejected our seven proposals or the solution of the opposition, as if no one in this National Assembly is smart enough for you to eat all your brains. The happiness of God is that it is less than 300 days before the elections, and that is the salvation for this people in Slovenia, and if there is any right on the part of those who will later receive this helm in their hands, then I say today from this city that it is their first duty to find the culprits for this calvary, which is happening today, because it has never gone so badly for the Slovenes, ever. I would like to give you another information, which is still not updated, which I have already said before; the price index for living needs [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Bajc, you will have your word! [[...]] In 1996 we recorded the index 100, in 2006 the index of living needs was 181. This is a disgrace to the Republic of Slovenia, a shame. If Article 2 of the Constitution states that we are a social state, then I suggest that we delete this article, so that we can at least be credible before Europe, because that is not true. All those who state how many other countries are in debt, please also state what the wages are in these countries. And then you will see that basically Slovenians can do 100% more than these same people in these countries, who get five times more for their work. And this is supposed to be equality, this is supposed to be European prosperity! Of course, that's what you call it, too, I don't know, a desire to persevere in this company. I ask you something else, however, who will be responsible for the situation when the state of Slovenia will have to assume the responsibility to participate in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia also in those countries which are in fact entitled to these funds. Then inflation will be even greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u90	Dear colleagues, everyone else, present. Well, the fact that the Slovenians never went as bad as they did today was really strong. Now some probably don't believe in official data and don't care about numbers, they don't care about data that Slovenia, as far as economic growth is concerned, is one of the most rapidly developing countries, that a general standard has been raised in all these years, that people live in different circumstances than they did 15, 20 years ago, that it also raised the level of consumption of all the other goods that we were not all receiving 20, 25, 30 years ago, as far as holidays, culture and all the other goods are concerned. But maybe we would remember, given that the debate on inflation, the high food prices, even the fact that 15 years ago we didn't have these modern ones, I don't know what I'd call it, the commercial entertainments or the centers we're going to today. If you go on Saturday, around 4:00, 5:00 p.m., you'll find it hard to find a parking spot in any area of the malls, with prices actually rising. And the sheet that's there, if you compare it to a picture 15 years ago, you'll see that for some two levels of middle class it's more favourable. What is good, which is good, which means that Slovenia is on the right track, that it is developing in the right direction and the task of this country is that the measures that have now affected those who are the poorest and will not be encountered in these mega centres are helping them to cope normally with these unpleasant situations, which, as you will hear, cannot take on all the responsibility of the Government, as some of you now justify. Today, we heard a lot from the opposition. There were few concrete suggestions, a little. Some, or some, were concrete measures already taken by the Government and forecasts of measures to be taken in the future, presented by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. However, in order to get to know this, we probably don't have to sit here for 12 hours and spend money on taxpayers and parliament. For these things we probably have other mechanisms to familiarize ourselves with these matters. Our task is to propose additional concrete measures that will be upgraded by what the Government proposes. And through the prism of what we are doing here today, we can assess the usefulness of this session today. Now, if some politicians already do not believe or believe politicians, especially those who sit in government benches, then let them read what different economists have written in recent days on this issue of inflation. Experts from different sexes, of course I do not count those experts who are former ministers or current Members or both, except the first. In the last month, they published a series of expert opinions, which were also empirically based on data. All of these agree that last year's inflation acceleration in our country is the result of global price growth in the agricultural product market, rising raw materials prices and oil prices. And why is this acceleration in Slovenia three times stronger than in other euro area countries? This is why they say that Slovenia differs mainly from the developed countries in terms of lower competitiveness in the production, processing, trade in food. So, what are we supposed to talk about here today? We are supposed to talk about how to improve the competitive situation in our market, not that inflation in Slovenia is caused by inadequate fiscal policy. Fiscal policy was actually restrictive in 2007 and therefore also anti-inflationary and, as such, cannot be a generator of inflation after the defolk. And these dilutions of simple people, those who raise prices, especially food prices, wonder at the wallet every day when they go to the store, very little interest. They want to know what the outcome of today's session will be. Will tomorrow's bread be cheaper, the pasta will be cheaper, the flour will be cheaper because of what we're doing here today? He won't! The conclusions you have proposed and the amendments you have proposed to the Committee's conclusions do not bring any such concrete solutions. The only concrete measure that you have proposed and are now proposing with the amendment is the immediate abolition of the tax on paid salaries, a measure for which the Government has proposed and this National Assembly has accepted to be abolished since 1.1.2009, and unfortunately also in this regard, the Bank of Slovenia, or Mr Rant, is on the Committee on Finance, so that this tax should be abolished when the consolidation on the spending side or associated with it is allowed in the dynamics envisaged by the government plan. It is said that this concrete measure is also not properly positioned, it is poorly positioned and better not to be adopted. Today, I must say, I miss your colleague Rob. For the last time, he said that, as former Prime Minister of the Government, he also saved inflation by adding falcon to the rent. Just that the situation was reversed at the time. Inflation was then twice, three times or more higher than economic growth. By the way, this information, which you have pointed out by the Social Democrats on the display, is not for the year before 2005, but for 2005. The data provided by you for the period prior to this Government is the data of this Government 2005, is data of 2 and a half percent inflation and 4.2% economic growth. But if we look at the numbers for your government period, let's say 2003 - inflation 5.6, economic growth 2.8. So inflation is much like today, and economic growth is more than twice lower, and the opposition back then did not require any extraordinary meeting. Unfortunately, today we also couldn't avoid restocking that the main culprit for inflation was not the government, but, look out, even its president, because Mercator sold to suppliers. The government did not own any shares in Mercator. And, ladies and gentlemen, in court, who Jankovic promised to buy a third of Mercator is convinced by other gentlemen, not by the President of the Government. However, the new owners obviously made a mistake by replacing the former director, Mr Jankovic. He recently stated that if he were still the director of Mercator, inflation today would not be so high. So we can ask again at this statement why this acceleration. Why is there a 4% increase in food prices in the EU, 11.2 why? The biggest traders say it's not true that they're not the main culprits, they're not the ones who don't help solve the problem through the margins." The director of our biggest dealer was even given a page in the newspaper newsletter of this trading chain, which officially still acts as one of the two central Slovenian journals in order to reject ten untruths about Slovenian food trade, as was the title of this article. I'd say more than ten truths with twenty lies. But when I read this, I remembered some jokes that more than just cause what traders can and can't do, say the point. After a long time, an ex-professor of economics and his student who wasn't the brightest, and this professor almost doesn't know him because he came in the big Mercedes and asked him, "Janez, what are you doing now?" And says this student who was very bad at math: "Yes, I'm a trader. I buy for one, I sell for two, and from that percentage of the margin, I live." One more thing is very interesting. Days ago, a jumbo poster appeared in front of these shopping centers and elsewhere in Slovenia, which says "Food will be even more expensive". At first I thought that the opposition had gone into propaganda action to prepare for this extraordinary meeting, and I realized that this did not hold that it was an action by a banking group. This is not good, as this debate is not good today. I think these are all things that psychologically influence the fact that these inflationary expectations in some of the heads and measures are generated. That's why I'm going to finish, I've said too much; as little as I can say, it would be better for the problem we're talking about today. I propose that we leave the Government to act and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government! I'll try to be as short as I can. At the outset, however, I very much agree with what Ambassador Fari Horvat said today is a matter of inflation of words. And if this debate has contributed to anything, it is positive that the Government, the finance ministry, the economic ministry and the Ministry of Labour, in particular, have been able to present to the Slovenian public certain figures which undoubtedly hold. Of course, the problem is that some of these numbers we understand, some of them you don't want to understand, what kind of individual, a fellow member from some technical-wagon sector, and they don't understand them and they just say things here. I understood that, because three former ministers spoke on behalf of the proponents, there would be a strong, reasoned, professionally oriented debate. Unfortunately, we have not experienced this. I listened to them carefully and tried to write down individual arguments. I wrote nothing to Mr. Skolcz, he said nothing but he read some statements from the past. Mr. Squeakle is nothing either. It was mainly his proposal to make an anti-inflation plan. I would understand that the party that now belongs to her and who is already predicting the mandate holder, that such a plan as the opposition party will be drawn up and come here with some concrete proposals, but it is true, I understand that if they come from a misinterpretation, that they will probably also follow any wrong decisions from this. He again laid down a series of his own claims, including the state debt he owed. Well, then here is his colleague, including former Minister Lahovnik, who fixed and said that a large part of this debt is an unsecured debt, is a debt that is not a commitment of the state, but that he always by his own declaration also does not believe everyone else. So we know it's some kind of politics in this direction. The only thing Ambassador Lahovnik added was that the guarantees had grown, but the guarantees had not been accepted by the Government, we accepted the guarantees in this National Assembly and we accepted most of them to solve the road problem. I cannot agree with the LDS proposal alone to slow road construction. We can't agree with that. We Styrians are paying for this highway cross, and Prekmurci, most of all, would like to have roads built for us to get to the highways. And I understand these gentlemen from this Ljubljana purgae to suggest that they stop building, that we finish or that we slow down and so on. But we have been waiting for more than 10 years for these problems to be resolved, to get some modern communication and opportunity for development down there, too, which is not as important as you, who are here in Ljubljana. Mr Lahovnik also proposed nothing; his conclusion was to propose a meeting. Although I don't know what to suggest, I propose a meeting. And another thought seemed very interesting to me, which came from the LDS, Mr Petek suggested that taxes should be reduced, spending reduced and more for the social state and more for the construction of highways from the budget. So if you succeed, then at least he'll be nominated for the Nobel Prize or he'll probably be a Nobel laureate for this kind of work, because what he's proposing, what he's proposing on behalf of the LDS, that's not possible. Now it's just two more sentences. Because essentially there was nothing on the part of the opposition to say what the real problems of this inflation were, but to me, which I do not know, let me say just one sentence. The price of corn today, at this point is 220 euros per tonne, you all, I don't know how much livestock you know, but all that comes out of it, corn is the basic raw material in this whole industry. And that's about 50 tolars a kilo. For a better understanding, that's 2.5 times what it was a year ago. And asking the Minister of Finance here when he's going to lower the price of these articles, that's total nonsense, that's a stock market article, that's the world price. We don't know. If this economic development is to go in India, China at the rate that it is happening at this time, then I fear that this price will continue to rise and that the price of energy will also increase and that the European Union will continue to deal with the problem of inflation in its entire field and, of course, the whole world will be dealing with the problem of inflation for a very long time. Well, I'll get it over with. This is another such debate triggered by the opposition. The Serbs would say to the subject, "A mountain has been shaken, a rat has been born." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u94	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This debate, which we are listening to today, is also about something else with inflation. First, I would like to pursue this cooperation between the government, the coalition and the opposition. The opposition has certainly rightly proposed an extraordinary meeting, as it has already used other instruments, which are allowed to work in the National Assembly. Why is this requirement so extreme? This is mainly due to the fact that we never get an answer in other ways. In this mandate, an extensive debate has not yet been held on the Minister's response to the question, not only of Mr Bayuk, but of all ministers. There's never been a chance. And then - what do we have left? There are only two remaining instruments: either a request for an extraordinary meeting or an interpolation. This two can be done by the opposition, and this time we have decided. Now, if I were to return to the very beginning when different positions were presented, of course I would touch the Minister's. In fact, all that has been said so clearly and yet talked about the essence of inflation was that inflation is something like gravity that works if we know anything about it or not. So, I'm sure we all feel it. That's what I'd lean on. Surely people are not interested in any reason, however they have been explained - a little later. They're interested in the consequences. They want to know if at this point the only solution is actually to stand in line in front of the lottery window to correct their position. And you know how long these species are, not just because of the high profits, just because people actually see solutions just in some magical, cosmic alignments or financial balances, and that's certainly bad. The second thing, of course, which proved to be and which Mr Bajuk so said, I think that with some of my romantic joy, which I very much appreciate, he said, was that the first word was the opposition's and only then came inflation. At first we said that inflation and then, of course, it appeared; it is said that we are guilty. This was repeated later in some way by Mr. Cernač. Of course not! Before the inflation started, say, about a year ago or maybe a little later and maybe the first reactions, if you remember them well, were like the addicts who denied their addiction. At first, it was a negative that it wasn't that it was just some fiction, something that seemed to someone. Well, once things were a little bit clearer, there was a little minimization, that's nothing, that's the fault, I don't know the Ljubljana commune, which irritated the waterworks or whatever. Then, of course, it was a mockery of this with dry bread, I am sure that all those pensioners who have taken the advice of Mr Visiak seriously and have now been starving for half a year have nothing more to do with it; I will not, of course, discuss what Mr Prime Minister has also said. Then it was a transfer, so it's all the fault of the previous government, everything that happened! It was kind of repeated today and all in a positive way, I was, I have to say, surprised. This was about the way it went: tycoonism, cartel bargaining, et cetera, et cetera"; it is said that all the handicrafts and robberies that are happening are now and huge profits are now, although they were before this government, so they did not escalate. All these things happen during this government. Now, of course, I'm not talking about guilt or what kind of planned inflation cultivation, but I'm talking about that at this time. And, of course, the expectation is that the one with the scissors in his hands, the canvas that has all the mechanisms of executive power and the still strong coalition in Parliament, will be able to do something, but not that, of course, he will continue to speak out on these once and for all. The most interesting thing is that the methods that we are listening to here, for example, in relation to the conclusions of today's session - the seven conclusions of the opposition were rejected with disgust, and the eight conclusions of the coalition were supported. Five of them talk about predicting the past, predicting what happened -- and that's the easiest thing in the world! And of course, this certainly speaks of some unreality. The second drawback, of course, reminds me of the times of very great inflation, and in the second half of the 1970s, the first half of the 1980s began, but this is a remarkable committee to tell you how to solve it. We're like members of civil society when we criticized that one-party authority and harassed and harassed it, which I keep listening to: "Well, you tell me!" All the apparatus that this authority had, and which it also has behind it, then requires an individual to bring in miraculous recipes at once. That's the real cynicism and the arrogance. This is a mockery of both Parliament and of people who are more likely to go beyond this poverty line every day. It's really a threat, I don't know, 11.6 percent or so, but look at how many people are on this line and what's going on. It happens that a large part of the population is forced to sell at the expense of their savings, which they invested in various bonds, shares and so on, because of this prevailing inflation and without any light in the East. And that makes the price even lower. Even in this substance, people eat, so that they can live, I'll say, from hand to mouth, teach children and so on. I'm not just talking about the poorest people who are already on the other side of despair, but those who are still trying to swim out. This is a problem with which it would be good to deal with and find solutions, but not only in conclusions that in fact identify something that has already happened and as such certainly hold, but they do not contribute to anything positive to what we have written down in today's session: solving the problem of high inflation and preparing anti-inflation measures. That's the address. Very little about this, but mostly excuses, denial, reduction, translation, rationalization and interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues who still insist on this debate. It was very interesting to listen to today's discussion of some of the colleagues who had discussed - I could say so - to discuss, but every time they joined the debate, they used different data or numbers on the same issues. Let me make one concrete point: one of the colleagues said that inflation was 181% in the period 1996-2006; the second, he said in the period 2002-2006, that this inflation was 181%; then he said that, for the period 1996-2000, wage growth was zero. Yes, my God! God save us from such an expert discussion, so I don't say anything else. Second. I could also comment on such a discussion with the river that it devotes its resources to the purpose. Thank God the transmission ended at 5:15, that the citizens wouldn't listen to us, that inflation of our words, that of our knowledge of the economy, and I absolutely didn't think I was an economist, but I tried to follow the debate. Second. I can't get rid of the feeling when I've listened to some of the representatives of the proposalers to deal with this item on the agenda - you know what I can't get rid of? I cannot help but feel that I am on the Committee on Finance or at the 2006 plenary session. These same people then predicted the "break" of this country, the "break" of finance, the "break" of the budget, how we will have to raise the VAT, the one with a lower rate of at least half percent, if not even one percent, that we will have to raise the higher tax rate by one percent and so on. These same people today are discussing what will happen if this happens, especially what happened. I would also like to say here that the debate of some colleagues follows what has already been said to the river to devote its resources. It is undeniable, however, that inflation is closely linked to rapid economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia and is also the result of external shocks. And I think that most colleagues, including those from the opposition, at least partly wanted to admit that this is a rise in food prices in global markets, as well as oil derivatives or oil. But there is a question of how to solve the problem of high inflation. And I don't think that, in our debate today, positional and opposition colleagues have contributed completely anything to the answer to this question, how to proceed to solving the problem of inflation, which, as you have identified and shown to us by data, is almost half as high as the average in the euro area. I am sure and I believe that some of your colleagues are also convinced that some measures have already been taken by the Government to eliminate this galloping inflation in the future. That the Government and this National Assembly have taken some measures to address the partly impact of this inflation. I would not talk about this, given that we have already heard, discussed and accepted this. I believe that we will also have to lower inflation in the future, in a way that will continue to maintain at least that kind of economic growth in our country. And in my opinion, it would be essential to give more attention to the under-competitive market structure of some parts of the Slovenian economy, where I am thinking mainly of trade. It would be detailed to continue with the intensive prevention of cartel negotiation and concentration of certain activities. I do not think there should be any need to renew, repeat what some of you are colleagues, but I also think that Mr Minister and some others, too, have debated this. In my opinion, the flexibility of budgetary expenditure should be increased and the so-called underdevelopment spending of the country should be reduced. I expect that the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget in 2008 will follow this. The Slovenian state is consumer-oriented and it is therefore necessary to seek a social consensus on increasing the flexibility of the budget and the cost-saving programme. Once again, I also expect this to be followed by a draft budget rebalancing proposal. Given that labour costs are increasing significantly faster in Slovenia than labour productivity, it will be necessary to seek consensus on wage growth compared to labour productivity. Finally, I would like to conclude this contribution, and I expect that further measures, both by the Government and this National Assembly, will be followed by a reduction in inflation, as well as an end to the current or inflation we have at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! It is more obvious that neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government has responded in a timely and appropriate manner to the initial but clear signs that the initial rise in inflation is not only something immediate, but will likely grow into a dimension that will seriously threaten sustainable national economic balance. Do you remember, colleagues and colleagues, what kind of pursuit did the Government Coalition have against the assessments and assumptions contained in the Bank of Slovenia's analysis report? Even in that report, some of you suggested that it was a matter of profaning your own country abroad. Because of this report, many of you have rejected Mr Gaspari's re-election as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. And what are we facing today? Today it is clear that these assumptions were accurate, even more so, some of today's parameters are even worse. The sustainability of national economic balance is increasingly threatened, and we are moving further away from it. I really don't understand why even today, when it is clear that inflation is still increasing, when we are already directly threatened by the inflation spiral, some, especially the Minister of Finance, are trying to convince yourself with such an individual - I wonder who, perhaps myself - that inflation, although too high, is not in any way a reflection of the inadequate individual policies of this government or a reflection of the fact that the Government has not taken the appropriate measures that should be taken at national level and that, despite the fact that we are still in the euro area, we are still in national competence. Above all, it is unwise and unreasonable that, for example, the two ministers today, with such arrogance, are referring to the opposition MPs, as opposed to the fact that inflation in Slovenia continues to rise and that high price increases, particularly food, are the poorest segments of the population in Slovenia. It is precisely the poorest to say that Slovenia is among the three countries where the risk of poverty is among the lowest in Europe. In three months, only the food was really irritable by about 20%. Otherwise, the poorest are no longer risking poverty; they are already in poverty. And every day, unfortunately, there are more and more in Slovenia. What did the Prime Minister of the Government, the current government, say before the 2004 elections? "Slovenia has entered the European Union and Slovenia will also have European salaries." Yes, many in Slovenia already have European wages, too many, and these are significantly more than the first ones, and they have Asian wages or, if you like, Argentine wages. And that's the problem. If this government fails to take appropriate action, inflation will continue to rise, energy and food in particular will continue to be irritated and the poor will be even poorer, and more will be. So, ladies and gentlemen, stop bragging about how well everything is under the current government, and every day better, what high economic growth we have, how you have already taken care of the poorest, and otherwise the level of risk of poverty is low and so on. Stop this self-confidence, get down on the ground, meet a lot of fellow citizens who have been there a long time ago, on the ground. But no, you're still telling us from the coalition today, you're saying that we're coming out of the wrong assumptions, and that the solutions we're proposing are also wrong. No, no, no. Admit it, they're wrong just because the opposition is proposing them, and that's why, of course, you won't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister? No, no, no. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! The seriousness of the candidates for this item on the agenda is also reflected in the fact that most of today's extraordinary meetings were held in the absence of three of the five groups of Members, so that not one representative of these three groups was present at the meeting. In fact, this shows that there are no arguments for serious discussion and there are no arguments and that there were no arguments for these debates, which were a huge exaggeration, in order to show a situation that does not correspond to the actual state, in order to create a public impression that has no real basis. It is certainly an appeal to this meeting to a legitimate act, but that would be justified, as has been said, but I don't think so. Today, we have been able to read by a recognised economist that today's session is a waste of time, because it was not the intention of the applicants or promoters of this meeting to actually improve the situation or to benefit the inflationary state in any way. Speaking of the state of inflation, I have said earlier that we are overreacting to the disability of talking about prices flying to the sky, and a lot of other similar claims have been suggested, some recognised economists have said that all of this talk is very stupid. Some of these people have also said that those who speak like that are either imbeciles or demagogues. I believe it's something for both of us. But when we talk about inflation being so big, it's really big, but it's too much to say with that word, and that's unacceptable. And if we're talking about prices flying into the sky, then we have to say that prices during all of the previous governments are flying into space, into space. For in all times of previous governments inflation was significantly higher than today. However, if we compare the inflation rate with the average inflation rate in the European Union, this ratio was still significant, significantly higher. For example, the 2004 inflation data, which is why, once this government took over its mandate, the ratio between the inflation rate in Slovenia and the inflation rate in the European Union was roughly the same as that in 2007. We won't be able to get the data for 2008 in about one year. But in all previous years, since 2003, when the average inflation was 5.6%, this ratio has been significantly higher. However, if we add economic growth to this data, then, of course, we are in a much larger difference. For in all previous periods, economic growth was much lower than inflation. So, at the time of this government, thank God, economic growth has always been above inflation, which certainly means something. Some today are among the only proposals that have somehow been put forward in all this flat-rate discussion, critical and groundless - in my opinion - proposals have been made when the tax on paid salaries should be abolished immediately, not only in the coming year, because it is being phased out in accordance with the law we have adopted. Then the next proposal was that the Government should have proposed a long time ago and this Parliament should adopt a law involving employees in profit and so on. But where were all those who made these proposals, when they had the opportunity to legalize them, they didn't remember that at the time, they remembered today when this government and this parliament and this ruling coalition had already done all this. So I really don't understand this kind of discussion. And when the spokeswoman spoke about the Government's need to take appropriate measures to achieve a better state and reduce these negative effects - so what should these appropriate measures be? The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has imposed a number of these measures, which are in progress, which are being implemented and, in particular, which relate to the measures taken by the Office for the Protection of Competition. Because here, in my opinion, is the essence of all the problem: the inflation that we are aware of, which we are not depreciating, but, of course, we need to look at it realistically and with real measures also to try to achieve the conditions that will actually affect the market. And that is what it is, not to talk about appropriate measures, but not to say one word about what these appropriate measures are. This is a simple demagogic speech that actually tries to impress the public, but does not have any effect with the reality. Therefore, I certainly believe that today's discussion is purely legitimate, but I think it is absolutely unnecessary and as such it will not achieve any of what the proponents in the public have said that it can achieve, for they themselves did not have such a purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I am sure that this assembly cannot discuss the causes of inflation in a qualified manner because, apart from the rare exceptions, we are simply not qualified in here. Therefore, first of all, 'economic professors', in ignorance, from the SDS and NSI, would point out that they should be moderate in innovations in economic theory or in repetitive government arguments. On the contrary, I was convinced that today we would try to reach at least some minimum consensus or some agreement, some belief, perhaps even a heavy word, about what the executive power could and should do - Parliament, of course, can do - on a proposal from the executive authority - what the executive authority would do to curb inflation. And I also have to repeat here the words that came from the Minister's desk, there is no hope that we will achieve this today and will not. That reminds me of a famous punk play. Of course, there is a clear interpretation among colleagues: inflation is caused by external reasons: rising oil prices or carbon derivatives and, of course, by rising prices of agricultural products. Of course, it is caused by external reasons, but the key is precisely how this global problem has been addressed by a specific government in global dimensions. But that's the thing! It is not that the government should have been aware that it has not lowered the world’s oil prices, but we do not appreciate it so much. But we want to know how she reacted to these changes that have taken place. And that's what we're talking about, and nobody wants to talk about it, but just by negotiating, keep saying that they're not guilty of inflation. It is necessary to know, in my opinion, that this should sound so peeled and more than once that it has reacted in particular too late. And here matters are counted in months, not in years, or perhaps even weeks, and that was bad. For in the economy time is irreversible: what you should have done in June is not the same if you did the same in August or September or even October. And the fact is, first of all, she had this distinctive form, that she was acting like she wasn't having a problem, and she hoped that if she denied him, he wouldn't actually perform. I had hoped to a certain extent, too, and I trusted it, but this problem came to an even greater extent because we didn't want to recognize it. The fact that there are always reasons outside itself is, of course, a way for the government to react and not only do I think about these external reasons that we could talk about how we might react, some of which I may say later, but this is the fact that others are guilty. To tell you the truth, colleagues and colleagues, it bothers me how you treat the store. I don't know any of the big dealers, I don't like to go to the store in general, but how you treat the store is a symptom to me that worries me. The trade is to blame for the margins and so on. I remember, I am just as old as the 1970s, 1972, 1973, 1974, when the end of market socialism, represented by people like Stane Kavčič, then Miha Tripoli, I think it was in Croatia, Latina Perovic in Serbia - if anyone else knows these names. At the end of this market socialism, the main attack of the orthodox forces was on the trade. Trade does not create value, trade exploits producers, workers, then self-governance, and exploits consumers as self-governance. All along, trade has always been the same language as today. Go and set up the national warehouses, and people will choose for themselves and so on. And imagine a little while when you have the full mouth of criticism of the previous regime that you actually want or refuse, this same language of the same regime that you so strongly criticize, all the time, you could say, is unwittingly returning to your lips in words and also in actions. The fact and my firm belief is that the Government should react with a more rigorous restriction on public spending, even though this would mean a certain cooling down of economic growth. This is not a position that can be taken as the only saving one, it is a position that is present in the current economic debates. You agree with this view yourself, because I think inflation is worse than a beneficial growth that generates too much inflation. And the fact that it's some kind of weighing, if you want, between good and bad, that's what the government's always avoiding. And why won't he do that? Yes, because, comrades from the coalition, you know they're good and bad times. And when the times are right, it is good to be a government: all things run, even though you do nothing, all things are for your benefit. And when bad times, I know that, too, it's very bad, whatever you do, it goes to your detriment. And those, I'm not going to say very bad times, but worse times have come in this area, that something has to be done against the flow, that something has to be done that is not popular. That it is necessary, for example, to limit certain public expenditure and to "cassify" criticism, even though people who would like to have a highway as quickly as possible, and I think it would be good if we had it; even if critics of scientists who might not get as much as they did before, or anyone else. This government is not ready to do this. And it's the Minister for the Economy who's bragging and saying, "You want to cut investments, you tell us which ones to cut!" We're not ministers, we're not government, he's government, he has to say and take responsibility! And this government cannot assume this responsibility, even at the symbolic level and even with certain measures. And if the government isn't able to do that, they won't do it, they won't do it, they won't do it, they won't do it, they won't do it, they won't do it, they won't do it, they won't do it. I think it's the one, in English, "trade-off" that needs to be taken for lease and you need to do something. And the government didn't do it. I would even say this, I imagine, in truth, what would have happened if he had been - and I hope he wouldn't blame me - Dr Dusan Maramor is still a finance minister. I am aware of what this would mean and how unpopular measures would be, how to brush the teeth of those who would be ministers, and how the government would be hit by public opinion because everyone would be dissatisfied with it. However, inflation would be lower. What I was going to say is that I would like my colleagues, the "economic professors", to point out, under the terms of reference, that, for God's sake, they should not mix the relationship between inflation and growth rates in 1994, 1995, 1996 and 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008. This is a completely different state of the economy, a completely different relationship in which the economies were located. And if those policies were not as successful at the time as they were, even the policies you are boasting about today, it would not be at all, nor would the euro. The economy was then in restructuring, it was in change, it had to keep jobs, it had to keep the drive in the economy so to speak - things were completely different. And a tax on paid wages. When it was introduced, it was justified in my opinion, but in other circumstances, what was the advantage could have become a bar of development. And that's what happened, and that's why we suggested it. I think that if this National Assembly does not say that unpopular measures must also be taken, it is necessary that if we consider them to be supported by as many people as possible in this House - independently, there is a position, there is opposition - we can talk about this. But the government isn't capable of doing that. This fact is not capable of doing, she believes that it is only good times for her; it is not only good times, especially for others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Pece has the floor on behalf of the proposer. I'm warning you, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! Today, I think, at least after the work of the proposalr, that is, after the work that we come from a number of unrelated Members of the Lip Group, the debate revolved around only one point, which can be divided into three dimensions, as part of a quality debate. Firstly, around the issue of public spending today and tomorrow, secondly, around the impact of fiscal policy and thirdly, around the structure of economic growth. Last year, in 2007, the government told us that we have an extraordinary, even envious economic growth. In the framework of the parliamentary group, we have tried several times to establish in the course of the debates in the National Assembly the issue of the structure of economic growth. The fact is that the structure of economic growth, on short notice, allows for a very nice and jealous number or percentage, but we regret the long-term structure that has been accelerated, in my firm opinion, by means of false measures and selective government policy in the form that long-term such economic growth cannot survive or experience at the end of this year, that is, 2008. The fact is that the structure of economic growth is exclusively linked to exporters: and also if we look at the entire sector of exporters, it is linked only to large exporters. On the other hand, as the remainder of economic growth, it was linked to so-called construction production. Around it was much too much in the past days or yesterday and the day before, so I will not go into that other part. However, I would like to highlight the dimension that speaks of the structure of economic growth in the area of exports. Of course, during that period we have the value of the euro at times when exporters are in a better position and thus generate an overall macroeconomic picture at some declaration level, but the fact is that at the substantive level this is not a real reflection of the reality. And we are convinced that this indicator of economic growth has come to the deficit area, that is, between the reality and the display of numbers right from that address. Because, on the other hand, economic growth would, of course, be reflected in the opposite effect of inflation, on the one hand, on the other hand, monetary valuation. However, I would like to point out what I personally feel in the fight against inflation is one of the tools that the legislative branches of government, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should use, not least with the participation of the National Assembly, as well. This is a reduction in public spending. In the course of his performance, the Minister said that he was not a hero who could propose measures that had also been identified before me at some principle level by his colleague Gantar. Well, hold on. These are unpopular measures, which will have to come from either the current government or the future government, but in our interest, it is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia that these measures come as soon as possible - insofar as we pursue the long-term or at least medium-term interests of our country. As far as public spending is concerned, in the introduction, i.e. in the presentation of the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, I highlighted or showed you some of the answers that I received as a Member from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So, expenditure on so-called business trips - I believe that a number of business trips are also necessary within the government. I believe it coincides with the urgent extent of Slovenia's work at home and abroad. But on the basis of the above list, which includes an extremely large number of daily and destination trips, it is evident that, unfortunately, everything happens too often or takes place so-called, and I will say, "tourism-government" or government tourism. The fact is that in this part, the Government, at least at that basic level, could also show concern for the so-called public administration in one part or state expenditure. Further, I think it makes sense that - at least Mr Šircelj, who is with us today - we should also consider controlling and controlling so-called budgetary expenditure at a direct level, i.e. in the form of payments through the country's direct investment. I am therefore talking about shares in which the State has a certain share, at least the share of 10%, 50 or 100%, and where this invisible deadline of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is completely lost in determining: the first time, the prize; the second time, participation in profits and the third time, through meetings. As far as I have been able to show in the previous 20 minutes in the context of the presentation of the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have been able to find out - at least those who have listened, or not finally all those who have the opportunity to look into Lotus Notes, that is to say in the Government's own reply - that there are extremely large amounts that go into a few hundred thousand euros for each share company, in which the administration or members of the Supervisory Board receive this as a reward for defined and quality work, on the one hand for the automation resulting from the performance or the performance of these functions. And given that the government's response was in a bit more than 100 pages and that one company on average takes over or that the number of enterprises on one side is at least eight, everyone can calculate how many such investments the country has and what the costs of this title come from. I would not like to continue to talk about all the things that Members have pointed out during the questions that have been sent, but in the past, I will say not only in 2007 but not least in 2006 about the consumption of the country - the consumption of the country in the form of direct implementation or budget outflows - but in the form of new investments in administrative operations, which I believe is one of the simplest measures to reduce so-called public spending. I would also like to talk about the third part, which I think has been exposed several times, unfortunately, mostly by the proposer and unfortunately never by the Members representing the Government within the legislative branch of power. This is another of the remaining macro-economic policy measures in the context of the loss of its potential for monetary sovereignty. In order to enter the euro area, we must be aware that action in the euro area requires a more effective fiscal policy. And this is precisely the area of fiscal policy in the context of the unconnected Members' Group of Members, Lipa, which we consider to be insufficient, in regulation, at least on one side of the aggregate offer, on the other hand, aggregate demand in pursuit of achievement, a balanced price. So the fact is that since the introduction or takeover of the euro, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, for the first time, not only be concerned about the implementation and enforcement of convergence or Maastricht criteria, i.e. in the field of interest rates, inflation, public debt, domestic debt, but, of course, implement the entire fiscal policy much more actively and adjusted time and momentarily today. Unfortunately, we have not done this in our country in the past two years. The basic convergence criteria were even ignored and their maintenance was forgotten the day we took over the euro. According to my assessment, the first dimension, the maintenance of these criteria, and the entry of Slovenia into all five criteria within the definition that they have placed us as a condition for entry into the European Union, should be a long-term means of maintaining monetary stability, as far as our country has had since its introduction. Furthermore, I think it is most important - and I will quote the opinion of one of the macro-economicists: "After entering the euro area, the concern for price stability is fully transferred to fiscal policy." And this sentence, I think, has not been more important in the course of today's 10th and a few hours' debate, I will repeat once again: "After entering the euro area, the concern for price stability has been fully transferred to fiscal policy." So, through fiscal policy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only the Ministry of Finance, should, in my opinion, do much more than it is. Some of the proposals, you heard them in the opening presentation, at least in the part where I represented the position of the Group of Members. Finally, I would point out that fear, which, unless the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes the necessary measures, will show itself in the form of automaticism. For the first time, since the State has made a guarantee for Darsa's obligations, the new debt, which was incurred in 2007, will have to be repaid, reimbursed or granted to Darsa a slightly higher toll or additional debt, which is of course bad, but it will be automaticism. On the other hand, just two more sentences, Mr President, had the same negative impact on Dars' additional debt. And the third option is to cash out guarantees, which, of course, would have inappropriately more harmful consequences for the country. If the Government does not seriously address this subject, you will be forced to take these measures. However, these measures will only be weak in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We in Novi Slovenija do not have any problems with the reference to this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, nor do we run away from the in-depth and professional discussion on inflation, which is certainly a problem, not only of Slovenia, but of the whole EU area. But I'm as disappointed as some of my forerunners on one side or the other. I am disappointed because the sequel or the intonation of today’s five editorials was bad for this meeting. At the outset, the National Assembly was disappointed because we did not appoint two eminent gentlemen as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. But if we are talking about this, then we need to give more and more information or ask ourselves questions related to the Bank of Slovenia. I am, for example, asking the question of the insufficient supervisory function that the Bank of Slovenia has and must have in some, say, LHB Frankfurt, suspicious transactions. And if we are already talking about the Bank of Slovenia, why should we not quote the current Governor, Mr Mark Kranjec, who said in the distinguished Slovenian daily on 26 January this year, "If there is not sufficient competitiveness of domestic demand, where there are margins of business, if not already high, at least very comfortable, the bidders are much less aware of whether or not they will lose their customers because of the price rise," said Kranjec, who fully agrees with the Government that the left share of domestic inflation is wrong for traders. "The faults are merchants and also bakers," said the Governor of Banka Slovenije. I also draw attention to the personal responsibility of those who discuss and write in this direction to spread inflation. This is actually about personal responsibility and creating, for example, poor negotiating climate, where employers and employees should agree on salaries. If this air conditioner isn't good, it'll be a strike. If the salary requirements are significantly higher than the increase in Slovenian productivity, we have lost the game. I've prepared a long discussion, but I'm gonna have to leave a few more minutes for my colleagues. I find that we do not have enough competition in Slovenia at this time. This is insufficient competition, which we see mainly in the retail trade sector. And some numbers. In 2000, about 760 companies were involved in food trade. In 2006, they dropped to around 410. Around 350, someone ate it. We know who -- maybe a pet dragon. The second indicator of the deterioration of competition is linked to the market composition, as we have heard more than once today, once again. In 2000, about half of the market was controlled by the four largest food traders and in 2006 almost 90% of the market. Such market composition does not contribute to greater competition. Therefore, today's extraordinary meeting of the National Council on Inflation may need to focus on how to improve the competitive situation in agriculture, the food and processing industry market and, above all, retail trade. Ladies and gentlemen! I have one simple proposal: from this city, from the National Assembly, I call on the four already mentioned biggest traders or, more precisely, the presidents of their administrations. Madam President, put the margins on the light! If you are able to write "action", "lowest prices", "not going", give even a piece of paper and write -- not for all the articles, just for those maybe ten of the most common foods -- write down how many percent you have of the margins to know when I buy, say, ten buns for my family, how many extra buns I have to buy or pay for the trader in this case. That would be a real, fair game. If we, who are consumers, open our wallets and give our credit cards at the store, why don't the merchants open their cards or their wallets. I would immediately declare such a president of the administration, the store that will do so first, as the Slovenian of the years. I hope someone follows me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, inflation is as obvious as football because everyone thinks they know the most about it. I am not an economic expert myself, so that I can discuss the theory and the reasons, but of course I know that as mayor of one Slovenian municipality people still feel it and that we still feel it in the congregations. Let me read one of the e-mails that came to you earlier this afternoon, when I was sitting here in the National Assembly, the clergyman writes, "The Mayor! By Elektra Gorenjska we received an annex of images on the sale and purchase of electricity with the following proposals for price increases: VT, high tariff, 30% increase, MT, low tariff, 44% increase and uniform tariff 30% increase." They ask us to look at the annex and send the signed copy to their address and so on. As for the municipal budgets, we did this year when we planned, and you encouraged us to prepare two-year budgets, of course we got 2.08% more money in the budget. To tell you some other information, the price in kindergartens is, of course, jumping, because wages have risen since January 2007 to July 2007 by 3.4% and because wages are the main cost in kindergartens, which is 80% of the expenditure, then you will probably believe that this is a serious problem. Heating, gas, kindergartens, schools, museums, theatres, administrative buildings, gyms - promotion 10 to 12%. Not to talk about the construction price index! And in all public institutions, children should also have lunches, lunches, and more. Food prices have been raised by 15% to 30% in kindergartens, but due to public procurement and year-round contracts we do not feel this moment, but we will definitely feel this in the future. And, of course, I also ask the Ministry to consider how to provide more resources to the municipalities so that we can manage this treasure more easily and normally. I think that this is one of those important factors in this society, because it is not long ago, when we heard representatives of the government that are well circulated across Slovenia, that the situation in Slovenian municipalities has never been as good as it is now, but if we were to replace the good word with a realistic review of finance, hidden debt and more, then the information on both inflation and the state of municipal budgets will be much more sad and realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I expected today from the speakers of this debate indeed some concrete constructive proposals that would be taken into account, both by the Government and not least by the National Assembly, if any law were to be amended. However, no single objective or really constructive proposal could be detected. The only two or three discussers were so many, I can say misleading that they suggested that public spending or road construction should be reduced and some investment projects should be reduced. Here I would believe if everyone who said it was so brave to determine which section of the highway, whether it is in Prekmurje or it is in Dolenjska, had to be deleted in order to reduce inflation. This certainly is not a solution, and even as such, I would not like to support it in any way. No one has said today from the opposition discussers what the government has not done. In fact, we have not today managed to face some activity that the Government could have done, but it is not. In the past, and even now, many experts have been able to read, state with complete sovereignty that the Government has done everything in its power, and I believe so too. But if we ask ourselves, where are the reasons for greater inflation than on average the European Union? There is also a higher price of fuel, and there is more expensive imported food. We do, too. And that is a key reason for us, too, that inflation is higher than it would be, but with us - in this I am firmly convinced - the situation is that traders have taken advantage of this fact and have actually put this price increase into their prices, by adding very much to their own prices. There is no irritation or irritation in us as many articles as are valid or run by competition. Above all, those vitally needed items are being auctioned, where consumers have no choice, we have to buy them every day and, unfortunately, traders are also exploiting them. Before that, one of my colleagues wondered what the margin of the merchants was before me. I believe no one will say this, but maybe we can find an answer for ourselves. One flyer or catalogue of one of these large merchants offers bread with a 45% discount, another bread with a 47% discount. I'm sure they don't sell this bread with loss. Maybe they canceled their margins here, but he's not the only big dealer. We have a number of leaflets in our mailboxes, every day of all merchants, where they are actually doing a lot of propaganda or action on the bread. And since the bread was often exposed to debate as much as it irritated - already it was expensive and we have also now witnessed great irritations - there can only be one information that can convince us all that traders have very large profits here. If we take the price of flour that we buy in the store and, of course, with all that margin, money and supplements, and the other ingredients needed for bread, we find that for one kilogram of bread we pay 2 or 3 euros or even more in the store, only 0.6 euros should be deducted. Including electricity. This means that in the bread trade, it is 3 times, 4 times, 5 times or even more expensive than the raw material itself. And if we look at the wages, they didn't beat themselves up. Even in last year’s year, electricity was not irritated, and many other things were not irritated — but on what basis did the bread become irritated? The very price of grain does not bring such an increase. I don't want to be too long, I'm just going to point out this: Who can lower the inflation that we are witnessing? I firmly believe that, above all, greater competitiveness and here, the Office of Competition Protection, as well as other government measures, will contribute to increasing competitiveness in the field of food trade as well, and as another key player in this - we are certainly consumers. Unfortunately, in Slovenia this is also noted by the Office for Consumer Protection that we Slovenians or our consumers are still not ready to follow the identification or search for favourable prices. Once we reject goods that are unduly high, traders will also start to wonder whether it is really a policy to go with high prices instead of adapting them. As consumers become more elastic, as is the case in the more developed countries of the European Union, this area will also be much more regulated. But that's not going overnight, but I'm sure it'll come to our attention soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens who watch this in the morning, given that this will be today on the 2rd, 3rd at night. I quote: "We believe fiscal policy can contribute a significant share to calm aggregate demand. State expenditure represents a significant share of final consumption and additional demand is increased due to the investment activities of the State, its companies and the undertakings to which the State guarantees, such as Dars, and to disregard municipalities with hidden guarantees. In a recent article, the Head of Mission and Economists for Slovenia at the International Monetary Fund also pointed out the State's important contribution to the recent development of aggregate demand. This clearly points to possible areas of fiscal policy action. During the medium term, the restrictive attitude of fiscal policy is generally reflected in the reduction of the so-called structural deficit on the spending side. In a situation of economic growth beyond potential growth, a structural surplus of the budget is expected. The current estimates of anti-cyclical fiscal policy are not encouraging. In its December 2007 bulletin, the ECB states that the structural deficit has not yet been reduced despite Slovenia's high economic growth. - You'll tell me if that's true. - In 2008, the ECB estimated that the structural deficit would even worsen, similar to the European Commission's estimates of yesterday. All of this suggests that the stabilisation of the expenditure of the State needs to be re-examined." That's a quote. It's a quote from the Bank of Slovenia. It's not the opposition. These are not some Members whose introductory discussions have obviously disturbed you. That's the facts. Therefore, we propose to the opposition Members that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia invite the Government, together with the social partners, to prepare a thorough anti-inflation plan for the Bank of Slovenia. This includes not only public financial measures, but also a wide range of other measures. Today, there has been a lot of talk about an economist who wrote an article in Finance, so Members should go for a beer today. If this economist, as Director of Umarja, were to give better advice to the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, there would be no such meeting today. Today this session would not be, and everyone might be celebrating another joint event. That's a fact. The same economist said at the so-called first price rises of beer: "We will no longer have beer at the Horse's tail, but we will have beer at home by the fireplace." Please! Who can afford a beer at home by the fireplace? The few 10,000 richest that this economist as one of Damian's main gurus has provided them with the only serious tax reform measure of this government - an increase in net wages due to 20% and 9% of the 50 points, almost 20% reduction in the highest income rate. Yes, I agree that Members would rather have a beer today if they did not have a serious problem that some of them can no longer afford beer in Slovenia! Why can't they afford more beer? Because the government, in narration, "sold Mercator to suppliers" and Mercator's chief of suppliers no longer squeezes because the supplier owns Mercator. And it's not just about the Laško Brewery and it's not just about the Union beer, it's not just about Istrabenz and the Road and so on, it's about the structure of the economy, which the Competition Protection Office has been claiming for two years that there's no concentration until they've been fighting around, I don't know what else, the Diary or Dinner or Del or Maga, or I don't know what the story of which they were fighting over from the August 12th meeting. And that is why, of course, we have a situation where some images of Banka Slovenije stab you. When it comes to you that the Members read Mr Almunio differently than you read it. We read it as follows: The budgetary situation is good, as it is assessed and so on. However, Slovenia should take advantage of the period of growth it enjoys and strive for greater primary surpluses in view of the strong inflationary pressures and the projected increase in expenditure related to population ageing. Slovenia had one problem last year following last year's evaluation of the stability programme. It now has four: inflation, income policy, competition policy and long-term ageing. She'll have another one by the end of this year. And that's why the warnings are serious. And if you are quoting today as your main defense that the government obviously does not like to "run" the anti-inflation theater, and the opposition simply cannot resist the temptation to speak nonsense if this is your main quote, your main defence, then in Slovenia we do have a technical government. This is not even the President-in-Office of the European Union, because Janša is not invited to the most important meetings on financial stability, do not invite him, beware, ask Prodi, who no longer had a government and Barroso invites himself. Do not invite the EU Presidency to a meeting on one fundamental issue this year. And when we talk at home about what you're going to do, we have a coalition member who says, "Why are you even calling a so-called inflation debate?" Because that's a serious problem. Inflation was first detected after three years in January. January is, as you know, a sale. And 2005, 2006, 2007 we had January deflation. We have inflation this year despite sales. Because the gap between prices, especially the non-changing sector at home and abroad, is increasing. Because of the simplification, suppliers know that if the Government has more than a fifth of the material costs, the capacity in Slovenia is not more than a fifth, but the prices are rising. That is why Mr. Mayor received a letter from Elektro Gorenjska that prices will increase by 30%. I've been monitoring unit costs in my own household for several years. And in two and a half years, this thing increased by about 40%. That's right. And if the increase in food prices is 13%, October to October, it is not perceived as an economic political problem that has led to peaceful demonstrations on November 17th, and the government is still holding its head in the sand, then that means we have a technical government. That is why the opposition proposed this meeting. Today, Prime Minister Janez Janša should be here to explain how his measures on Tuesday will affect, as he said, the greater efficiency of the public sector. I hope he didn't want to say that it would also affect lower inflation. But the government's actions are not what the government is implementing this week. Mr Vizjak has left, Mr Jeršič is working here, with all due respect, but, you know, for two years, the Minister of Economy and Janez Janša have claimed to the European Union that there is no concentration. They are now chairing these institutions. Of course, we have a very strange policy. That we stabbed the government, there's two evidence. Those few slides, which are very innocent, are nothing more than slides that are in the programme or in the price stability report, which has been published since October 1st, and today you have been disturbed by all of them. Minister Bajuka, even though TV Slovenia wanted to face the inclusion in the Dnevnik, with my littleness and him, he did not hope to join the Dnevnik. Please! He didn't want to tell and confront two opinions on what to do. You are so afraid to discuss measures! Today, of course, we will conclude on some of your so-called conclusions and our amendments. Yesterday, you rejected the amendment or decision we proposed that the National Assembly invite the Government to ensure, with immediate action in the field of social affairs, adequate social security and to address the level of risk of social exclusion. You rejected this decision. You are therefore in favour of an increased level of risk of social exclusion; you are in favour of lower social security. This vote will be quoted many more times this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greetings! After the elections, people expected Slovenia to be a promised land where honey and milk would flow and Slovenia would be a beacon of Europe. Unfortunately, I must say that Slovenia is indeed developing, but mostly on the backs and shoulders of employees, as this thing could be said briefly. It is that this government has arranged that we have European money, that we have European labour standards, that we have European working hours and that we have Balkan wages. This is illustrated by various comparisons. If you look at the governments under the rule of the LDS and have now been extremely successful, since in 1995 the gross social product was 68% and in 2004 when you took over the Government was 85%, in 2005 87% and in 2006 88%. As far as productivity and gross social product are concerned, the line is always on the rise, but it is slowly starting to collapse. But there's a whole other thing about wages. On average, Slovenia has a gross salary of 13.915, while France has 30,000, while Ireland has 40,000, when Belgium has 35,000, when our neighbour Austria has 36,000. Meaning, we have come from an average of 13% less than the average, up to 100% less than 13%, and we have 43% less on average on wages, which means that our country is less on how much labour is paid, a paradise for foreign capital to bring us a certain production, because we have cheap labour. And this thing, you know, is that this thing hurts people the most. Remember, we've achieved some development that's gone up, as far as the growth of gross social product, purchasing power, we're always going up. But this lack of hearing to raise wages will lead us to have social unrest, we will have completely unmotivated people who will work, said workers everywhere in the unions, this is what the researchers told us, and the government will have to pay more than 34,000 people with the apparatus at its disposal, find ways and that we will also have comparable European wages for the citizens of Slovenia. Thus, we are lagging behind, and on the shoulders of those who work, we show how successful we are with gross social product or how our things grow. But you have already been such honest men from the government that you yourself have written in your assessment that with productivity growth also stands the growth of wages, which is the result of these successes. But it won't take long. This thing can be broken, and due to the non-motivation and departure of the best people elsewhere, where they will have double or triple wages, Slovenia can pay an ugly price. If we have a 500-euro autocrat in Austria and a 1,400-euro nurse in Austria and a 1,700-euro nurse in Austria, it means that we are like a colony with our neighbours and we will have to put all things on the table and in the government to find solutions to change this situation. I think that this Government, as I have already said, has brought European prices, European money and social and developmentable wages, and that the party and the coalition will win in future elections, which will also promise that the people and people of Slovenia will also have European salaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I have imagined this debate that inflation is a problem and that we are interested in the consequences and impact on the lives of citizens. And once upon a debate here in the National Assembly, when we discussed the State Council and their revenues, we compared them with some groups of citizens of Slovenia and we also came to the workers of Mura because one of my colleagues told me that they have bad salaries in Mura because of the LDS government. Today, wages in Mura are much worse. Much worse than when there was another government that was otherwise called. And everyone, not all, many here in this hall today used Pomurje as some part of Slovenia, which makes huge debts due to highways, that we need the landscape because of Pomurje, because then everything will be different and it will be a shame that you did not say that because of Pomurje there is also inflation, where 30% of the food came from. We had well - known and large visits, which promised much but did not come true. These are two government visits. In particular, we had three ministers who had recently come to rescue the largest textile complex with 4,000 employees, where much was expected. Finally, the decision was this: the situation is not bad, we support the Director's efforts, but the state will not help anything. Unlike the previous government, which has helped a lot. A lot of people are interested in where he went, and I think he knows where he went, and it helped a lot, and that's when Mura got away. Today is a situation where we can get a large number of people on the road, poorly paid people who are there. And none of those big promises ever happened. I have here a document of the Government that talks about development projects in Slovenia for many years to come. Not one, except those who have already written some business zones into the map of Pomurje, not one new project. Which is the same story with great promises to a region that you all use for some political floscules to be due to some region [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Credits and landscapes, and I don't know what. There will also come a time of reckoning when it will be necessary to answer why none of this has happened and let us hope that this time will come. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all who are still present in the hall! Although I did not expect much from today's debate and my expectations are not fully met, I have not heard any constructive proposals for reducing inflation. Above all, this link to inflation, which will significantly lower the standard of living for some segments of the population, I do not think it is true, because statistics speak differently and, above all, the United Nations Millennium Development Goals set the dollar per day or 20 euros per month for poverty. Of course, Slovenia is far above this average. Moreover, statistics show that in Slovenia 98% of households have a TV receiver, 84% have at least one mobile phone, 80% have an automobile, 87% have an adequate diet with a sufficient amount of meat or an equivalent in vegetarian form, 66% of households can afford at least one week of vacation, and 87% of Slovenes are satisfied with life in Slovenia, according to Eurobarometer data. But statistics can cover things up. Of course, there are people among us who do not receive all these benefits. However, I would like to remind my colleagues of some debate, not so far back, when we talked about the provinces that would bring more equitable development to Slovenia. This law has not been adopted. Therefore, some parts of Slovenia will not develop so quickly or approach these better statistics. Observations from everyday life also show that Slovenia is a well-standing country with a sufficiently high standard of living. Slovenia is attractive for the employment of workers from other countries of the European Community. This is how we face pressures after hiring workers mainly from Slovakia, Romania and, of course, from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. That they are not such severe embarrassment also at the final stage shows an extremely long study, an average long study of our students. In my day, we were forced to finish our studies as soon as possible and become net payers from the net consumers of the family budget. I would also like to draw attention to the problem of globalisation, which, because of some reckless action, can hit us hard in our standard. I would like to point out, for example, that Nokia closed production in Germany and is 2,300 people on the road because they are moving production to Romania. Motorola shuts down some mobile telephony programs, which means shutting down factories and workers on the road again. I see a solution for a better standard of living, especially in greater value added in our companies, which requires requalification, restructuring of industry, if it is not yet restructured, and in particular education. This is where the problem arises, for all additional education can be associated with high costs. Today, we have heard of various comparisons with Europe. I would like to draw attention to another issue that we are not yet achieving, which is European efficiency, measured on a number of criteria. As we approach it, we can rightly expect our standard to be higher. We will be able to fight inflation with the right measures. In addition, we have heard that four fifths of inflation has come from elsewhere, or the impact of globalisation. World markets also show that inflation may be slowing down. 120% more expensive maize will no longer be attractive to the production of biodiesel, so the price of maize has already reached a certain level and is not expected to irritate. The needs for such expensive oil are likely to decrease slightly and the price will therefore be balanced. However, the fight against inflation will also be much easier to fight within the European family, as inflation has affected most of the European Union's countries and we will be able to cope and overcome the issue more easily with the joint outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all those who are still discussing and following this session! I have a feeling that in every way the opposition intended to display this government today as the creator of inflation and poverty. And I will also return to the author who was quoted several times today, who told Finance that the government would act wisely if it calmed down the inflationary psychosis. I'd say the psychosis of poverty and hunger that is so popular today. One of the introductory debaters said that the standard of people has been declining since independence. I hope he knows what he's saying. There is no need to be an expert, but we cannot compare 1991 to 2008 in Slovenia in such a flat-rate way and so humiliating. I think the standard is now significantly higher than it was in 1991. There is also talk of poverty, about 25% of poverty. Today, the minister said that according to the latest data of the Statistical Office of Slovenia, the level of poverty risk in Slovenia is 11.7%. Only three more countries have a more favourable or lower poverty among Europeans. In fact, we have a favourable situation in Slovenia as far as this is concerned. Also about employment. According to the data provided by the Minister, we have four times as many employment needs as we have unemployed people. So there is no point in talking about poverty and unemployment. And I agree with this author, whom I quoted in the introduction, that it might be better for Members to go to beer today than to cheat nonsense. We could go together, not just the opposition, as he quoted. But it is true that, you want to admit or do not want to admit, inflation is caused by the high price of food on the European, global and Slovenian markets. And before that, we can't close our eyes. And what is the problem of the Slovenian government, or what must we pay attention to? The fact that food in Slovenia is three times more irritable than it is in the European market. This is a problem in Slovenia, compared to the European area. If it's there for a few percent, it's like 11, 12 percent. And the food policy expert says that these trade margins, which increase mainly this inspiration, Mrs Pečanova, could be given a word whenever you want it. [[...]] You disturb me in saying that we could reduce this with greater competition and that competition will have to become a value for us, a social value that margins should be more transparent and more consumer awareness. [[...]] Another expert, the Governor of the Bank says that inflation is also blamed for the immeasurable sector, energy, municipal services, kindergartens and so on, the inefficiency of these institutions, although they share high profits, they build luxury buildings and 13 salaries. I'm also wondering if electricity is really needed. I support the Government and its actions, which have been presented today, and I think they are going in the right direction, including the Office for Competition Protection as well as NGOs, the supervision of price regulation by the Government and, above all, consumer information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Because there's very little time, I'm only going to try one thought. Look, this is a serious matter, such as inflation, a political gender, which is characterised by inflation by new parties, new parliamentary groups, it is not serious, it is totally hopeless and without serious proposals. Who talks like that? This is a political option that has recently made it clear that it will care for the future only for centralisation and only for its staff, for its financial oligarchy, which has enriched through transition. How did they show it? They received Gaspari, who is an expert in centralised finance, so the provinces and other parts of Slovenia will have nothing left. Nevertheless, the leader of this option, who himself says he does not control the left, in this interview, that they will do everything on his side not to win the elections, calls on the public tribunal in Slovenia under the title Slovenia to lead better. It seems hypocritical to me, because it's more for the tycoons, for the financial oligarchy, maybe, these are your messages. And this title of this tribune might be better than a Roman greeting "Ave, Caesar, Moriture of the Salutant" or by our "Leader, we welcome you." For you have made it clear that you will do all things to make Prekmurje, Styria, the White Land, the Succeeder die. And such an option, today by inflation of words you try to mislead the Slovenian public. I'm absolutely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Štebe has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll take these two minutes. In general, I would not repeat, but I would like to point out that inflation is really the problem. That's the problem. The fundamental problem that generates inflation in Slovenia, however, is the lack of competition. The lack of competition, despite a 15-year transition period, is wrong, isn't it, Mr. Squeakl? Because you also agree that there is no competition in Slovenia. The fact that we still have in Slovenia from the socialist autocratic times monopolies, oligopolies, cartel connections, if not anymore, the managers agree nicely with each other in a way that even foreign trading companies exploit such non-liberal market relations and follow these high margins at the price of bread. Why is there no competition in Slovenia? Because it is necessary, look at at at least three directors, 10 directors, and I think that behind them is the least crowd, hundreds of such people, who are acting in a way that exploits their majority market position. And this is leading Europe, as we have heard now in addressing the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, to an uneven developmental, strategic, competitive situation with societies, such as the US or Japan, where the matter is completely different. And this lack of competition, which is even growing in a way that companies are not making any progress because they have to spend all their profits on paying off the loans of managers who bought these companies without their own money. All together leads us to a completely uncompetitive economy and to falling behind even those segments of ours [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] an economy that could progress. And this is the generator and the main source of inflation that's hidden under the ice mountain. What we're talking about today is, of course, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u126	Mr. Stebe, in December 2004, your coalition took over. I agree with you, but what do you do for three years and three months?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u128	Good evening! I must first say that I am not a financial expert, but at least some expert on the elimination of inflation, so that, unfortunately, you will not get any advice on how to eliminate this inflation. But I can tell you what the government's been doing these three years. The government has done a lot in these three years. That's what I'm answering to Mr. Squill now. At first, she began to coordinate pensions slightly differently, that we are not today at the point where our pensioners would be very poor. If we continued this policy of yours, I am sure that every year the pensioners would be on one pension. Another time. It's reduced unemployment. I think sparrows in trees are already chirping about how much labour is being used in Slovenia. We have a good economic situation. Let us note the great economic growth. Above average, according to the other European countries. We have a very good finance minister, and I'm sure he'll be able to spray his wings on what we've been witnessing lately, so to speak, inflation. I must say, I was also concerned about high inflation. But given what kind of minister we have, especially in view of what good advice he has heard, especially from Mr Squeak and the Lakhovnik, there is no fear that this inflation will be overcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Excuse me? Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u130	Very briefly. If we accepted our proposals for amendments to coordinate pensioners, today we would not have more than 10,000 pensioners with just 365 euros and it would not be necessary to correct with a two-year delay the increase in protective allowances. Another time. I agree that we have a very good financial minister, in particular a very good finance minister for foreign creditors. That's right, but I totally agree with you. Or this minister is good because today he has burdened those children who have €10 in their pocket to repay loans in 2050, and we have a different opinion on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u132	I'll say good evening, too, though it'd probably be better if you could say good night. I think that today's debate, particularly by you, colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, has in many cases been a hole in the water and shooting past the target, because you have not really understood the meaning of today's extraordinary meeting. Parliament is certainly not a body that is not only incapable but also not competent, has no capacity, has no expertise to prepare proposals to address the causes of inflation. These bodies, these experts, the people who know this, are in the government, are in Banka Slovenije, are in the UMAR, are in the Office for the Protection of Competition and so on. And those who understand what the state system is, what individual branches of government are, should well know that at today's meeting the government could not have expected, and neither could you, dear coalition Members, to discover warm water here. Also the conclusions we have proposed and the amendments to your conclusions, which you have in your manner, no proposal, no amendment, no decision, no decision proposed by the opposition is good; it is good only what the Government prepares and then the coalition submits as its original proposal. That's why it's a waste of time for many of you. You are therefore summarizing Mr Šuštaršič's statement, which is certainly not a person who could, among other things, be credible as that expert who would advise us, to this government, what to do to address the causes of inflation. Not because he's not credible from the point of view of people. His initial statement, which we heard a few months ago, that those who don't have money to buy beer in a restaurant, go buy beer in a store and drink it in front of a fireplace - I think all those workers who don't have money or buy beer in a store should go to his house because he probably has a fireplace. I don't have a fireplace, so I don't have anything to drink beer from, and I don't like it. Let me add, if we wanted to hear what Mr Rant said on the committee, then we would probably see that our proposals for conclusions are in fact aimed at similar proposals as he did. You could only read one of his highlights, and this is an emphasis in which he said it was not good to immediately abolish the wage tax, because it was necessary to wait until it could be reconciled or balanced with the revenue side in order not to jeopardise the budget, because it would have to be trimped in one way or another. So when we cut spending [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] At the expense of the non-arms, they could also abolish the tax on wages. [[...]] And by doing so, the decision he recommended could also be carried out. I'm sorry, I'm out of time. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u133	Thank you very much. As I understand it, Mr. Kokalj has reported now. Yeah, that's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u134	Thank you very much. There's only one thing I'd like to point out. I don't think using the nation's disaster to score political points is always delicious. I think inflation is one thing that has hit us within such limits, I think we can all admit, not by the fault of this government, not by the fault of the previous government, but also by external circumstances. I think that sometimes it is also necessary to assess, from the point of view of some state-of-the-art, the subject of which is discussed in the National Assembly, in particular in terms of the usefulness of the entire population. I myself do not think that today's debate has contributed to anything. If we are publicly discussing the problem that we need to resolve together, as I say here, I think that, indeed, this not previous government has not created the conditions for such unexpected high inflation, but it would be much better to deal with such problems with public debates and then we need to push a little more on one hand and on the other hand, as the elections are approaching, we are Members, we are members of various political options. I think this can even have a negative impact on solving the problem itself. Creating some concern through such a public debate where there is clearly some exaggeration, and perhaps even a sense of fear or even some kind of panic atmosphere, I think it works the other way around as we would recommend to the government that it act. The government must itself, and also knows that it has to make certain moves, and it also draws them, as far as I can see, but otherwise the public financial situation in Slovenia, compared to some Member States, is not bad at all. We know that many Member States, very experienced, have very different problems in meeting these convergence criteria, one of which is the level of inflation with which Slovenia has problems. However, some much larger countries, with a much longer tradition, have significantly greater problems in certain areas. So I don't think it's too good, as I mentioned earlier, to solve common problems that have some kind of national character in this way. Because they don't help solve the problem. It also seems to me bad for Slovenian starting points to solve the border problem with Croatia, in some kind of competition, who will outsmart someone in positions and in a strategy at that, I think it does us no good, and I also think that today's debate has not helped us much in solving the problem alone. I would point out once again that there are also some colleagues who are sitting here now, which I understand, because they are political opposition and I also think that some of the arguments they have made hold and I think that the Government is also aware of and I think that today the Government has also shown responsibility for this and has also shown that it is possible to take additional measures to address this problem, but they know that when the Government comes, at least on the European Union Affairs Committee, where the meetings are closed to the public, we are well aware that it has not in the past allowed some of the proposals to loosen these convergence criteria. I think that the Government is also trying to implement what it advocates on the European level at home. Therefore, in this context, I encourage colleagues to limit the debate to real facts and to real solutions and to try to resolve this problem of inflation together, so that we do not happen, that we will do more harm than good. With regard to various monopolies in Slovenia, much has already been said today. I think that's the key to how we're going to solve it. I do not believe that only one office can do this to the government in order to avoid such a bad competition and to increase the prices of basic necessities of life. I think that the conclusions proposed by the Government today are correct and I will support them. This does not mean that the problem will be solved overnight, for it has not even been created overnight. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And I especially do not attribute it to this government, as it is attributed to the opposition. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. It's not a panic, it's a talk today. I forgive myself before even saying what I am thinking about inflation, let me say hello to Mr Jerovsk, who I suppose is listening to in his rooms, because he has not been here for hours. There's no panic, you say more or less everyone together because there's no inflation. That is how it is summarized almost from today’s conversations. At the same time, if it is, we are on track to make it less than the Minister himself when he was still here. Others say what we create by inflation of talks and by reporting to the public you are panicking yourself about the fundamental issue of this country, which is touching not only this moment but also the future. And here's the problem with the future. Today, Mr Ivan Grill raised the question of how, in the context of the inflation debate, the issue of restricting investment or real looking and maintaining growth can even be raised. Who will, or won't Mr. Pukšič, who will have the courage in the National Assembly to give up here in front of all the other parts of the road? That's not because what the voters are going to tell us. That's impossible. In fact, in view of the fact that inflation is referred to just before the elections, it is very, very dangerous and also a very dangerous fact. That is why I am very interested in how the coalition will behave in dealing with the balance and how sustainable it will be in expressing its desire for social transfers in general. Perhaps today, as a rule, has been repeatedly highlighted by some name that I call a marble man or a marble man when it was a question of limiting consumption. There was no way that there was any wish or section, as was said today, of the roads that lay on some member and MPs of the soul, that it had received a green light at a time when it was known that consumption had to be limited. There was no way the ministers were shaking because more was said. [[...]] During the 2004 electoral year, it was said not to be prohibited, but limited adoption of any acts or laws that you would like, and thus also from the state budget, increased spending in such a way as to jeopardise stability. We were really before we entered and before we got involved in the acquisition of the euro, but still. And what are we facing today? Today, however, we face so much in every law that comes these days and in these months on the table with incredible appetites, which, in the name of obtaining autumn votes, spread desires and appetites to such unrealistic possibilities that you should be in this light of irrational behaviour, not to say shame, but certainly embarrassing. The opening of a monsule in 2010 is, however, some earlier without any calculations or where millions are, as it were, equivalent to 100,000 euros, where it no longer matters what zero is, whether it is a diaphragm diet or free kindergartens. Self-denial, which is the logic of every healthy and smart policy at a time when it is a matter of welfare not only of the country in a narrower sense, but in a broader way, it is not here. And what worries me is what it means to curb inflation in conflict of desire, which, of course, comes from Mr Puksic, probably even in your congregation, when there is a budget issue, perhaps even in Ruša, I don't know. But at least there's no power. We have heard recently from this Prime Minister of the Government, who, in the light of the limitation of inflationary flows, has proposed that he should go somewhere and even reduce the RTV contribution elsewhere. Such populist measures, which I have listed in a series of those I mentioned earlier, are working within the various bill proposals that are now coming to the table [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr. Pojbich, I'm also telling you I don't know if he has [[....]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u137	Mrs. Shirca [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u138	I think it's in this desire for inflation. [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u139	Mrs. Shirca you have [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u140	inflation has already occurred and you can have room outside for this debate. [[...]] In short, let's lower the RTV contribution, because people will be very grateful to us, we'll say even less. But this is the interest, interest in the case, this is the interest of the public institution RTV Slovenia, and it does not even think or think that it is 70 percent as much as it used to get the RTV service from the contribution, but this percentage has already fallen so much that it is already slightly over 50%. The philosophy of such procedures is not just candy before the elections, there is more. In this case, RTV's dependence on politics is even greater. When they have less money, they'll want it more from the budget. If they want to receive it from the budget, they will have to kneel before the government and these already softened knees will have their effect. What I want to stress, however, could continue with other cases, is that curbing inflation at a time when the interests of electoral promises and effects are being broken can be double or triple dangerous. With the findings expressed by economists, and I can only repeat them again, this kind of behaviour can be dangerous, unproductive and what is our task is only to follow it, to warn, but certainly not, Mr Kokalj, to sweep it under the table and to create it as if it were a very beautiful and sunny climate, but to see that the storm that has been warned before April 2007 is much earlier at work and there are only the consequences of these waves at work and tomorrow that they will be even greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I note that everyone who has been reported for discussion and who has been in the Chamber has been given a word. This is why the debate is exhausted. Does a representative of the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] On behalf of the candidates? On behalf of the proponents, Mr. Squeakl, you have 45 seconds available, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u142	I would just like to invite you, on behalf of the applicants, to support at least the amendments that we have tabled in your proposals to ensure that the measures are at least internally consistent. Of course, I hope you will support the amendments in this way. However, in our individual conclusions, we will tell you where we think that the political assessment of what the past was like, after the European Commission says otherwise when the European Central Bank says otherwise, when Banka Slovenije says otherwise, it is completely pointless and illogical. That's why I urge you to think more seriously. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled to the updated proposal for conclusions. I am putting forward the first amendment to the first decision in the debate. The investors are the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the Group of Social Democrats, the Group of Zares, the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament and the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Who wants a word? In doing so, I remind you that the time foreseen for this debate is in common time, and it is the power to identify who else can debate. Here you go, please. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the first decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. I get it. [[...]] I am adjourning the session, and we will continue the vote at 21:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u144	Dear Members and Members. I would ask if we could start and try the third decision on the first amendment to the first decision. We're voting. I note that 58 Members and Members voted in favour of 21 votes to 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the second amendment to the second decision. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. An explanation of the voice? [[...]] [[talking to each other]] I just want to say again that we're going to be perfectly clear. [[...]] The proposer shall have at his disposal another six minutes. This also applies to the debate on amendments. Since we have previously given the floor to individual applicants, I will tell you that this is Mr Petek, who is available as a candidate for another six minutes. [[...]] [[talking to each other]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. Squeak. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The amendment we are proposing is linked to our desire that the National Assembly, after a failed partnership attempt for the European Union, when the President of the Government said that he would not inform the National Assembly monthly of the actions of the President-in-Office to increase inflation, 6.4 is the annual inflation, it would be good for the Government to report on the content and effects of the anti-inflation measures taken once a month at the beginning of the parliamentary questions. I know it would look something like this: March month - zero measures, inflation 7.2, April - zero measures, inflation 8.3, May - zero measures, inflation is rising. If we had done this for at least one month, two months, the government would soon see the need to act. Otherwise, we will take advantage of the remaining business options and ask Mr President of the Government at the end of February, late March, end of April, end of May, end of June and not least in September why he did nothing to reduce inflation in 2008. Thank you very much. Please and I suggest that you support the measure in order to avoid the negative effects of autumn.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the third amendment to the fourth decision. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 34. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] I also note that the amendment has not been adopted. We proceed with the fourth amendment to the fifth conclusion. With the amendment to the fifth store. We're moving on to decision-making. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u147	The amendment to the fifth decision is trying to correct your wrong conclusion. For you say, despite the fact that you have adopted the 2008 budget, which says that spending should increase by 11%. The government is opposed to the Public Finance Act - you are acting differently. However, we say that the rebalancing announced by John Janša should be such that the government acts anti-inflationary and that the structural deficit will be reduced. The structural deficit is not a major challenge, no big definition, but very simple - single effects are eliminated and in 2008, when you eliminate the single effects of higher growth above potential growth and so on, that I do not go into detail, the structural deficit is increasing. That is why Mr Almunia said yesterday that Slovenia is acting pro-cyclically in 2008, and this is bad. Our proposal for a decision just wants to oblige the Prime Minister to come with the right balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 59 votes in favour and 24 in favour against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to the Sixth Decision. Mr Milan Petek, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. We are in the process of addressing the amendment, by which, I believe, we are almost hopelessly trying to correct the conclusions that they have literally forced or by voting reached by members of the coalition. In this amendment, we propose to adopt a dictatorship "The National Assembly calls on the Government of Slovenia to present the effects of high inflation on employment growth and economic growth in the medium term." It seems incomprehensible to us that the Government does not express its willingness to bring all these effects into a document that will, in fact, make us all, Members or the Slovenian public, that is, all citizens, know and feel, or at least know, from the Government, to imagine how this high inflation will affect our living conditions, our employment growth, that is to say, the inflation that has such a fateful impact on this society and our economy. In fact, we are surprised that you are rejecting an amendment that does not substantially change the conclusion and does not complement it in such a way that it is not complementary. And that is why we propose that you also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 60 votes in favour and 24 in favour against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the amendment to the 7th decision, by debate and decision. Explanation of voice. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go. [[The ad in the hall.]] I've only given the word "magic." Gypsies. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u151	With this amendment, we are trying to correct a mistake on yesterday's committee, where despite the presence of the Bank of Slovenia, despite the fact that the social partners are looking for the government's help in agreeing on an appropriate raise of salaries without a sentence, you have rejected our proposal for a thorough anti-inflation plan. Today we have quoted you several times from the Bank of Slovenia and I believe that the Bank of Slovenia could help the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister of Finance is likely to agree. Therefore, we propose that you adopt an amendment with which a thorough anti-inflation plan will be drawn up in the year of elections. If you do not do so, the task of the first or one of the first measures of the new teams will be to reduce inflation. But that's going to be a lot harder because we're going to accelerate inflation by 10% in the middle. It would be good, therefore, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, not just the electorate of this or that option, to act now. Support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 35. [[in favour of 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the amendment to the eighth conclusion. Mr Milan Petek, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u153	So we obviously do not find a common language here to determine what the actual social situation is in the Slovenian space and what the degree of poverty is. The government and coalition are satisfied with the minimum amendments to certain laws, which, in fact, have a milder thirst than the actual benefit and relief of the socially weak. Ignore that, in fact, if we compare all 27 European Union countries with our average personal income, we are at the bottom of this income scale, and on this average, we have an even more exposed social threshold for some of our employees or even more unemployed. And that is why we wanted to achieve this amendment that we are all aware that this is what the Government is aware of, that action is necessary and that we cannot therefore be satisfied with the fact that it has actually done enough. We believe that it is necessary to look ahead, not to see that everything was placed under the table within one month and that there is no need for us to face the social situation in Slovenia. That's why I'm calling for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-14-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended this by discussing and deciding on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposals for decisions. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 35 votes in favour, 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I find that the conclusions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night.
