ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Zvonko Černač, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Matjaž Han, Ferry Horvat, Bojan Homan, Anton Kokalj, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Alojz Sok, Cyril Testen, Bogomir Zamernik and Mag. Franc Znidaršič from 3 p.m. on. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gardens, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister, Dr. Milan Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u2	Honourable Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members and Members! Thank you very much for the opportunity to talk to you for the first few minutes at the second reading of the novel of the kindergarten law. As you probably know, the Republic of Slovenia has been working for a number of years to ensure the highest possible quality of work in preschool institutions, as well as the highest possible level of accessibility for all children, especially in the second age period, from 3 to 6 years. I believe that this novelty is going in this direction, namely, to further enhance quality as well as to ensure a greater level of justice when we are talking about options for inclusion. It is true, however, that this novel is following another important objective, namely, the burden of families paying for kindergartens with more than one child involved. This measure is quite consistent with other measures of family policy, with the aim, the main objective of trying to ensure better demographic trends than we have seen them now or as we have witnessed them in the past few years or for as long a period of time as possible. Unlike the amendment adopted by the working body, the Committee of the National Assembly, this time we agree with the latest proposal, in addition to the fact that the other child is free of charge for parents, to include a certain dynamic of parental stress for years to come. The Ministry calculated that it would be possible for five-year-olds to lose 50% of their parent's payments in 2010, for 2012 – the same ratio for four-year-olds and for three-year-olds in 2014. This means that we would gradually start introducing unloading for all children from 2010 onwards. So, 2010 for five-year-olds, 2012 for four-year-olds and 2014 for three-year-olds. This would make children more readily available in kindergartens. It is known that the recommendation at European level is 90% of the children involved, a performance indicator, and I think that these measures could achieve this objective relatively. Now we're about 82% involved. As you know, our parents are slightly above average in comparison with other countries. With us they pay almost 32% of the total price of kindergarten. In Denmark 22%, Finland 15%, Austria 20%, Sweden 11% and the Czech Republic, which is still a step ahead of other countries, are less than 8%. Thus, we would gradually be able to achieve that within a few years, parents would be burdened comparatively with co-financing of preschool education. In this way Slovenia will also maintain the high standards and standards it has in preschool education, which also provides a high level of service. It is true that this Slovenian system is quite expensive compared to other countries, but in our view it ensures high quality and we must maintain this quality. This quality is also reflected in the ratio of the number of teachers to children. In us this ratio is 6 : 1 for 6 hours a day, and this is an extremely good percentage. It's only France, but only up to two years better under this criterion. In short, in this novel, we also want to address the issue of the grey market and thus protect children, increase access to kindergartens, including by extending the forms of shorter programmes, not only to demographically threatened areas, information accessibility, which we have already introduced, and flexibility of smaller units. This novel brings quite a few additions, which will surely be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] contribute not only to the quality of pre-school education but also to the better involvement of children, in particular in the second reference period. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Grimes to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u4	Your Honor, everyone has a very nice greeting. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered this law at its 29th meeting, on 13 February 2008. A number of materials were submitted to the members of the Committee, including opinions from around 15 municipalities, as well as written opinions from the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and legal services, which had a number of comments on the original proposal. A total of 16 amendments were adopted, of which five amendments were adopted by the Committee. Most of the debates related to the articles governing the gradual introduction of free kindergartens as a final objective, and if there was still a relative high consensus on this objective, there was a wide variety of views on the other amendments voted which were attached to the last year of the child before inclusion in primary school. There have been several warnings that the profession is learning that it is a better integration that covers the entire second period of the child. This is said, since the third year was completed, since it is not only a question of socialisation, which is mainly related to this last year, but also to the development of certain children's qualities, certain qualities, which cover the whole second period, that is to say from the third year forward. It is therefore not surprising that several amendments have been tabled in this direction, and we propose that, as the Committee has done, after examining and voting on the amendments, together with the amendments voted, the National Assembly adopts this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before we begin, I would like to tell you that Mrs Shirca has asked me because she cannot because of official obligations if I could present the position of the Group as the first one. Who's opposed? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor. On behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you for your kindness. You still have a little time for your own concentration. I also want you to listen to our position, where I would like to stress in particular that the debate at the time of this adoption, with the speedy adoption of this law, was certainly not good for our thinking. In some ways, she has bypassed the profession or, in some cases, even those who will be the most tangulated by this law, let us say, bend their hands. On the other hand, we have had problems in Really for quite some time with all those laws that come in the day, so to speak, before the elections. And it happens that these laws, which are in the light of the consequences that will only happen in a few years' time, say, so-called electoral laws, are experiencing some kind of treatment that is similar to bidding on the market. We did not want to take part in this auction and also in certain changes, especially in Article 14, because such important changes could only be the results of a high consensus and dialogue, not the last-minute amendments coming on the table and actually difficult to identify, especially because they will be burdening the budget in 2010, 2011, 2014, and so on, not tomorrow and tomorrow, but not in 2008 and 2009. At the same time, I must also point out that the debate was not a good one on the Committee on Culture, because there was an offensive, impatient and discriminatory expression on the part of the SDS Group leader, and I should really take this moment to say that our protest, which Mr Tanko said to Members or Members of Parliament, was being disassociated, which we think is wrong, and I should certainly apologize, or the gentleman who said it, for in some way restricting the freedom of expression to individuals on the working body. In short, there are enough reasons for doubting good solutions if, in the electoral year, a law is passed quickly and in doubt, which is not known what the consequences will be in practice. Unfortunately, the concrete articles that we disagreed with are, that is to say, those who extend shorter programmes from six to seventy-twenty hours and eliminate the simultaneous presence of the tutor and the assistant during the rest period, but of course the public is so much more attentive to article 14; the article, which brings new discounts, is forgiven in the co-financing of parents of payment for kindergartens. This noble concern that burdens parents or that will burden parents in the distant future cannot be reversed; it is in the light of the autumn elections, because if it were different, the Government would have made such proposals sooner and without reference to the Court of Auditors, which was also slightly manipulated in this case, and this would have been introduced in 2008 and 2009, in short, in the financial year. But even if we forget about this demagogy, we must not forget that the proposals for solutions for cheaper kindergartens are not systematic and those that you remember, which all of you or even all of us have recently stressed how unfair it is if children are brought into kindergarten with a Mercedes or a Porsche, they will not, in fact, be rehabilitated. This is a very complicated and very broad and hard-to-recognizable system of financing kindergartens and assistance to parents for kindergartens, and I think it is very dangerous if, with one amendment, where within a reduced process, within a limited discussion, there are solutions that do not, as I say, have sufficiently weighty arguments in the background and are, of course, very, very pleasantly colored. We will also listen to the debate, particularly on Article 14, and if this debate does not have clear arguments, I will certainly distance myself from supporting such a solution. I'm talking about Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Colleagues and Colleagues. In our opinion, this law is simply a waste of sand in the eyes, as it creates new controversy, new injustices and introduces free kindergarten for the families of another child only if they are both in kindergarten at the same time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all the opposition's amendments were over-voted - smooth. If today this National Assembly confirms this law, the law on kindergartens, needs a good excuse, a good excuse for all those families to whom we will cause new injustices. Of course you can say, "Well, we're giving something! They're going to have some of this." That's right. Let's just see how. I'm coming from Primorska. In the bilingual area, kindergartens for the Italian minority are already free of charge, free of charge. I don't mind. But why aren't they for Slovenian families? In primary education we have free school and school activities in these schools, which are intended for the Italian community. It means lunch, snacks, excursions. We also pay for photocopying. Public institutions, including kindergartens, are already owned by municipalities and municipalities, some of them can subsidize the price to parents, others because they do not have a budget, because they are dependent on the state. And that is also appropriate for the participation of preschool children in our country. In 2007, we recorded only 64% of children's participation in kindergartens. The Slovenian national party has tabled three amendments. The most important amendment for us is the amendment to Article 16 which has unfortunately not been adopted. This amendment states that child pay exemptions are also granted to families with multiple children in which older children are already enrolled in primary education. This is a very important argument because with us, even if you say it is, primary school is not free. No, it's just not free. It pays for everything, soon even the air, probably, that the kids are breathing. It is very, very unfair that some families can afford lunch for their children in primary school, but not for other families, and that for these families the primary school world decides whether or not they are poor enough to grant them lunch. And that's a cost, too. This is also a cost that is not taken into account in this law, and if we are talking about family, we should also consider it. Of course, the other problem is private kindergartens. Many times there is simply no room in the congregation in kindergartens that provide public service activity. And parents are forced to seek protection for their children in private schools. Why not - our amendment offered this - in such cases subsidized the price, of course, if we found that we could not include the child in kindergarten because the kindergartens were overrun in this area. You refused to do that, too. Finally, I would also like to say that, in the context of the protection of children, the Ministry has tried to regulate certain areas by legalising this work. However, I do not believe that everyone will register on this grey market and that this will also remove the deficiency that today is due to the lack of professional education, the lack of conditions, administrative and technical conditions, for the protection of children, and also many times the minimum hygiene conditions in such families or environments where these children are protected. In short, the law is very poorly prepared, perhaps liked by some who do not know it deep enough, but will cause new injustices, and we are against it. And, dear fellows and colleagues, we will not object to this, as has already been said, because it brings something, but it is very bad if you accept it as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Procedural question or proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u10	I only propose, Mr President, that you inform your colleague of the fact that the Zares Group is also in opposition and that it is not in any way true of his claim that all the opposition amendments were rejected, as he said, but that, among other things, the amendment tabled by Ambassador Maja Shirca, therefore a member of the opposition, was adopted by the 6th article, and that his claim is therefore manifestly unrealistic. In addition, I would point out that the opposition's votes were also given to some amendments, warning that this is precisely to keep the article open so that a greater consensus can then be sought. The proposed amendments are now going this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u11	This was a purely procedural proposal, what you said. But I think Mr. Friend has heard your story. So I can't give you the replica. I'd like to ask you for a second time in these procedural proposals to really please? [[...]] I wouldn't discuss it. Excuse me? Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u12	Given the insolence of the president of the working body, I can certainly argue that if he were principled and principled, he should ask his colleague, given what was happening when some fellow Members, colleagues, took a very low approach, he himself apologized. What you've been saying and what you've accepted, that's a mild-mannered heathen. True, this amendment was [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u13	This is not a procedural proposal either.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u15	I said, "No." Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This debate between my two fellow Members shows very clearly how serious the Government is to change in a very important area; the area of pre-school education. The whole thing is taken with your left hand. With his left hand, or he throws himself over his thumb, as we like to say. And such or other nice words around free kindergartens - because it was a topic when it was talked about the law on kindergartens - such beauty has been a lot lately, but I believe that in these days, months before the elections there will be so much more; because it sounds good, but even though it is all about hair. Hands on your heart! The undeniable fact is that kindergartens are a big financial resource for parents; also for local communities. Local communities are those important segments in the whole matter, which cover an important part of the costs for parents who are unable to pay full prices of free or preschool education, I apologize. That was the point. One of the representatives of the SDS coalition made it clear and clear at the meeting of the parent working body that the main objective or purpose of this law, the Education Act, the burden of local communities, not parents, local communities. What is important and should be a basic guide, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the system and changes in preschool education, is the quality, quality of services, the quality of education and the protection of children. I deliberately said or said first education, education is the one that is important, and finally you remind yourself, respected colleagues and colleagues, government representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport, in your explanation you have clearly written about the impact of kindergarten on children's development. Children from at least the third year forward who attended kindergarten in all areas have developed in terms of greater efficiency and adaptability in terms of cognitive, emotional, social or personal components. Children who attended kindergarten expressed more joy and confidence in school, were more likely to join a peer group, and were more independent of adults. You wrote this down at the beginning in a proposal for a law on kindergartens. But, among other things, the novel encourages other forms, other forms, I will say, pre-school care and child training: shorter kindergartens will be introduced, even building on this, because it is very important that people have the option to include their children in shorter programmes, on these shorter programmes will be employed assistants of teachers - there is no longer a condition of a teacher who has to be professionally, formally trained, will be enough an assistant educator who will carry out the work of raising and protecting children on her own. And I'm going to warn you once again, and I've told my mother's work body what's the point of what you're doing, how much you want to rationalize the area of preschool education on a quality basis, on the basis of lowering standards. Employment of a referee in a parliamentary group requires a sixth level of education, for a referee who performs purely technical work. With this law in the field of pre-school education, you lay the groundwork for secondary education for the professional work of the protection and upbringing of pre-school children, respected colleagues and colleagues. What you are doing is not serious and can be worrying because it can have long - term negative consequences! It is not just free kindergartens that will be introduced or will not even be introduced. It's a delusion. This is an ugly deception that puts children and families in an unequal position. Those children who have a sibling in kindergarten will be entitled at the same time to benefit under this law, but the other children will not. It's a marriage like this. It's hard to get our hands on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u18	Dear, good-bye. One of the main objectives of the new Kindergarten Act is to achieve 90% of the involvement of children of the second age period in the preschool education framework. It follows from the March 2002 European Council conclusions that Member States of the European Union are expected to reach 33% of the participation of children under the age of three and 90% of the participation of children from three years to school by 2010. Data on the involvement of children in our kindergartens show that the proportion of children involved in the first period of age is 38.5%, which means that we are above that target of the European Union, while the proportion of children involved from the second age period is good 80%, which means that we are still lagging behind that target. The proposal for a new law on kindergartens to achieve this objective provides that, in addition to the offer by kindergarteners, other forms of preschool education, which have already been possible, may not have come to life in practice or some have not come to life. This concerns private educators, foster families and the guardian of preschool children. The proposal contains provisions to achieve more stable and transparent financing for kindergartens. They provide that the municipality of kindergarten shall be financed in accordance with the agreed price of the programme to be drawn up when the financial plan for kindergarten is adopted and when the municipal budget is adopted. In order to cover the costs for children who would be exempt from payment, funds will be provided to kindergartens from the State budget. However, from the municipal budget, the difference between the payment of parents and the price of the programme in which the child is involved will continue to be ensured. The proposal introduces a single model of financing for kindergartens, allowing for a balanced and well-founded use of public funds, both from the municipal budget and from the state budget. The State budget will provide parents with co-financing of payments for other and further children from the family who are simultaneously involved in kindergarten. As the founder of the implementation of the expenditure of kindergarten, the municipality will monitor the regular monthly reports from kindergartens on the implementation of the price by element. A mandatory conclusion of a mutual financing agreement shall be entered into to regulate the relationship between the municipality and kindergarten. This will provide more transparent funding for kindergartens than public institutions, where the current differences between programme prices can be significantly reduced and parental payments for kindergartens will become more comparable and more acceptable to parents. The bill also includes a solution designed to relieve families with more than one child involved in kindergarten at the same time, by taking over part of the parental payments for all the young children involved in kindergarten. We are gradually introducing some other news. By doing so, we will ensure that children of the second age are more involved in kindergartens or preschool education, as one of the goals of the law is said to be. From the point of view of social and family policy, the solution represents a significant burden on parents, whose spending on kindergarten represents a considerable expenditure in the family budget. Several amendments have been adopted in the process of adopting the novel, some will be adopted in this reading, which improves the novelty and is an important step forward in our view, so we will support the amendment and some amendments in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u20	I'm not talking yet, and I'm running out of time.) Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with the co-workers. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Kindergarten Act, dealt with in short-term proceedings, has been tabled by the Government in the shadow of the withdrawal of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. And although she has promised to withdraw mainly those parts of the novel that have come across the most resistance in public, the current novel is equalising payments for children in private and public kindergartens. It also reduces the required standards for the establishment of private kindergartens. Just as much as it says to believe the promises of the government. Although there are 32 articles that include a novelty, the current law has 67 articles, we are considering the law in a reduced procedure. There's no reason why, after a reduced procedure. There is nowhere to explain the real financial implications for local communities. It is only about how much this will have implications for the state budget, but not for local communities, and how the proposals change from consideration to consideration, and I dare say that the applicant himself probably does not know exactly what the consequences are. Since I am already feeling sick when I talk about the laws coming from this Ministry when it is necessary to determine the degree of harmonisation of the law with the social partners, the professional and interested public, let me take this path with the opinion of the Community of Slovenian municipalities, which says: "If the start of discussions on possible future amendments to the Law on kindergartens was based on the results of the revision of the preschool education in Slovenia, which was carried out by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006, the proposal for amendments and the completion of the law on kindergartens with the requirements and guidelines of the said revision is not quite common. The proposed changes do not solve key issues and dilemmas that have arisen in the area of preschool education for some time... - what types we want, what are the tasks of municipalities and when and how a country, standards, fluctuations in children between municipalities, what and how much, if any, parents should pay, but also add, "The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia also warns that they represent some proposed solutions to the new both substantive and financial obligations for municipalities, which are not followed by guarantees of additional funding for the municipality." For illustration only, some opinions from individual local communities could also be cited. Social Democrats advocate the fullest possible involvement of children before entering school in the public preschool education network. In doing so, we rely on the knowledge of the profession that pre-school education is very important for socialisation, for further education, for children's intellectual and emotional development. If we are to achieve the greatest possible social inclusion and equal opportunities for further life for those children who do not come from the most socially enabling environment, inclusion must rise - we agree with this objective. However, as much involvement as possible, we are not prepared to sacrifice at the expense of reducing the quality of preschool education. And here we have a number of comments on the proposed amendment. The extension of short programmes from the upper limit of 600 hours to 720 hours of these programmes brings half-day preschool education closer and, since lower education is sufficient for these programmes, we cannot talk about lowering standards. The reduction in parental payments seems acceptable to us, but as it changes from moment to moment in this law, only the direction that Social Democrats can agree with is indicated, but, of course, there are not, as is said, sufficient resources and other indicators. What it means to eliminate the co-existence between rest is a matter of which the profession has a very clear position and which the applicants question it as usual. As it is said, some positive solutions cannot be completely denied to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, fellow Members, Members, Minister, all others present! At the LDS, we find that this law, as usual, which comes from this Ministry, is once again not in line with the social partners and, say, the professional council should only deal with it today. Of course, we regret that. We also regret that the law is introduced after a rapid procedure or a reduced procedure, since preschool education is certainly one of the most important areas. Pre-school education refers to children during the most sensitive period, when they are also most susceptible and when they are essentially based on their later education and careers. As a result, all changes in this area must be made as imaginative as possible and not adopted as soon as possible. We also note and regret that the proposals of the founders, i.e. the municipalities, have not been taken into account with regard to the amendments that the proposer is expected to make to the law. We welcome the aim of the law to increase the participation of children in kindergartens to 90%. And in this context, we have tabled our own amendment, in which, unlike the proposer, we do not reduce the burden on the parents of the second child, but for the first child, because the first child - and most of them too - is the most expensive and for the first child some family budgets must contribute a disproportionately higher proportion than any other. And as a result, our amendment follows this goal of burdening the first child and lowering the second child by 70%. And it doesn't matter whether you're in kindergarten at the same time or if you're already an older kid in primary school. Well, then the costs are actually even higher than if they're both in kindergarten. We also want to relieve the middle layer of payment for kindergartens in particular, because it can happen very quickly that if someone, as an example, pays up to 1 euro, they will fall into a higher class and have to pay 3 euros more and is therefore in harm's way. Next. We welcome the introduction of the guardian at home in that part that regulates the grey field of protection at home, which was also the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. We have also tabled an amendment that reduces the number of children at home from eight to six or less, and we expect this to be accepted, of course, as coalition parties have also tabled a similar amendment. We warn, however, that home security is by no means the same as preschool education in kindergarten. In this case it is a matter of protection, and in kindergarten it is also very important in the area of education. And as long as, of course, we now have 90% of the population in kindergartens and at home, this goal, 90% in kindergartens, of course, has not yet been achieved and this is important. It's important to be aware of that. We have already heard about short-term programmes that, in fact, they are becoming identical to half-days, and, as usual, we have not been given enough clear explanations here as to what the purpose of this change is and why it is good. If it's really good, then it would be good to hear why. At the same time, the presence of the nanny during the rest period - that is, the termination of this means that those children, especially the elderly, who are not accustomed to sleep during the rest of the afternoon, will now, when only one is present at rest, have to shrink again. It's a very big tram for some kids. In the end, let me just point out the problem of funding. The municipalities of less developed areas are at least twice as damaged as compared to the more developed ones. Once these municipalities’ incomes are lower due to lower incomes and lower employment, they must therefore contribute more to the co-financing of kindergartens, since their citizens and citizens are in lower classes. Consequently, with less money they have to contribute more to kindergartens and municipalities remains less for development projects. This is the most important thing about funding, which must certainly be regulated and changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members and Members of Parliament and all those who accompany us. Good-bye. The new Kindergarten Act, which is ahead of us, aims to increase the involvement of children in preschool care, education, and to make kindergartens affordable for parents. In particular, the legal basis for the introduction of forms of pre-school education, the establishment of an information centre where free places in kindergartens will be visible, and in particular the financial burden on parents. We welcome the new form of child guardian protection. Child guardians as a form of protection mean that parents will be able to seek the necessary protection for their children at a time when kindergartens are not available and that children need adequate care and protection. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the Ombudsman cannot compete with kindergartens, which are already feared by employees, as co-financing by the State, or by local communities, is not envisaged for investments or for protection. Nor can the guardians replace kindergartens and their upbringings; they can only be a complementary service for a time when kindergartens do not work, in a place where they are not available, to bridge distress during sickness, week, evening or ever. However, the service is welcome and appropriate because the baby - sitter will be able to come and watch over the children or to protect them at his home, which will have to comply with the laws of a well - arranged and safe home. So the Ombudsman is a complementary form of child protection, a service for parents, a welcome form, and I hope that we will no longer rub it in the toilet with various standards and at all costs want to compare it with kindergartens in this regard. In Novi Slovenija we think other solutions are appropriate. It seems appropriate for us to be able to extend shorter residence programmes, which are extended to children of all ages, by means of a new proposal for a law. We cannot agree with the obvious that it is a non-professional solution that eliminates the co-existence of the educator and the assistant educator at the time of the child's rest. And finally, surely, the most important novelty in the novel, which parents look forward to. Free kindergarten for the second and every next child in kindergarten when parents in kindergarten have multiple children enrolled at the same time. We are also pleased and feel that it is an encouraging solution to the gradual introduction of co-financing for kindergartens, for all children of the second age period. What worries us in New Slovenia is that there will be too few places in kindergartens, so we need to think about increasing investments in kindergartens, especially where they are not yet there or do not, for example, have child protection for the first period, let's say. The fact is that there will be a greater influx of enrolments in kindergartens and greater involvement in pre-school education is also the aim of the applicant. Finally, in New Slovenia, we support the law, because it means, from a financial point of view, the burden on parents, it brings new forms of protection and thus makes children more accessible to protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u26	Dear Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers. Dear Members and Members. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have already stated in our programme that we are in favour of a social state and of reforms that would improve the social status of citizens. We are particularly committed to the benefits of our youngest children, as we all know that quality preschool education and, in general, such environments are one of the most important factors in the socialisation of the child, its healthy development and the source of the first social relations. We are therefore constantly working to relieve the parents' country of the cost of kindergartening, which is a huge financial expenditure for many. We are convinced that such a burden would have an extremely good impact on the better coordination of the family and service obligations of parents and on the country's demographic policy, as such a measure would encourage young people to create their own family and decide for more children. We are pleased that we have made progress in coordinating the bill because we thought it was the original solution for parents to be exempt from the payment of kindergarten for younger children only if more than one child, poor or too narrow, is included in kindergarten. Such a solution would not put all parents in the same position. Only those families with more than one child in the family, but not those with older children or children, for example, attending primary school, would gain something. We all know that the primary school for parents is not free, so in this respect all parents, regardless of the age of their children, should be treated equally. The new solution, which assumes that parents would gradually pay less, up to 50% of the kindergarten price, is more acceptable to us and in our opinion benefits a much wider range of people. We are pleased that several parents will be included in the beneficiaries' circle and that parents will be in a more equal position in this way, regardless of how many children they have and whether these children attend kindergarten or are already involved in further education. Such a change gives the law a slightly more meaningful picture and in fact foresees the benefits of each child and at least a little financial burden on each parent. A few of us are disturbed only by the fact that these facilities for parents will only be possible gradually; of course, this is another story related to funds. We also support the arrangements of the guardian of preschool children, and we believe that it is good that the conditions for carrying out this activity and the duties of guardians are precisely laid down. Such as entering a register with the Minister responsible for preschool education. This ensures greater security, both for children and for parents, as the records provide an overview of persons involved in the protection of preschool children. This solution largely prevents black work, and it is also an additional and particularly safe option for parents who do not want to include their children in kindergarten or for their children in kindergarten for such or other reasons. In our parliamentary group, we will support this proposal for amendments to the Kindergarten Act, because we believe that it is good after the last coordination, that it provides benefits for all parents and not just for a handful. We hope that the time will soon come when the budget can be planned so that preschool education will be free for all children and that in this way we will further pursue the objectives of a positive family policy that is of fundamental importance throughout our party. However, since we are committed to any change that would help people to a better quality of life and have a positive impact on demographic policy in the Republic of Slovenia, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. And Mr. Willi Rezman on behalf of the Desus Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! It was indeed clear in the introductory presentations to hear some prying words and controversial thoughts, and in the DeSUS Group we estimate that the bill is well prepared enough to be supported and therefore will be supported. Some amendments, not all, will receive our support. Among these are the amendments that came from the opposition. At least the person who speaks about the group that the Ombudsman can manage and is his LDS proponent, such as the one that ensures the maximum number of children to be included in free of charge and proposed by the SNS. So we are not disturbed by this political definition, and we also believe that this pre-school care and education is too important to be politicised to the level of the pre-election theme, as we have heard several times today. In the DeSUS Group, we remember that we discussed this issue when we were just preparing a coalition agreement, and that even our proposal to write in the coalition contract was, so today, it says, that the coalition must prepare and provide a programme that will be kind to children and young people and thus to the family. It is likely that the lack of an integral text on this subject has not been written, but individual structural parts of this programme are being implemented and that we would not be exclusive owners of these ideas in DeSUS, to say that we were encouraged and professionally equipped with advice from Slovenian UNICEF and the Slovenian Alliance of Youth Friends. So it is our view that the time when we began to talk about this was rightly chosen and therefore was favorable and not a preeminent time. The introduction may have made some, we say, not the best move, when the Ministry of Education and Sport first cited the comments of municipalities, mayors, the Court of Auditors' comments and the Commission's comments on the supervision of public finances, as if they were "agencies" that changed it. It's not like that. It is not just from the outside that there is an initiative to make a difference, to make things better, to make things better. It should be recalled that autonomous initiatives have also been quite something and that the profession within this area has therefore had significant comments that have been taken into account. Of course there are problems. But, for example, problems are not just the burden of municipal budgets. We know that some congregations have been very different, and we have two ways of financing now. One way is discriminatory in that the price for domestic children is different from those we call non-domestic, and of course this is politically colored. For the lower prices the children of those parents who are electors in a certain congregation have. Those who have to bring their children there have different prices. There are quite a few such cases. I know them empirically, and these mistakes need to be corrected. The second system, however, was a tourist system, so that some mayors and the council of the municipalities would say that children emphatically named this area and gave additional ratings, which led to very large differences in payments and economic prices and in the costs of individual kindergartens. Let me briefly mention some of the points we have in this regard regarding the reduction in the presence of the educator in the department when it comes to rest. We know that today rest is no longer something that we would say is to put the children in bed, wrap them in blankets, drop the blinds and turn off the light, but today rest is something else. They're mostly active. It is therefore necessary to consider whether there is no better solution in this area. Otherwise, we believe that in the proposal, especially because families are being burdened, there are sufficient solutions for the DeSUS Group to support this bill. Including those two amendments I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25.2.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendments of the SD Group, the Zares Group's amendment, the SDS Group's amendment, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and the LDS Group's amendment. I'm opening the application. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. However, the misleading fact that I am not saying a false explanation to the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport on the first time of the amendment is that I would like to say the following. Indeed, of the many amendments tabled, one amendment was adopted by Ambassador Majda Shirca, who followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and was identical in his form with the amendment of the coalition parties. In this is the secret of the great success of one adopted amendment. The amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to Article 9 is the same as the amendment on the Committee, and I do not think that voting at this plenary session will have any better effect. However, at the time of the amendment, which is acknowledged to be very drastic because it proposes deleting the article, a few essential things need to be said. The area covered by this article is the guardian of preschool children. Nor did the applicants hide that the regulation of this area is, in fact, to some extent linked to the regulation of work on a black basis. It is a matter of forecasting how to increase the involvement of children in pre-school education that the Group of Social Democrats would expect, in particular, solutions that would support the announced objective. However, the Ombudsman does not contribute to this objective because the article regulates matters that will remain outside the preschool system even after they are in force. In particular, only secondary education is prescribed, there is a need to have some additional professional qualifications after qualification for the Ombudsman of pre-school children and the activity will have to be regulated in accordance with the provisions of companies. This is something that will be outside the funding system and other provisions of the pre-school education system, as regulated by the Kindergarten Act. For whom this is possible pure formalism and insignificant warning of things where we can quietly wave our hand and say, "We will arrange something that has not been arranged so far." But did those who proposed this solution examine exactly what it meant and what matters behind it is the arrangements of this Institute of Preschool Children’s Watcher if an unpunished person with a secondary education according to the terms of reference is involved in this activity? Ipés will have to report his activity, the activity will be counted as income from which he will have to separate taxes, he has to apply himself, and I do not know how many cases it will be possible to follow those who have, say, one or two children's homes as guardians. It is certainly expected that they will apply and leave the grey labour market for those who will have more children in protection because it is an observable activity and it is not possible to hide it from the public. But for those who will protect one or two children, the question is whether or not this will be counted in the area of what was found in the Court of Auditors that in 40% of kindergartens unoccupied children may also be involved, but they did not say or show. For these are those who have some other quality of child protection. It is not known how many of those who protect their children are relatives or perhaps even those who do not expect any payment or compensation. It is simply that the article was included with so many gaps that the Law-Legal Service also warned at this gap. The amendment, which was adopted by the Committee, partly regulated certain matters by setting at least minimum spatial standards. However, there are still many open questions and concerns which, as the article is now written down, do not address. It is true that spatial standards are now somehow defined, but not all other standards that regulate the work of a private entrepreneur or a self-employed entrepreneur, as this will in fact be the guardian of preschool children. There is no prescribed working time or what a person would expect to be prescribed when protecting children, these are hygiene standards and more. Well, there's a lot of holes, but I only ordered some. I am not saying that there is no attempt in the proposal to regulate an unregulated activity. But the law will only legalize the matter. The guardian of pre-school children, the independent entrepreneur, will be included in the Kindergarten Act, will be exempted from the system of supervision, will be the one who is bound to carry out the educational protection activity and which, as provided for in the pre-school teacher, would, however, supervise the kindergarten in accordance with the curriculum prescribed for kindergarten education. This isn't because it's just about protection, I stress it's not about education programs. And what is not answered is a very important question of how the proposer responds to the plight of parents who cannot because of the increased pressure on kindergartens to reduce the obligation to pay their parents; that there will be no mistake - Social Democrats believe that the programme should be dealt with by the state to the greatest extent possible, so that the proportion of children, in particular in the second-age period involved in preschool education, would be as high as possible. And it seems appropriate for us to reduce the obligations of parents. But here is the question of equal accessibility of this service. This is because in all environments all parents of the sky are able to include children in kindergartens and will therefore have to continue to seek out the guardian of preschool children, which is not subsidised and for which the state does not contribute as it is meant to in kindergarten education, either in public kindergarten or in private kindergarten, and probably as a result also in the private care of children. The inequality is increasing, not diminishing. Accessibility is not the same. And if the Director of the Directorate for Kindergarten and Primary Schools explained in a public interview how to find out by crossing the data where there are vacancies in primary schools and there is too much interest in kindergartens and there is a quick way to find a place for children who should go to kindergarten and that this can be done with adaptations. This takes time and requires additional funds. And with an increased population, there's more to it than there is to it now. It's a lot of fire-extinguishing. These are calculations that may still be held in some elements at the level of accounting operations, but they have nothing in common with quality solutions and systemic solutions to preschool education. There remains a large array of unexplained issues regarding the regulation of pre-school education and it remains very clear that the quality, the standard of pre-school education is being reduced by such measures. Thus, that first objective, or second, will not be realized, is enshrined in the objectives of the bill in order to ensure quality pre-school education. The ten-year studies, which so far have either monitored or identified the quality of preschool education, have shown relatively high quality. And if so far individual forms, the proposer says that different forms of preschool education should be released, and that he has in particular the guardianship mentioned in the round. That's not preschool education, sorry. And that's the right thing to say. You replace preschool education with protection. And I think, with everything that's been said, it would be good to withdraw some things and come up with proposals that wouldn't change the decision from week to week, not to say, from day to day. I'm not saying there's been no minor improvement. As far as Article 9 is concerned, the amendments adopted on the committee reached or resolved have been accompanied by at least some major weaknesses. But the fundamental problem remains. This is not a systemic solution to ensure quality preschool education, so with the proposal to delete this article, if you support this deletion, we allow the possibility that, until the third reading, the text of Article 9 will be corrected in such a way as to improve further and that, if the intention of the applicants remains to be included in the Preschool Children's Law, the Ombudsman will be included in the Kindergarten Act, but it seems to insist that he will still think about and possibly address some weaknesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that in my view the changes to this law will certainly be achieved by the celia and the purpose of the proposal, and I do not see any fear here that all these good intentions and objectives will not be achieved. In order for these changes to go in the opposite direction, there is no way that I can understand this or, at least so I will say, I do not understand this law. As for article 9, I must say that I am personally very happy that the law brings the guardian of preschool children. I think this thing is going to be a big help to a lot of parents, not just those who don't put their kids in kindergarten. I am even sure that this institute will be able to benefit and will be exploited by parents who will have children in kindergartens. Mrs. Potrata wondered, "Why don't they have a prescribed working time?" It seems perfectly logical to me that this is not prescribed. In fact, I see this matter so that if the parents decide to go to the opera, theatre or a visit that they cannot take with them, they can also take advantage of this preschool children's institution and thus provide protection. It will also provide protection at home. I had three daughters myself in exactly two years apart. Back then, there was a very big rush on kindergarten. I didn't have the chance to put a child in kindergarten, but I had the opportunity to put the child in family care, which was also done through kindergarten. And for this very positive and good experience, it seems to me that it would be right for parents to have the opportunity to get it back. I see this mainly for village settlements, for settlements that are not close to major cities where kindergartens, where parents would certainly decide if someone decided to have family protection in the village in order to include children in such protection. I think it's a really good and positive thing. If I return to this Article 9 and the amendments to this Article. I must say that I am most committed to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, where only the upper limit is set, 6 children, even though I myself might not be restricting here too. Otherwise, there is one argument that there must be appropriate conditions, spatial conditions so that more children can be protected. I will only make a joke about the case if Mrs Kresalova decided to exercise such protection, then the spatial conditions would certainly not be an obstacle. If I go back a little more generally to the law, I would like to say in particular that I miss the law that it did not bring about any measures to remedy the abuse that is taking place in paying for kindergartens. During the last meeting of the congregation council, we talked a lot, and at the meeting we also increased the price of kindergartens. Every adoption of the new prices of kindergartens in the municipal world gives rise to the word and debate on the abuse of kindergartens when people represent themselves as single parents, and everyone knows that normal families with a man, a woman and a child are living together, that they are in a common household, even though they are officially living at different addresses, and that they are taking advantage of all of these, I will not say the privilege because they are not privileged, but are unjustifiablely exploiting these benefits that a single parent, single parent family would have. I think there's something that needs to be done here. If this is resolved, I am sure that both the state and the congregations will need less money for kindergartens. It was also interesting on the municipal council when the Liberal Democracy proposed that the municipality of Šostanj introduce a free kindergarten for the citizens of Šostanja. Regarding the presentation of Mr Rezman's opinion, I must say that I agree that it is wrong for Slovenia to have such differences in price between individual kindergartens, I will say, incredible differences. I think it should come to, I don't say, unification, but these differences should be reduced. I will only end with the fact that I am confident that the proposed changes will lead to people making easier and more decisions about including a child in kindergarten. That this law will result in greater involvement, especially by burdening parents, especially those who will have two or more children in kindergartens, and a number of other benefits will certainly contribute to helping parents to provide both protection and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I thought we were only discussing amendments to open article 9, but obviously we have a general discussion in the context of the second reading. Nevertheless, some of you are honestly kicking past, past, and beyond the expertise, knowledge, and interpretation of this area. If I focus only on Article 9, I ask you whether this guardian is meant as an alternative to kindergartens or as a complement to kindergartens. If it is a complement to kindergartens, then this should be recorded in the framework of Article 9. As it is written now, it is read as an alternative to kindergartens, which is bad. Which is bad because it is clearly and loudly recorded under Article 9 only and only protection, without education. And let me read what these minimum standards are for a person, a natural person, who will carry out an activity under the Company Act, writes: "The Company Act regulates the activities of the Ombudsman of preschool children." Great, but it says, the only condition: "The cook of preschool children can protect children in the apartments of one or more residential buildings, which is built in accordance with the minimum technical conditions for the construction of residential buildings and apartments and is granted a valid permit in accordance with the building regulations or in premises which meet the conditions laid down for kindergartens." There are no other conditions, respectable colleagues and colleagues, no other conditions. Gardening, public kindergarten, private kindergarten must have a professional curriculum. [[The ad from the bench.]] It's not a kindergarten, no. This is within the framework of the Law on Kindergartens, the Guardians of Preschool Children, this is the legalization of what is now being done in black. Do I get it right? It is thus recorded in the framework of Article 9. On the other hand, you say in last year's analysis how important it is to include children in kindergartens because of socialization, because of emotional, personal growth, so that children can also be better integrated into school later. But under Article 9, you introduce or even favor the guardian of preschool children. I've heard of those parents who won't make up their minds, and they won't include the baby in kindergarten, and those parents are meant for the preschool baby-sitter's institute. I'll say the so-called baby-sitter system is being introduced by this law. Without any control or control, any educational concepts will be taken into account in the protection of children, one, two, three, four, five or six children who may be protected by one person, a natural person, on the basis of the Company Act. This is a completely unthinkable move. I believe they're different opinions, Comrade Bajc, I believe. But the opinions of the profession oppose such unimaginable solutions within the framework of the law, that is an option, yes, that is an option, but an option that favors those parents who will not include their children in kindergarten, that is what you yourself said, colleague Koren. The decision will be made by the parents, yes, but on the other hand is the desire and desire of the Government and I believe that even the whole society, that as many children as possible are involved in a quality system, a quality system of preschool education, because this is a good travel for theirs, I will say, a psychosocial development, because this will benefit them as much as the professional system of preschool education will be structured and good, because it will benefit them in their integration into later forms of socialisation, including primary school. There is neither a standard nor a standard of healthy nutrition for the guardian of preschool children, nor anything under Article 9. This is a bad solution, in the long run, and can have bad consequences, as well as shorter forms. Please, Mr. President, warn me because I'm disturbed. Mr. Koren keeps jumping into my word. I believe it's a different opinion, which he showed. But let me also express my opinion and conviction, which is largely based on what she also warned the profession: bad, unimaginable solutions, for children. Who will be able to protect and raise children in the framework of preschool education? Who can be so-called baby sitter, the guardian of preschool kids? Actually, anyone who decides to do so. Once again, without any standards or without any control. That's, uh, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, bad. I will therefore support the amendments that speak in favour of either deleting the article in full and thus adding the possibility or allowing the text of the article in the form or in the third procedure, if you wish to include the guardians of children's rights, as an additional activity, not an alternative, a supplement to that being written down.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I'm opening a second-round application. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. We're at Article 9, the guardian of the children. I think this article is the most resourceful, most innovative. It's easy to finance if you have money, but you need to look at the reality of what's going on. Where do the children look after their parents who are in the afternoon at work who do not get a place in kindergarten on Sunday at work on Saturday? This is a service, an alternative or whatever you want, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš. You need someone to protect your child when you go somewhere when you don't have protection when you're at work. And unfortunately, kindergartens are inflexible, inflexible, and work in the countryside only until 3:00 p.m., 4:00 p.m., do not work on Saturdays, Sundays when parents work. They don't accept a child who has a fever and so on. And many times parents can’t get sick and things like that. That is why in New Slovenia we welcome this article of the Ombudsman and certainly will not support the amendments of the Social Democrats and Really to delete this institution. But as far as the guardian can protect them, I don't care about either the LDS or the amendment of the coalition. I think some guardian is able to protect them more than eight, and none. Just like women in this world are made. Therefore, to prescribe how many children a person can protect, especially because in New Slovenia we imagine a guardian who will go, let's say a home to protect a child who is sick, or when parents are home, and he can't protect six, eight children at the same time. And if he is an entrepreneur, he will also be able to hire, say, educators, educators, and one will protect them at home, one at a different home, the third, I don't know which location and therefore re-cash something and create some standards just to destroy this institution. You know what, Mrs. Potter, you say you can't believe it. Gardens were created because mothers went to work. Not to devour all the knowledge of this world in kindergarten. And above all, it is important to ensure that they are protected in a qualitative way and that they are raised. I imagine the guardian will raise them, too. I don't think he's gonna let them crash around the house. I don't know what they're doing. It will adapt to the upbringing and protection of their age, their children. And where they give their children protection depends on their parents. I don't suppose we're going to have to prescribe that parents have to go to a private, public-private kindergarten or whatever I know where or to the guardian. This is, after all, a free choice of parents and guardians will be taken into account also because there is not enough space, there are not enough kindergartens all over Slovenia. They're gone. Even now they're gone and they won't be, probably by autumn enough space. And as I said before, it's also because kindergartens aren't adapted to parents' working hours. I'll decide for myself between the LDS or the amendment of the coalition. But it's not really in the numbers, it's in the fact that we're even allowing the baby-sitter to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u37	Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport, welcome. I am pleased with Parliament's consideration of today's amendment to the Kindergarten Act. First of all, I'd like to point out three things. I am pleased to note that the law releases forms of pre-school education that have not yet taken place in practice. This increases the accessibility of preschool education. Then, I am pleased that the law makes financial burdens on families with multiple children involved in kindergarten and that more transparent funding for kindergartens is being introduced by municipalities and increases the review of municipalities of founders over the financial operations of kindergartens. And now to the four amendments that have been tabled in Article 9 of the Law Amendment, or more specifically, to the amended bill. When I analyzed them - among other things, as the coalition's parliamentary group, we are also cosigners of the fourth amendment - and when I compare all four of them, I must immediately say that I will support the amendment of colleagues from the LDS. Why? Because the amendment in a simpler way defines a limit for the guardian than our, coalition, amendment. This needs to be made clear here, I speak for myself, of course, and above all this simplicity makes me, especially when we talk about kindergartens, so much more at heart. I find it difficult to accept such fighting and fiery debates today, when we do have children, families, parents and so on in mind. I don't think anyone deserves words like lies, deception and so on; a little more softness would be expected by a man at least in this law. And I'm surprised that the most fiery and combative are those who, after their childhood, may not have been in kindergarten. When it comes to the profession, I wonder if they may not be the parents of the profession. Aren't they? I don't know, so much for some class with big probies, but it's all kind of past my parents. Here in this place I have to "defend" my wife and mother of three children, who have been rearing and looking after their children in black, and that's three. [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] , including mine, of course, and without a kuriculum, you know, black. Please don't make me sad. Of course she didn't get it, and I didn't expect any "fick" from the congregation or the state, God forbid, nor did her working hours run out. But I learned something from this, and I put it all on my parents' heart, if they only have the opportunity, unfortunately, not all of them have the possibility of living with one salary, that's the best investment, you know, in my opinion. The best. And surprisingly, none of my children are overly asocial. They are all quite well integrated into Slovenian society. But something in this place, because it really hurts me, I'm going to ask the Ministry's representatives, because I'm going to attach the documentation. In the past week, I have encountered a case: the family has four children, unfortunately the oldest will always be on a wheelchair, the municipality is small, less than 20 children are in kindergarten, and now they have calculated, for these children, the municipality, more precisely - the mayor calculated that they have to pay the highest price, requiring the official owner to value the property, including those who serve for the economic activity carried out by this parent as a sole entrepreneur. Unheard of. I could say perhaps, or almost certainly because this parent and mayor are not on the same political shoulders, but on a few different ones, which are possible and acceptable in Slovenia. Here, I really need to ask you publicly to help me solve this problem because it is unacceptable. I could not believe that this was happening in the third millennium in Slovenia. As a matter of fact, I'm concluding. I will support the LDS amendment to Article 9. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. I'm going to start by saying that I'm going to support the third amendment of the coalition, but this fourth doesn't bother me at all, because it's even more liberal. I think the deletion of this article would have done a great deal of damage. And this harm is purely to all those who are in this process, and most certainly to those who are at the heart of this law, these are children. The kids are in the center, but everything else is kind of the emergency pendant that just has to be there so the system can work. But obviously we talk about everything else in this marriage, just not the kids. If someone thinks that they are not children in the center of this article, of course parents, he is wrong. Then I must tell you that we are probably not at the same wavelength, we are not talking about the same things and we are not thinking about the same goal. This is, to improve the conditions for the care and training of children. Granted, there may be a little more emphasis on protection, a little less on education, but one without the other is not going anyway. In particular, I will explain a little, i.e. this article, and the law in general, tries, among other things, not the only one, so that there will be no misunderstanding, to legalise the situation in this area. The situation is such that we have protection in black, and thank God that we have it, because otherwise this area would probably be significantly different, a significant number of problems would be, but so far no one has been able to say clearly that it exists, and to legalise matters. Now, for the first time, things are legalized, so things are handled in the most optimal way. That's a fact. You can't do that. On the other hand, it is also necessary to say that the matter of what works well, especially in the larger cities, is known exactly what telephone numbers are those to which you can call and get a guardian or a guardian, or a "baby-sitter", as was said today, for, I don't know, an hour, two, three, four, five or for the evening or whatever, depending on the needs. And why do we keep our eyes closed that it's not on the market? Let's legalize it! Let's get into some normal frameworks and stop pretending. Let's stop! And now look at the interesting findings we've come to today. It was said that this meant some kind of black market. On the contrary, this means the cessation of this black market and the legalisation of matters. On the other hand, that there are no prescribed standards that are not prescribed dietary standards. Now, let me ask you one question, given what we've heard before. As a parent, let's say my wife and I set up an appointment or we want to go on a matter tonight, visit or anything, and I call the guardian. But, look, if the standards were prescribed, a child for whom I would want a guardian lives in my house -- logically, if I was a parent -- but if the standards were prescribed that there should be, I don't know, so many square meters for that, so many square meters for that, what if my bathroom, which is in the block, is half a square meter too small? It is said that by this standard you simply could not afford a guardian because I have a little bit of a square, I don't know, but a child can live with me. On the other hand, you say it was said that there were no prescribed standards of diet. Yeah, I'm supposed to have food standards at my house if it's my baby. So, normally, most of the time can be spent with food the way parents can give it to him, but when you get a guardian, it should be according to some food standards. Yes, I beg you, where have you seen this before? That's not what you're saying. That's what I'm saying. Without everything being prescribed, some things cannot be prescribed because life points to something else, and this article speaks of that very life. Let's let life be that way, normally, not put it in some frame, not birocraticize it and make it impossible. This has happened too often to us, and thank God that this law has come, thank God that it legalises some matter, that it puts into some normal frame and takes these frames out of life, not from some bureaucrat offices where everything has to be prescribed. It is true that these frameworks must be, too, but in the area where this is possible in this field of protection referred to in Article 9, this is not possible. This is not possible because parents have their things arranged differently and work best for their children. So don't talk about how this means reducing standards. We've already found, even at this session, that if a midwife looks out for children, it's not a reduction of standards. Please tell me where you've seen this before and heard that you can say it. But of course, if we don't connect together, there can be such absurdities. That is why, of course, I support this law, the intention of this law, and also in this article 9, as I said, I will support the third amendment. If the fourth decision is also correct, although the opposition is even more liberal and a little less strict, despite the fact that you are saying that you would not support any one, because he is even more free. It's also variable. The less you prescribe some frameworks, the easier it will be for the children and the children are here at the heart of this law. Let us be aware of this: there is nothing more centered than children and, of course, parents. That's why I'm going to support the third amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! So, we have just heard that children should be at the center when we consider the content of this law. Of course, I can fully agree with this, but the question is how should our attention be centered. I'd like to remind you once again that we're talking about the Kindergarten Act, so the title of the law is the Kindergarten Act. However, the content we are talking about, Comrade Petan, is defined within the framework of the objectives and strategies how we will achieve these objectives. I'll read them so we can know what we're talking about, and if I ever miss the word "training" let me know. So the objectives are: reaching 90% of the participation rates of children of the second age period, ensuring the quality of pre-school education, the release of forms of pre-school education. So relax the forms of preschool education that are not now in practice and thus increase the accessibility of preschool education. Ensure comparable price conditions for preschool education, information accessibility and burden-sharing of families with payments for kindergartens with more than one child involved in kindergarten. The strategies introduced by this law to achieve these objectives are as follows: through normative changes to ensure the diversity and full realization of pre-school education forms, with an emphasis on co-financed inputs, to help improve the provision of spatial capacity, the establishment of information systems, to increase the awareness of parents and to address families with multiple pre-school children by paying for kindergarten. Once not in the objectives or in the strategy for achieving the objectives, it is not stated that we want to introduce only non-educational protection. I am reading the text of a bill that you have endorsed by the Ministry and the Government. I don't read anything else. And here's the question. Is it enough to protect children if we want them best during the first and second years? And today, when you talk about it here, the curriculum for these guardians is not prescribed. Yeah, it's not a kindergarten. And if we realize this fact, if it's not a kindergarten, then the question is, what's this provision going to be in the Kindergarten Act? This is a logical, cause-and-effect conclusion. If this isn't a kindergarten, then we're looking at some form that doesn't belong in the Kindergarten Act. Today, too, it was a very simple power here to conclude how we imagine the realization of this conclusion in our lives. Yeah, well, it's not just gonna be security, it's gonna be education. What kind of education is this going to be? This is now a question and we would like to draw attention to that now. You know, I know in practice different cases from around me. It would be very unfair here today to mock parents if they were in fact black guardians or black educators. Parents have a very important role to play and actually play throughout this period. All the time. Therefore, it is also very important that parents, when we trust their children, at a time when we do not just follow what is happening at this time because of them or because they are employed or whose other obligations we do not follow. And the question is: Is it enough for such a guardian to write down only two conditions, education at the level of secondary vocational education and impunity? Then here's the dilemma or this article is conceivable. But this article is pretentious! And then I ask myself: is this article linked to the objectives and strategies for achieving the objectives? That means, to open up other forms of preschool education, education. Here are the questions that need to be answered today if we are talking about a child in the center of our interest. Then it is absolutely necessary to get this answer. If we can say that this is the most resourceful article, I've already said the answer. This is an article so poorly conceived that it would not actually be possible to place it in this law. We're talking about who's gonna decide the number. Today it was said, yes, someone will have one, someone will have maybe six. Who decides? You tell me, who decides? Who? A parent, a guardian, someone from the outside, or it'll be a free choice. I am just talking about how different we think about the content of the text of this article. And of course all these questions will also be asked in practice. If you think your parents will be so qualified to value all these within the economic society of organised guardians, then the question arises of the naivety of a proposaler who does not really know what is happening in practice. On this basis, it is very easy to challenge the claims made by the coalition Members here today to increase the various forms of preschool education. This article does not, for it is not true, because there is no obligation of preschool education for this guardian. The text in this Article does not provide for this and it cannot be understood that certain ways, scope, content of the guardian's educational activities are prescribed. That's not true. And second, which is not true. You're burdening your parents' pay. I'd really like to hear that. As far as we're concerned, some of us are going to be free of pay in kindergarten, and you don't plan any subsidies here. You don't plan payments that go directly out of your parents' pockets. Of course, I have a clear thesis that this is not true, that it is also misleading that parental payments are being burdened. Tell me what! Where does the law state that the parent who puts the child in such a form of economic activity will be exempt from payment for the other child if, say, he has the first one in kindergarten? Where does it say that? I'd be happy if you could answer those questions. Therefore, I firmly believe that this article does not fall within the text of this Act, through the definitions of objectives and strategies for achieving the objectives. That there is this problem in reality, however, I am aware, and that is why we have tabled an amendment within the LDS to remind us that today many children are in the care, the protection of people in one way or another. That is why we wanted clear answers to all these dilemmas with the amendment, so that this article could clearly answer the question of whether we want the best for children, whether only non-educational protection for these children is really the best way to travel, how we as legislators will equip the conditions for them to integrate as successfully as possible into the continuation, the educational process and then into society. Because, in my opinion and my belief that such an approach will not achieve the objective, for the first time, of increasing participation in pre-school education and for the second time, we will not implement a capacity-building strategy in order to allow this increased involvement. And if not, we are expecting today from the proposaler, because today it has been heard by the coalition Members how different the text of this article is to be told explicitly to the Slovenian public, to all parents, to present and future, what will be the difference between protection and preschool education. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Comrade Bajc, I would be happy if, as you explain it, they would also say by the government that it's a kindergarten in the morning and this afternoon it's a security detail. [[...]] If this is so easy to imagine, then this argument is more how poorly this article is misconceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. From this debate, it is certainly possible to see that our opening statement in the presentation of the position of the LDS Club, that the law on the one hand is not harmonised, but at the same time has not been completed and that we have not received enough answers at the time of the debate, which means that the reduced procedure certainly was not the right choice to do so. See how we explain to each other in different ways the Institute of Preschool Children and I am also interested at this point in time in whether it is for the Ombudsman, as we have already heard, in the afternoon, in the evening when parents go to a cultural or other event, or whether it is a supplement to kindergartens, or whether it is every day 8 to 10 hours for those who have not put their children in kindergarten, i.e. an alternative to kindergartens. As far as the first one is concerned, then the matter is perfectly fine, as far as the second is concerned, as far as the child’s protection is concerned every day, all the time the parents are away, and then we can certainly find out that the guardian will not guarantee such a standard as the kindergartens provide. It's an undeniable fact. Remember, in kindergartens they are also provided with conditions of education. And beyond that, kindergartens have a prescribed space, i.e. such a large area for each child - for playing, children's playgrounds. After that, higher levels of staff are provided, infrastructure conditions are provided, including food for both the dining room and hygiene conditions and everything else. Needless to say, we've been through a lot so far. As far as this is concerned, once again, to complement, in terms of occasional afternoon security or evening care, either at the child's home or at the contractor's home, then I do not see the need to make the conditions more difficult and complicated, to prescribe and so on, as far as the alternative to kindergarten is concerned, yes, then it is certainly important that these two levels be aligned and reached at about the same level. I hope we can agree on that. And also, my friend Jozko Horvat, he's not here to hear me, I'm sure he was messing with the one who accused his wife of babysitting his three children or their three children, yes, because my parents were protecting me, and my grandmother was protecting me, very well, raising me, but, look, we shouldn't interfere, so I said he was joking. But, I stress, protecting your children and what someone does for money for someone else who doesn't need to know him at all doesn't have to be emotionally connected to him, that's the difference and that's what needs to be taken into account in this law. And this protection, because it has complemented that upbringing, protection and all other processes within the family, must by no means be mixed with it. That is why I would like to hear, above all, how the legislator had in mind the Ombudsman's Institute of Preschool Children, has this been complementary or is this an alternative? So whether it's afternoon activity, evening, occasional or daily. And given that the law is very broad: Why is it not more precise? If, for example, he wants to leave the door open for different interpretations so that he can do it in one way or another, we all know that later or later small kindergartens will be created, but that, as we have found, will not be in the proper sense of the word. And that goal 90% of the involvement of children in kindergartens, preschool education, we will not achieve this. In this way we legalise the existing state of affairs, the grey protection of children. But it is not bad to use this legalisation to make things not only do what is now done in black, but to improve. It's a shame we haven't taken this opportunity any more. It's a shame we're in such a hurry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u46	Hello again. First of all, I must say that I find it amazing how negative the opposition is able to find in a very positive marriage. They must have some special talent for this. Second thing. Several colleagues and colleagues talk about the guardian of children's rights. We're talking about the guardian of preschool children, not the guardian of children's rights. In the past, we had a number of obstacles so that more private kindergartens could be created. Even though we have declared everywhere that we have set aside such conditions, it has been very difficult to establish a private kindergarten, which, of course, causes the congregations to be those who have to provide these capacities. And the fact is, capacity is too low. This is also why we today face the fact that 30,000 children are in some form of private protection that we do not know much or know nothing about. But that's the situation. And one of my colleagues says we're doing fire action, like it's better now that we don't know where these 30,000 kids are. I think it isn't, and for many years we've been dealing with this problem and we're talking about it. Even those who guard their children want to settle their status. If not, then, all things may immediately show results, but they will be corrected and refined. Well, that's what we always do, but first, we need to bring things in so you can fix something. I don't know how many times I've said: That's true, but why do parents choose private protection? Because they don't get a daycare. Because capacity is not enough. And once again, it's not just local communities that have to build kindergartens. Therefore, the novel also allows and facilitates the establishment of kindergartens for private people. I was recently in Tunisia. There no kindergarten was built by the state, all built by private people and built further. In our country, however, we have sharpened this and set such standards that it is very difficult to establish a kindergarten. One of the colleagues also said that we favor the guardian. I don't see it that way, but I think we're trying to fix a thing that already exists and we don't know much about. How to grant a subsidy for such protection if we do not know how much parents pay for it, how much they pay for it. With so many people and so many people, I am sure that many want to regulate the status and will also apply, and we will only know how much parents really pay and how they pay. Because many times it happens that there is actually a grandmother who has three neighbors besides her two grandchildren, or close ones who have not received a kindergarten. For these children, then it was said that this was out of control, the guardian would act. What kind of control do we have now? But now we have less control or we have nothing to control. Only somewhere do we know that there and there one lady is babysitting and when you don't get a kindergarten, someone is telling you, "Go ask if they have room there." And the short-term programs that the colleague is dealing with are intended for these children, but they will still be able to spend some time in some, that is, with someone who is working in a kindergarten who is qualified to implement certain programs that maybe some grandmother I have already mentioned is not. And usually anyone who criticizes the bad and unthinkable suggestions prepares their own better. We haven't seen that either. Except to delete the article and let things continue as they are today. I also agree that the guardian may not belong to this law the most. But I will allow you to recall that we had a decade-long regulated area of scholarship in the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. I want to know how that goes with this marriage. We were only under this government last year, for the first time in Slovenia alone, we received a separate law, a law on scholarships. But perhaps to begin to solve the problem, it was entirely prudent to include it in the law mentioned. However, after the law and the rules on scholarships were in place, the need for this to be settled in a separate marriage proved to be true. We have tabled an amendment to Article 9. I will support the LDS' amendment, which I think is even better or simpler. But it seems a little funny to me that the LDS colleagues say that this does not belong in this law, and then I would expect them to propose, like SD and Really, that this article be deleted. Well, they made a different decision and proposed an amendment to this article and, as I say, I will support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Drofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I listened to some very critical words in this article about any changes to the Kindergarten Act, I would say that I almost cannot understand that any change in any regulation that just came about decades ago is completely on the edge of a knife. I must say that, in fact, any solution is sometimes offered is never accepted; but that is probably the normality of parliamentary life. The next thing that surprises me is the stiffness of the profession. And this is happening to us in a very large number of regulations that we are doing in Parliament, and let it be about lawyers, let it be about the medical profession, let it go, after all, about the pedagogical profession. In my case, I would try to say that I met with children’s kindergartens in 1995, when I became mayor of a small congregation. At that time, these were very, very large institutions, including up to 60 and more departments in the congregation territory, and smaller congregations, at least some, decided at the first stage to join primary schools. It was such a sin at the time that all the professions went to those congregations and those schools that allowed it at that time. Today, about 12 years later, this is actually a perfectly normal organizational form. I have even experienced that those consulting staff who then uncritically attacked us, that we had hoped to do so even excused us, because they found that those inanimate large institutions were not functioning well and that, above all, the kindergarten departments in those places where the small departments were in such an unenviable position - they were not equipped, even the teachers were not on the right level and so on. And since the congregation wanted to take this into its own hands and to develop it more quickly in these areas, we also received attacks, criticisms, and so forth. That's why I mentioned that this stiffness is extraordinary. In this article, I might agree with the criticism if we were to address the changing educational standards of teachers in children's kindergartens. However, because somehow, under the slogans, we deregulation or legalize what is happening on the ground in one way or another, that is to say, child care in families, that in some way we try to get it into the box, not least so that some taxes may be collected, if I say so, but that these people who are involved have some status, and on the other hand, that parents actually have a possibility. It is a question of whether we will be able to reach such a capacity of kindergartens very quickly that in fact all those who have needs will be able to include these children in kindergartens. I would say that we must nevertheless think that we are a society, that we are a country with the gross product we have, and in the context of this gross product we can only gradually afford to come in all environments, from Ljubljana, if I say so, to that, somewhere, let's say in Upper cough, that there can also be 90% involvement. "Running" to protect high school education, and this is about protecting children, protecting children, but I think it's a relatively difficult demagogy. After all, if I was joking about it, I would say that we could finally have this debate if we heard that six children could only have a mother who had a college education if we went in this way. So I would say that I actually don't think there's anything wrong or that it's to say that we're trying to legalise this situation and actually just one simple way to integrate it into, or legalize it. I would also say that if we were to lay down more stringently some hygienic technical conditions, we are again there to create some unrealistic system that would be financially unacceptable for 6 children, completely uneconomical, and in fact to prescribe something that would continue to be known that no one would be able to implement in the apartment anyway, in order to meet the very strict kindergarten standards that the kindergarten must decimate. And I'm going to say that I'm actually not going to agree with the SDS Group to draw the 9. I would agree, however, to simplify the issue that for all age groups there is a number, I think the LDS has proposed that the number of children in such a group should be the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So, I'm happy and I support the solution that's in the Kindergarten Act to allow the guardian at home. This is some kind of solution that we had in the past within the protective family in a slightly different way. At that time, although we did not know the public service, the protective family was only involved in some way in the public ministry. This raises the question: Why such an arrangement? Obviously, the applicant found that the existing, what is happening in the child protection market in private or in the family or whatever, is not at all at issue. Perhaps it is only disputed from the point of view of tax collection. Besides, I don't see any cases of abuse or anything like that. Therefore, there was no need for this form of protection to be put into the public service and the applicant is not. This is a complementary activity. You can see very clearly what she's like. However, there are some standards that are logical and purely sufficient for my concepts to carry out this activity registered and with the right degree, I will say, red tape, which is usually applied too widely in our systems. That this is a decline in the standard of teachers and guardians, and this has been said several times in the pathetic tone. Sorry, children, especially during the gentlest period of two, three, four years of age, do not need academic titles, i.e. people with academic titles, cold and similar. These children need acceptance, love, openness, emotional warmth. What, though, is noted in the analysis of entering primary school in children? That's right. Not a child's disability or anything like that. But in emotional cold. In this. And if you'll excuse me, I'll have something from my life. Not that my wife and I were raised, but it's good and so on. But we also had all three kids in kindergarten. And I'll tell you. The children preferred to go to a nanny who did not have an academic title. But she had a heart in the right place and because she had a heart in the right place she also knew exactly what to do and the children loved to walk and we understood each other. And that's actually one good dota, an inheritance that you can then carry on with you for a lifetime. Of course, I do not want to say that there is no need for knowledge, but in the most delicate period, this acceptance, emotional warmth, care, protection and the like is required. Fewer additions of knowledge and the like. The more a child grows up, the more he enters education, knowledge, and perhaps less into education. This is simply a teaching principle and a purely natural principle. If we raised standards on education, education, or what would we gain from these fundamentals? Not much. What would happen to us? Our costs would be substantially increased, and this is a problem of some activity, that education is raised not only to higher education, but even to the second or third stage, academic, research. In areas such as care and education, I believe that other knowledge is needed in particular, not research or similar. We can also quickly identify this high standard by comparing in other European countries what education is required for guardians, what education is required for educators and so on. In short, when I have reviewed these comparisons, I can find that the applicant has appropriately set up this arrangement. With regard to the LDS amendment; I know that you come from this very point of view, as small as a young child, let the smaller group be because a small child of Soviet socialisation cannot achieve well if the group is too large because it is confused, but the older the group can be. However, I do not think that this arrangement, which is in Law six, seven or eight, I do not know that I will not be wrong now, is nothing so wrong and so essential this amendment, but if you want it, if you seriously insist on it, it will not bother me personally if the maximum number of six children from this point of view is in order to provide them with this personal contact, in particular what children need. One more time to touch it either in public or in private. The principle of a regulatory policy or something private being done is only if it is found that it is not well done, that it is harmful. That's when it's actually supported, it's given a public character. In this case, there is no need for the Ombudsman, since the current activity also shows that it is not a stumbling block, it is not problematic, in particular according to the behaviour that we have a defined protective activity during the preschool period, which is defined as a public service and together forms a whole, complementary system. Well, I'm glad there's been such a solution. Other solutions to the other articles would not be open to me now, otherwise the chairman will warn me. The law is just right. It's modern. It suggests a solution. But let me tell you, maybe five years from now, eight years from now, it will be necessary, according to the knowledge, the teaching life that will change, maybe something will change, maybe it will have to be added or taken in terms of the guardian. But according to current behavior and study and analysis, that's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you. All the views of the Social Democrats Group at any time we discussed school legislation were based on the awareness that changes were necessary, but that changes must be professionally justified. That is why we also advocated the preparation of a new white book. So much at the expense of whether something changes or doesn't change. Again, the solution in Article 9 is inconceivable and, as it is now included in the law, it is illusory to think that it will eliminate what the vast majority of you think, namely, that it will remove protection in black. I would only touch on the warnings or moral teachings that some of us have received on the committee or now, how we should or should not discuss this law. The principles of parliamentaryism allow everyone to express their views. And I want to say it because I think in my work so far I've had to do with my teaching profession by trusting the teaching professions, so I'm defending positions that should be professionally justified. And I don't mind if the current coalition, with the majority it has, introduces solutions that are different from those for which it would stand, but then let it speak clearly and loudly. The debates we are listening to are so focused that I doubt that the goal is 90% of the inclusion of children in preschool education because of the bad hearing of organised preschool education. When individuals with their personal experiences want to get involved in systemic solutions, I have no problem with that, but if they take other people for the model, even such persons who are not in this House, I am disturbed, Mr Koren, and Mrs Kresalov’s guardian of preschool children, this was said for a special purpose and not so kind as to scatter this kindness a little on the right and left. Now to the amendment to Article 9 proposed by the Social Democrats for deletion. Once again, from what I have said, I can find out, however, that those who so advocate the guardian of preschool children are not consistent in their justification for the regulation of this area, because when you set cases you are talking about the occasional protection of children, which is now possible, that someone goes to the theatre in the evening and gets someone, this is what the services already allow. We are talking about the guardian of preschool children, who will have the status of independent entrepreneurs. Article 9, paragraph 4, clearly states: "a natural person may carry out a pre-school child protection activity." Such a natural person will be enrolled in the register by the Ministry of Education and Sport and will check only two moments with secondary education, with that additional qualification and impunity, that will be all that will have to be accomplished. I hope that no one will ever invent another condition that would be a special qualification and would be discriminatory in nature. What do I mean? For the experience I have on my own from this committee and in these discussions. But paragraph 4 says, "The registration of preschool children is subject to a decision." That's probably what the Minister for Education and Sport will give. The guardian of children shall carry out an activity in accordance with the law governing economic society. Now let's see how this is arranged. Who's an independent entrepreneur, an individual? The Company Act defines an individual independent entrepreneur as a natural person who carries out a self-employed activity on the market within the framework of an organised undertaking. We're talking about gainful activities. That's why all those comparisons are being declassified or that - let's say to me specifically, which solution I'm advocating, you're ascribed to me to prescribe college education for my parents or something like that. It's rude to attribute something like that. We are talking about the guardian of preschool children who will carry out activities in accordance with the rules of the independent entrepreneur as a gainful activity, so it is normal to meet certain conditions. And it says here what all such independent entrepreneurs must do: keep business books, pay taxes and other obligations, taxes on business income, social security contributions, other benefits, also have responsibilities and obligations, has the right to work, it is not known how this will proceed in this area, and then what all the registration in the business register requires, what the registration in the Business Register of Slovenia must indicate and so on. Who used to get upset about wanting to red tape things? You yourself have proposed a legal record that the activities of the guardian of preschool children are carried out in accordance with the Company Act. Well, look what the Law on Economics requires, so we can see who wants to red tape something. It is insane to think that the individuals who are doing this so far are going to be jerking off to the YPPES and reporting on their activities. It's crazy to think they're going to ask the Ministry of Education and Sport to register, these are additional obligations. And when you mock my warnings about hygiene standards, what do I think? If the babysitter has preschool children, you say you don't mind, if it's a group of eight kids, he's going to have an eight-year-old group. What happens when one of these children is sick? What happens when the guardian of preschool children is sick? How will the care of preschool children be provided? Or is it not that we need to provide quality and only protection if we have already lost our education somewhere else, that quality service needs to be taken care of, not public, because what we are talking about now is a profitable activity and there is something else going on under different conditions and parents will not be able to apply the advantages that children of four and five years old will have in kindergarten to pay for them in a progressive way, that is to say, in the future, for a further period of time. So, Mr Koren, when you talk about parental payments, from the point of view of parental payments will be those children who will be in an unequal position with those who will be included in the public network or in private kindergartens. So now what happens, Mrs. Jeraj, I don't know, it's good that you know. What is particularly open is the issue of avoiding local communities, and in particular avoiding the state to assume its share of the responsibility to cover the costs of the programme for the maximum number of children involved in pre-school education. I understand that the State is interested in introducing the Ombudsman of pre-school children, because it is debilitating, and the local community will be interested in this. And the availability of a kindergarten service, which some of your experiences say was unfavourable, because children were unable to participate in kindergarten, will not result in greater pressure on kindergartens, if local communities do not take care of it, in due time it will be no less so that those who do not come to kindergarten will have to seek protection from the guardian of preschool children and will have to pay full protection. This is why we intervened with the Social Democrats, after a thorough reflection and after a very intense debate on whether we would intervene so drastically in Article 9 and propose the deletion of this article, because we knew that we would be subject to a variety of previous interpretations, not to say insurrections about the position we have. Everything's not as good as you think. Look at the duality already in meeting the standards. You're saying the standards of some bathroom in the block aren't good enough. That's not true. You wrote that this is good enough, and it's not possible to talk about it, because the guardian can protect children in the apartment of one or more apartment buildings. Therefore, it is not required at all to be built in accordance with the minimum technical conditions for the construction of residential buildings and apartments. Minimum standards are required. So, I'd say it's rude to frame such things and illustrative cases so they can't handle criticism. You don't know what you wrote in the amendment. Because that was your amendment. And then you've got it written down: "...or in places that meet the conditions laid down for kindergartens." This is also said to be possible in the protection of preschool children under very different circumstances. What happens if these are places that meet the conditions laid down for kindergarten. It is likely that there will be more than one guardian of preschool children in such areas. I can assume that there will be several preschool children's guardians working there, and this will be some activity that will, yes, which is just a bypass, Mr Mag. A trifle to facilitate the conditions for acquiring this activity, which we call child protection. Because if you have already dropped standards, educational standards for short-term programs, where only secondary education is sufficient, it will be important, regardless of how many preschool teachers will perform in one area, that the group will not be more than eight children, as it is now written. We will see what the amendments will say and there will be some kind of unit that will be almost comparable to kindergarten, but there will be no need for any higher education educators to do so. And those who make fun of working hours when I talk about working hours, now the child is protected by being allowed to be in kindergarten for a maximum of 9 hours. The length of time the child will spend with the guardian of preschool children is not prescribed anywhere. It could be more, some of you even talked about it being in kindergarten this morning, and some of you were talking about it at the guardian's this afternoon. Well, for those of you who are very strong advocates of domestic, family education, it's not a good way to travel, if that's how you think these two forms can be complemented. I have a lot of concerns about the definition and regulation of this area, a lot of comments. Just as coalition Members and Members have discussed, they seem to have different ideas about what this article is actually dealing with. This article will also introduce very large associations that will not provide the programme provided or must be provided by a high-quality public service. This is essential to the compatibility of family and professional life with me as a social democrat. The government will also have to seriously consider whether it is serious when it comes to women’s high employment or when it is serious when it comes to the need to increase the educational level. In Europe, for example, it is the standard to increase the educational level of the operators of this activity for pre-school education. It is true, however, that in just a few laws in this mandate, we have experienced that the coalition Members and Members find something purely conditional if educational standards are lowered. Then this is another field that we should ask ourselves when the coalition is really serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u53	Thank you very much. This makes the second round of applications exhausted. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 9? I'm opening the application. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much. With regard to standards, with regard to the definition of how large or should housing be appropriate, what dimensions and how to proceed, the question is, of course, raised. However, in my opinion, it is in fact necessary to base itself on existing practice. In this case, when the government regulates something that is actually going on at the informal level, it has some experience where it can inquire. And to prescribe too wide, too harsh standards, I think we would actually suppress that true desire and desire to do business. The Company Act is a formal framework for legal personality. Otherwise, it is clearly demonstrated that the natural person is the one carrying out the activity to which it relates, the qualifications to which it should have and then the upgrading or upgrading of that standard. I would even like to say that, as far as technical standards are concerned, they should not be defined, as the practice has shown so far. Moreover, people have free choice, offer, and their own experience to warn them whether those to whom they drive a child who is given a child for protection are worthy of their trust. In the first case of uncertainty or dissatisfaction, they will be able to choose someone else. Be that as it may, the food may not be suitable because the apartment is not arranged enough or otherwise. But in most cases, when parents were dissatisfied with this, the reason for this physical person or guardian’s activity was in this direct contact. It was crucial whether the child accepts this guardian or not. Everything happens here, actually. And that's why we need to take into account, in particular, what I mentioned earlier, what children need -- acceptance, warmth, love, security. And that's actually where we come from, from a child. A few debaters before me have given me this very experience. Why are we doing this? In order to provide the child with the same protection. I know some parents who took a child out of kindergarten because there have been certain reactions in a child, in a large group of children with so-called symptomatic diseases. And then they provided protection in an individual family, where there is no such thing, and this symptomatic disease, either angina or something like that, which has been constantly occurring, stops immediately, stops when we place the child in such a form of protection. This is not only because people did not receive a kindergarten, a public protection program, but also because they had not had a family, an old mother, or something like that. This symptom has disappeared for these reasons - a small group, individually. Age increases the needs for a larger group, after socialisation in a different way. As age rises, criteria and emphasis are also significantly different. There will be no misunderstanding that I object to people with academic titles performing this activity. Nothing's wrong. And they can also feel that way. Exactly. But there are also certain experts who have repeatedly pointed out that those who focus on academic education then also expect in their lives, in their professional lives, to pursue their profession with these tools, where, in fact, this process of learning, education, the provision of materials, and on the basis of this, also an appropriate pedagogic. But that other dimensions, emotional, human, are somewhat behind this approach, but not because these people would not have in their hearts, in their souls these elements, this emotion that they can pass on. That is why some of the experiences of parents, my colleagues, with the guardians in the public protection institution are very beneficial, not all of them. Absolutely. And that's why it needs to be a choice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Vice President. Today we face arguments in the content of this law and in particular in the context of the introduction of the Ombudsman of preschool children. That's how we listen to different arguments. Of course, I cannot agree with those debaters who use discredit instead of arguments. And I think that, Comrade Koren, your comparison and placement of the LDS President, Mrs Kresalov, in your debate is following this, and at least it has been very unfair in my opinion and has no intention of contributing to the substantive debate that we are talking about here today. I will not go back that way because I feel that the debate itself of the one who is discussing it is telling everything about him. Second of all, because I'd like to say it. Today's message would be incorrect, and I think that, Comrade Drobnik, in your second performance, you have substantially corrected your thinking in the first part when you were talking about that we could have people with a heart in our guardians, and that this could be the reason that parents would put their children in kindergarten instead of taking care of these guardians. I think it is necessary to tell all educators, assistant educators, all those working in kindergartens, and also from my own experience, although it also seems very unfair to me that in any part, any debater is doubting the debate of any of us who have different experiences in this area. Very incorrect. And it also seems incorrect to me that we can speak so casually that the guards will show their heart, while those who are doing this very important work today in kindergartens that the content of the work is so occupied that it is not possible for them to detect this signal. I think that, Comrade Petty Officer, you've made a lot of adjustments in the second part, this thinking of you, and I think it's worth warning again. Again, we need to be alerted through what has already been said during the consideration of this law to make it feel that our education has been valued differently. Today, too, this debate shows that some think that education is not necessary during certain periods and that only protection will be sufficient. We're just different here and we're trying to prove with arguments that in practice there's going to be a series of operational and substantive, professional questions about how this is going to live in practice. I cannot agree with the fact that the Ombudsman must be introduced first, and then we will consider subsidies. No, there can't be a solution that you bring into one piece today, and then we'll see how it works and then we'll make it possible. If we have decided to bring the guardian in, then the solution must be taken to the end. Right here we are saying that the matter is not considered, that it is introduced by this article, but that there are still many questions. I would really like to remind you again, in the goals we want to follow the greater involvement of children in pre-school education. That's the first goal. The second objective is the quality of pre-school education and the third in order to help build capacity through more intensive co-financing so that this inclusion and quality can be achieved. And if that is what we really want, then today we should have an assessment of why some parents do not include their children in preschool education. And if we had these clear reasons, we could also pursue such goals and strategies to achieve these objectives. In my opinion, preschool children's guardians are not either meeting the objectives or not this strategy and are actually going in a different direction. If we want to talk about quality, and today we have heard that some Members imagine that some education here will only be, in what way can we then talk about quality, if we don't even know today the answer to what extent this education under these safeguards, that is, the guardians of preschool children, will take place. And here are these fundamental questions that are against us introducing this institution of the Ombudsman of preschool children in such an easy way as a form organised within the framework of economic legislation by economic societies. Are we going to establish competition here on a security account that will not include an element of education? If we are talking about companies, then we are talking about the market and we are talking about competitiveness. Education here will not be criteria for competitiveness. What a view the proposer has. And here are your awareness concerns. Once again, in the Liberal Democracy, we have proposed an amendment that does not delete this article, bearing in mind that this is a real problem. We are aware that this is a real problem. But the ad hoc solution that you bring, that you have brought ad hoc, speaks when in the definition of goals you do not have this written down, that you want to introduce transparency, that you want to help these people who are already doing it today, that you want to go to them, say, with professional suggestions, how to do it and so on. And in any way to help parents not be at a disadvantage now, given that without any help from the State, the congregations will be able to pay for the protection of their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you. We have been mentioned several times in the coalition, what we think in particular about the guardian. I'm sure the guardian is an emergency exit, an alternative can also be a kindergarten, a service such as various old moms, neighbors, friends who are already protecting. And we have found that many children are protected in this way and that there are also needs for this, and I am certainly not sure that this will be competition for kindergartens. Not financially, not possibly qualitatively. Financially it will not be, because for this contribution, which is now paid on average by parents, 20%, let's say, what I know, 50 euros on average for the protection of children, for this value no guardian will protect one month of the child. I'm also sure that's why the kids aren't gonna be in kindergarten this morning and the babysitter's this afternoon. I am also convinced that kindergartens are not established because some parents think that they will replace their education, that they are free and carefree. Education and protection is the first time on the shoulders of parents, and I am also convinced, or with this purpose in New Slovenia, that we do not support free kindergarten in order to serve those who do not need it, who would take advantage of it, who would also act recklessly to bring a child, or once a week, to say twice a month, because some are already forgiven or are very small. I think first of all that kindergartens are intended for those parents who are employed and who need this protection. And I think that's why all those parents will also benefit the baby-sitter all those parents who really have needs, not because they get rid of the baby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u60	A respected choir! Today's debate is similar to that of her mother's working body. Regardless of the fact that we have slept since the meeting on the working body, I can see that we have not yet drawn close to our positions, that we are somehow on two shores. Some still see certain fears, certain fears, certain sceptics to private security, some may even be a little misleading, and some may want to show off from their own experiences in life. I do not support this proposed amendment to delete Article 24a, which defines the Ombudsman of preschool children. I think it is time for us to legalise this illegal private protection in Slovenia at last, because it is a gray market. I find it surprising - if I have the right data - that it is 32 000 children who are not involved in preschool education and that out of these 32 thousand are about 10,000 children who are actually protected in the grey market. But they're probably staying home with grandmas and stuff. It is said that 10,000 children, according to this data, are somewhere on some gray protection, and this law now virtually allows us to legalize it at last. Here I would disagree with my colleague Germic, who said that there is no written, private protection in order to do this. Indeed, it is not in the objectives, but did not say that paragraph 2 of the novel of this law says "objectives, principles and major solutions to the law". And that, on the other hand, it accurately states that the law follows a number of principles that also give rise to the main solutions of the law. "In accordance with the principle of pluralism and the principle of the right to choose, as already provided for by the kindergarten law, the proposed solutions release the conditions for other forms of preschool education [[Education and Protection Family, Private Educator]] which will enable greater involvement of children in organised forms of pre-school education." This is written on page 2 of this bill. But I will not read the basic law as defined there; but the basic law must also be read. This amendment of the Law lays down conditions that are realistic and realistic. This is just the first step to actually legalise this gray market. Of course, under conditions that are also enshrined in the novelty of the law. And in the new law, it is a condition that the Ombudsman has completed at least a secondary or general education programme, with additional professional qualifications or that he meets the conditions for a professional in the field of education and education. Well, it's not anyone. He's educated, he's literate, he's not anybody. Second condition. That he wasn't legally convicted. That he's morally clean. So he's not anyone - he has to be morally clean. In the third, the number of children who can be protected is limited. Not more than six. If we accept the first or second amendment that talks about it. So it's a limited number. To legalize and register. So it's legalized. And they also state sanctions when they lose this right or the possibility of private protection. Thus, it is clearly defined, which is not currently present in this grey market. Now he's protecting anyone. And who's going to control these guards was the question. Parents. It's the parents who will see how his child is. And they'll decide if they'll put him in this private security. Yeah, sure. Who's that?Oh, my God! Parents decide where to give their child. Either they put him in kindergarten or they put him in Grandma's house if he's got a grandmother, or he's retired, or he's got time, or he's got private security. They decide, no one else can decide - not the state, not this assembly. It's a broad matter, and it's a choice of parents. It's actually a choice. And I see an advantage in that. What if we let it go? That is to say that we are advocating that this is going on as it is now. It's a gray market. Gray security. There's 10,000 kids in there. That's the problem. And it needs to be legalized, brought to life. I'm a strong advocate, and I'm a supporter of the care and upbringing of children in kindergartens. But we need to set priorities. First time. It's up to the parents. Another time. What's the priority? If I had a chance, the first, second year, up to three years in grandmas would be safe, after three years in kindergarten, for the child to be socialized. And I now consider the guardian of children to be some kind of service when there is no other option and the parents actually make a deliberate decision or make a temporary decision about it. This is their decision, the fundamental right of parents. To tell from my own experience, because this has already been said today. One of my sons was in a manger, after one year and a half he got ear inflammation, he got the next chronic ear inflammation. The doctor recommended that we put him in private, otherwise he'll go deaf because he started bleeding out of his ears. He was in private custody for a year and a half and went back to kindergarten. This is such a temporary solution. Another case. I have a grandson who's not a year old and a granddaughter who's three years old. The granddaughter is protected by her grandmother, but the granddaughter is in kindergarten. But he's only one week in kindergarten because he's sick. Where should she go, or should Mommy take the hospital? That's the problem. And here's the problem. From a disease, from a variety of diseases, when a child simply cannot be in kindergarten and has to be in private care. And that's the main source. Second problem. The child completed one year in January, at the beginning of the year, and there is no room in kindergartens. Where is this child to go? Those who oppose private protection, tell them where to go by autumn. And the third problem of moms is that business-successful women want to get politically activated, be active, what's the problem of women not being able to have a chance, and have a child every 14 days, is that every 14 days they should take a hospital. I list cases with which temporary matters can also be resolved and permanently resolved. It was said that the quality with the guardians was increasing. What about the quality of those 10,000 kids? We just forget about it, we talk about it like we're opening up something new. From now on, however, it will begin or when the law is passed, with the private protection of children, with the protection of children. And we forget that 10,000 children are somewhere. We forget that, and we have to be alive, and we can't complicate things, let's be alive. I'm talking about what's in practice, what life shows. In fact, by lawing under the harsh conditions of the guardian of preschool children, this article solves these daily problems. Like, in a country where there's no kindergarten, where do they put the baby? These short-term diseases, the overcrowding of kindergartens, all these things will be solved. But it is the parents who will decide where to give the child, whether this private guardian has the conditions, or whether he meets them well, if he does not, he will take the child, they are the judges. So I don't support this amendment. I support both amendments that determine the number, one or the other. I believe that this article alleviates the problems of parents, whether in the short term or in the long term. The ultimate goal of the government, these coalitions, is that kindergartens will be free. And in this direction, we're doing these steps. And one of these objectives is to legalise private protection under strict conditions. This is the goal of the government and these coalitions, and nothing new is made up or enacted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. In the context of the second round of discussions, MEPs and Members also wanted the floor of the Minister. Minister, please. [[The ad in the hall.]] Excuse me! You have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My friend Ljublješek wanted to tell me that I was wrong. Then he repeated that I was wrong, with the same words as I was saying. I am talking about the fact that, in the law, neither with defined objectives nor with strategies to achieve these objectives nor on the basis of principles, there is nowhere to be seen that any form of protection is written in such a way that it does not include education. Comrade Ljublješek, you have tried to do this, that in different forms, if you choose, the law on the ground brings this. That's not true! Not in the goals, not in the strategies for achieving the goals and not in the principles you are talking about, on page 4. I'll read it again. It is about relaxation, for other forms of pre-school education, and explicitly mentions: the educational and protective family includes the word "educational and protective", the private educator, therefore, includes re-education, "which will allow for greater involvement of children in... forms of pre-school education." You can't say otherwise anywhere. And that's what I've been saying all the time that the guardian of preschool children falls into this law, and we don't follow the guardian's upbringing. This is the key dilemma I'm talking about. And you can't prove to me that this isn't the case and that I'm speaking out of line. That's all, Comrade Ljublješek. You, of course, wanted to get it on a different track in the proponent's defense and coalition, but, of course, the content of the text is dementing you and talking about me being right and not you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u63	Thank you very much. It's not possible to replicate the replica. You probably know this after three years in office. But there's a minister who's got the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate is about an amendment concerning the guardian of preschool children. I would just like to add to this that this matter, or this content, has been supplemented on request and on the recommendation of the Court of Auditors as well as on the recommendation of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. And most of these things that we are dealing with today have been adopted on the recommendation of such institutions and institutions and also coordinated in social dialogue. Before, you practically three spoke about the fact that this matter is not harmonised in social dialogue. Here I have signatures, see, for each article we have unlocked where we received the signatures of the union, the associations of principals, the community of kindergartens and later the associations of congregations and the community of congregations have joined in the amendment of the law or the support of this novel. But this is about the Ombudsman, not about some program, the preschool education program, but about that supplement to the protection of children, which has other dimensions, not just what you said. In particular, we are trying to legalise some field, some niche, which is pretty messy with us, about which some Members have already said not to repeat. It's not about preschool education, it's about child protection. And I think that in the debate the very good sense of this complement was explained. I would like all of us to understand together that this story is not a pre-election law, as mentioned by the honourable Member of Shirtz, but it is some news, urgent news that has also been proposed by the professional services, both the Court of Auditors and the relevant Commission for the supervision of public finances by the Ministry of Finance, as well as thoroughly predebated with the social partners. This is not about any law that should have any effect on the elections to be held this year. I think this is a kind of insult to all those who have put a lot of effort into preparing this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round to discuss. You have a replica, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u66	It was not my intention to offend, but to tell the truth when I spoke about the fact that we have been meeting in recent months with laws that are very attractive, citizens and all of us welcome, but leave solutions, burdens and bills to future governments. Of course, you have an alibi when you say, "We can't, now that the 2008 and 2009 budget has already been adopted, interfere with such beautiful promises in these laws." You have a chance to make a balance, but you can interfere. But where have you been for three years now that you suddenly remember that, say, students don't have a warm child, even though in the first years of your government, you've always denied that this is a problem when our arguments were on the table. But no. This moment in spring, or now early in 2008, is a problem. And issue a law that will only enter into force in 2010, 2011. It's the same here. Gardens, pardons, which began to give you discounts first for those families that have multiple children at the same time, and when you heard that these families are very few or such communities very few and such cases are very few, it is said to be 5 to 10% of all, and when in public it kind of bursts the demand even for and when other coalition parties of yours have said so themselves, we will give a little more, and there, and there, and there, and there, then you would come with some solution. But beautifully, of course, we do not oppose, but such quick solutions, which have no analytical implications and even professional analyses, we cannot understand them differently than those like solutions that you confront voters just before the elections, and you are putting an account into the future - when you, when someone else, when the situation in this country is unclear, and perhaps even when there is some more analytical and more deliberate solution on the table. And then it may be necessary to amend the law, perhaps to find a fuller and even better payment solution. But don't deny it's some kind of like and also demagogic moves that came at the right time and on the right account.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much. And I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go. Three Members shall be included in the debate. The first is Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Minister, I believe you were embarrassed when some of your client spoke about matters that had virtually nothing to do with the content of this law and that you have not finally demented yourself. But then the problem is that your Members don't know what this law brings. My friend Ljublješek, I'm sorry, but you've been comparing the baby-sitter with your grandmothers all along. Will we have after this law s.p. Grandma? Do you know what it means to work on the basis of the law on businesses for grandmothers? Don't joke! You were talking about grandmas - 10,000 kids were supposed to be in a gray square. What is this other than ignorance or valuable populism, respected colleagues and colleagues? I can't imagine, really not if there is a problem of sick children in kindergartens, or, therefore, your guardian, who has six children at home, the guardian of S.P., the midwife of S.P., can hold six sick children? I can't imagine. But that's what you were saying. It's ignorance or valuable populism. As far as alternative or supplementation is concerned. The minister said that the guardian of preschool children means a supplement. Mrs. Uhanova said that the guardian of preschool children was an alternative to kindergartens. An alternative to kindergarten, which means less quality. Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues. No standards are laid down under Article 9 for the guardian of preschool children. It doesn't matter who raises and looks after children. It doesn't matter. It is important to say that we will legalize the work that you think is going on in black today, even though the child is being watched by the midwives, even though the child is being watched by the family members. But it's a black job and we'll legalize it by hiring grandmas. by the law on companies. What about healthy diet? I have no idea. A month ago, you made a big deal out of it that it was necessary for students to have a healthy diet in high school. No standard is prescribed for children who will be cared for by their guardians, midwives. Doesn't matter, kids are like test rabbits. If there's no O in one of the guards. K., parents will move them to another guardian if they choose to do so. And that's how they're gonna test it, even though it's the state that's legislating the baby-sitter. Although it is the country which should also take care of minimum standards, at least minimal, I say, and control over the performance of a service which it prescribes. That's the problem, that's the problem, and that's what we're trying to tell you. We've been working for more than three hours, and there's been a talk on this on the parent board. Free choice, yes, children need protection, but not by testing whether it's good or not good for them. If a country prescribes, it must provide first and foremost protection to children. As has already been said, the solution that is proposed is incomplete, let's leave time, let's leave time until the third reading, let's think about it, and let's finish the solution. Therefore, I ask you once again to support at least one of the proposed amendments, not to speak up, not to sell cheap, I will say, if you want, the proposed content that actually has nothing to do with some professional analysis, and even less have something to do with some long-term strategy that the Government could have in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Comrade Ljublješek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My colleague Tavš Žgynereva probably didn't listen to me very well, but she only pulled certain things out, which is fine with her. I said that the basic purpose is to legalise the grey market for private protection, that this is the basic purpose and that these children, according to the data I have, are about 10,000 out of 32,000 children who are not in kindergartens. And I was talking about that the other 22,000 are probably in home security. This is what I've been talking about, and I'm focusing on those 10,000 who are on the gray market, to legalize it, to set conditions for these guardians, and these conditions are written down very well and sharply, you have to read several times to understand. And I was talking about that private security is some service that parents use when there's no other option, or they decide for a longer time. That's what I'm talking about. And I also talked about where there are no kindergartens in the countryside, so that this private protection can be saved from the protection of these children. That's what I'm talking about. Let's be lifelike, let's not be theoretical, let's not involve some professions all the time. I also listened to a professional who supported it. And I'm always talking about the profession never getting unified. And it's only right that he doesn't agree that he's always confronting himself. And the solutions in this novel support the profession. Your profession probably isn't. That's what I'm talking about. This problem needs to be looked at in life, not theoretically, and I don't know how highly professional it is. It's a life problem that parents have.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I suppose it would be better if the profession weren't "your" and "our" profession, but to be an expert on politics. We continue the debate. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary with the co-workers! For the introduction, let me comment on a call from one of the colleagues who said, "You're crazy." She probably thought we were crazy about the content of article 9 of the law under consideration. And I'm sure my late mother wasn't crazy because five of us were born who raised us, who successfully protected us, with primary school education, in a rental house that had only two rooms. I am talking about criteria that are substantially different from those defined in Article 9. Now to the content of this Article and the amendments to this Article. In my opinion, it is wrong to assume that at least two colleagues, if not three, were defending and justifying the injustice of this article, that kindergartens were established to raise and protect. Yeah, that's why, but not just that. I think it's a basic task, under the terms, for parents to raise, but kindergartens can help raise and protect. Parents also come into a situation where they need something else or do not need that content called education and protection, but they need only protection. And the solution - here perhaps I would read again, because we are talking about everything else, at least some. Article 9 already in the first sentence of paragraph 1 states: "A natural person may carry out a pre-school child protection activity which does not include the implementation of an existing programme." Yes, but we know who is implementing the programmes - the programmes are carried out by the public kindergartens set up to implement these programmes. However, this provision, which speaks of protection, is in fact where parents, or as some colleagues have said, do not have the opportunity to include a child in a child-protection organisation that also implements this public education and education programme, but need either occasionally or throughout the day, in particular, in the afternoon of the rural mother, when working in factories, in dual-use or even some, unfortunately, even today, in the third millennium, in the tri-change work when they need some protection of their child. His mother will protect him and raise him in the morning, and he must give this child somewhere this afternoon. However, we do not all have or have grandparents who are retired and who are able to provide protection and help their parents with their upbringing. And that's why I think that's the way to find a solution for parents like that, for cases like this. I think my colleague Ljubeljšek said that these are likely, although I do not have these numbers; that such children are 10,000. Even if there are only 5 of them, and if this is how we are going to handle things, thank God we can arrange them and legalize what is already on the gray market. But I don't understand that kind of opposition front. I know, or else my children don't, but the children of my friends who take one year off who provide such a service in London for one year. So-called, I think some have used the term "baby-sitter." And to ask someone to change my grandson's clothes, to get him a fresh dress that my son or my daughter brought there and juice, and some recipe, let's just say that he drinks that kind of tea because he has celliacs, let's say, he can't have starch. That's what I'm going to say to where I'm going to bring my grandson or my child's son. And to demand now that he change his diapers, that he give him what his parents told him to give him, that he has a curriculum and I don't know what kind of education, I think it's enough criteria if he's protecting, not raising. The primary task of parents is to raise them. You demand he has higher or even higher education. Finally, minimum criteria for space. I used to say that Mom raised us and protected us in a tenant's house, which had only three living quarters, five children and another half-brother, who had unfortunately also died, and Dad and Mom were in a house like this. Therefore, to say that there are no criteria in this Article 9. There are more than enough criteria to protect. Now, because some people have stressed, and kindergartens, and I don't know what. Gardens are saved. Maybe for someone. However, I do not think that we all stressed the role of parents in the debate. And in this particular case. Parents will decide because they will know, I don't know, maybe if nothing else, because we said here in one provision that it's based on companies, it's a register. But you know, we don't need registers in villages because we know exactly which of the neighbors or the neighboring village has registered this activity. I have previously commented that Article 9 states that it may be registered under the Company Act for this activity and protection. And here, colleague Ljubeljšek, as you have just mentioned, has registered and the Minister has also mentioned that the initiatives were precisely for the reason that things are legalised, which already exist on the ground, to be put into some kind of legal basis. However, given that some colleagues and colleagues have said that it would be good to open this article and that we may also find a better solution than is currently stated in Article 9, I will support the first amendment to this article of the LDS Group, which says that this guardian can protect up to six children, because we are making it more complicated than it is in the fourth amendment that we have signed or co-signed by the members of the coalition's parliamentary groups, and thus, possibly, we will also give the possibility that some matter may also be rectified in this Article 9 and the powers of this guardian of children in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite the Ambassador Dusan Kumra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to be honest with you that I really didn't intend to call today. But I found the time and I sat here in the hall and I listened for two hours to this discussion and I don't have to bite my tongue and I have to say one thing and some things I have to say, because it was said at least in my opinion - I will talk about my views and not least about my experiences. I have such a group of children at home, as the proposed LDS amendment is talking about, that's six children. For 25 years I went to kindergarten in Ljubljana every morning, so believe that I have some experience, so I will try to say some things about it. I hope that the urgency and I must say that the discussion of the Coalition Members in particular was very colourful, different as to the understanding of this Article 9. And I hope and hope that the minister, and someone else in the ministry, shares with me the scepticism that I fear that the country's strategy will not somehow be rejected, this is the ministry to ensure that the vast majority or most of the children in Slovenia are able to spend preschool time in kindergarten. That this possibility exists that this alternative, as some have now said, which will come through Article 9, will have no effect on this legal dictatorship, resulting in no more investing in opening up new freedoms, not to mention it, but to make it an alternative. I hope not and that this is where the Minister said that he was going in some way towards the intention of the Court of Auditors, that the matter, and some of you were saying, legalizes, does a review. Although I must say that the bill itself, and also this article 9 itself, is at some point in total contradiction. On the one hand, there is a free kindergarten strategy, parents will not pay for education, and on the other hand we are opening up this alternative, where the burden is on parents. But that's your problem, and you clear it up. For me, this is a contradictory strategy, which is defined in this way. But now I'm going to what I've been trying to reach out to. This is in the protection of current institutions of protection. I do not tolerate and vigorously reject all negative things, and I do not say that practices and experiences can be different, but so negative about the work that has been done in the past of the institutions of education and protection and the people who work in these institutions, but I have not heard and vigorously rejected them. Everyone can have their own concrete experience, and now I'm going to tell mine, I said 25 years. There was no burden on me that my children were ill in kindergarten - but here I am - because they lived in larger groups and because they were in kindergarten, were not at grandma's or were not at home. I have never wondered about this and there was no great problem. But there's one other thing I'm going to remind you of. Today, when you ask, and those who have older children and were in kindergarten, ask them how they remember theirs, that I now use the word for back, comrades, but it was for guardians and for educators. The first three - year - olds will remember the nanny, but later they will remember only the tutors, even though every morning at kindergarten they received a baby-sitter. What does that mean? That all those who say that there is no need for education, even after article 9, in order for children to survive to school without this educational moment, you are deeply wrong about the welfare of the child. How important is this educational component that it receives through organised care in kindergarten. For me, "Baby-sittership" is no alternative to this institution of education and protection and simply cannot be. Those you are discussing in this way are discussing in a way that is a well-protected car in a garage. That's how you treat children. I drive over there and someone's guarding my car in this garage so the next day I'll still have the whole thing. But I'm not gonna wonder what's going on in another car. So I'm vigorously throwing these things away. I also reject what has been said, particularly by the Member of the Commission and the Member of the Commission, about this social and a social situation. I ask you kindly on which criteria, research and what else you can identify and claim that children who are at home with grandparents or parents are more social than those who are institutions of education. Please. Where did you read that? Where did you hear that? And I hope that at least the secretary of state or those involved will take the protection of all educators and guardians in the institutions of education, to raise social children in this society and to make every effort to do so. [[The ad in the hall.]] Please don't interrupt me because I followed the debate, and that's what was said. And I reject that, too. And in the end, what I said at the beginning, one more time. In some ways, I would like to have an answer as to how the Ministry or the Ministry views the contradiction of this strategy - that those who choose freely to be the guardian of the so-called guardian will, of course, have a full burden on themselves. On the other hand, this same law implies that in the future I do not know which month or years goes on to free protection in educational institutions. I think it's a strategy that has some contradictions. And if, then, in my opinion, if we leave the article open and we sharpen some of the criteria for this guardian, then in the future, this protection may also be possible if it has a moment of education, a educational programme, even a minimum, also from a country financed. And then we'll have this review that you're talking about wanting to have. You're operating on 10,000 and 22 thousand and so on. I don't know how many of these people are doing this in black, but some of you obviously have this data. Once again, I appeal to the Minister that the intentions of this law would not have resulted in the State and the municipality no longer investing in opening cities for children, because the strategy of this Government and future governments is to raise birthrates if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Minister shall be involved in the debate. Minister Beast, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, I just want to respond briefly to this dilemma that concerns you. As an institution, the guardian may not even be a part of the Kindergarten Act, but it is the only opportunity to regulate it, because he is touching it in one way or another. This means that the guardian as an institution has no or no substantive connection to the curriculum of preschool education. Therefore, there is no real alternative. Education and education in the field, but it's happening in kindergartens, there are clear programs, all day long, half-day, short-lived, even here you've mixed some things in the debate, but still. The Ombudsman simply means that for a certain period of time, parents can sometimes hire someone who even has a licence, a certificate that is otherwise registered for a shorter period of time to protect their children. That's all. But the Court of Auditors and other state authorities have warned us that there is a lot of gray market in this area and that this area needs to be regulated. I do not know why you associate this institution with preschool education, which is necessary and also the professional authorities have warned us that we need to settle this matter and regulate it in this kindergarten. You said, contradiction, free kindergarten, and now this payment. The goal is free, the goal of all of us together is perhaps free kindergartens or free kindergartens for parents is more proper, once in the future. But once the state is able to provide some good enough material material conditions, this goal will also be achievable. But now we are. We have to come from what we have. And so we made one gradual way to relieve parents from 10, 12 to 14, where they will only be half involved in the current burden. And this will ensure that parents in Slovenia are about as burdened financially, cost-effective as parents in other Western European countries, where preschool education is slightly better regulated. Here we are Slovenians, of course, we can say even better than the European average, but we have burdened our parents very much, especially for some social strata. So, who's in charge? Of course, they will be the first parental supervision, as well as a school and work inspection. Because if later it turns out that there is also a need to control such an activity, then the competent services will do so. But once again, I warn you not to mix things up. One is a private educator and educational society, regular forms, and then we have day-to-day security, half-day security, shorter programs, that's one thing. And the other is the guardian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round to report to the debate. Here you go. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I am very pleased that you have engaged in the debate, that you have in fact stated that we have the right Social Democrats when we believe that this article does not belong to law. But you didn't convince me with your explanation of "the guardian of preschool kids." As you explain it, it is not a business on its own with a permanent activity, but it is what it is already doing within the student service service, which ensures that someone can come occasionally to protect the child at the home of the parents of the child. And we're talking about the babysitter at home. He does so in his home or in his rented premises. So, Mr Minister, thank you for the experiment, but you did not answer very convincingly the question raised by my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Marika, I'm afraid I can't give you a word because you didn't report the time for the debate earlier. And I have to stick to the rules of procedure, because if I let you go, I'm going to have to let all the 90 Members go. So, unfortunately, the mistake was entirely yours. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, there's only one thing I'm interested in. It's not based on the law, because nowhere does what you've just said in your explanation come true. In order for the guardian to take part in temporary protection, since there are no restrictions in this article that this will not take place every day, all day long, so that the guardians of the children will not be protected, replaced by protections and preschool education in kindergartens. I would be happy if what you have just said in your explanation is indeed true, but unfortunately there are no levers in this law, there are no guarantees that will not happen all the time that we have warned that the guardians will essentially replace kindergartens and so there has been a debate, so there has also been a discussion of the MPs from the coalition, because, finally, my associate colleague Mitja also said that when the problems in kindergartens were children, the grandson put in protection and this one year and a half, I believe that for the whole day and this is the matter that we have been alerted to before, that it is not appropriate and now we can also hear different interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you very much. To my word, I invite Ambassador Joseph Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, again. I hope that my colleague Kumra did not misunderstand when he spoke who was capable and who was unable to raise and protect. I hope he didn't think here that the only kindergartens and schools are those who are capable of raising and protecting. I remember all-day schools and stuff, when we took the kids home at 6:00 in the morning, and we got them from school at night. So the role of his parents was just to dress him up in the morning and get him to sleep in the evening. I hope that such times will not repeat themselves with any justification. The second thing I would like to discuss is, I agree, my colleague Dušan had 6 children, he was in Ljubljana, and he could drive them to kindergarten with all of them every morning, and I will say in quotes, the privileges they have, but I know that the places are 20, 30 kilometers away from kindergartens and parents are also at work and would need occasionally, I will say, whether more permanent protection is available and they are willing to raise them themselves, and I don't think he's a parent who isn't ready to raise their children. And third, what I would like to say is, I repeat again, by no means, I personally believe that this provision of Article 9 and the content of this Article is no alternative to kindergartens, as it only speaks of child protection and does not include the implementation of a publicly valid programme. Once again, I will support and I think that our fellow Members of the SLS Group will also support one of the amendments and thus allow for the possible addition of the contents, perhaps also in the direction of this debate, which the Minister had before, when he said that this article probably does not fit, but at this point, because we are looking for a solution and it can also be comparable because kindergartens are not only raising, but also in the notes protecting at least the time that children are included in kindergarten that this solution is also possible, perhaps with minor corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you very much. But I call to the word the Member of Michael Prevac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, coworkers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When I first met or when we first faced this amendment of the law and, finally, this article, which we have been discussing for some time, seemed to me to be completely self-evident. Because this 9th article, what has already been said many times today, actually legalizes some existing situation. Therefore, already on the committee itself, where, of course, there was an incredible amount of interpretation around this article, it was not really clear to me, and even today for more than two hours, we are actually getting involved in this somehow. There's been a lot of talk about this, and it's hard to find anything else on your own. However, it might be possible to take back what my predecessor, Mr Bajc, has already said, and the Minister has also pointed out several times that this is not an alternative to existing kindergartens. It is clear when we talk about education, about kindergarten education, that this is something completely different from what this article defines when it speaks of this guardian. And there is no danger at all, and what my colleague Kumer has pointed out to me is that now the congregations will exploit it on the basis of this amendment of the law, and they will not try to get as many children into kindergarten as possible. Absolutely not. I am still sure, both the Ministry's intention and the community's intention to do everything possible to make as many children as possible, especially in the senior age group, to include them as much as possible in kindergartens. Of course, it can be as much involvement of children in kindergartens as possible to talk somewhere in the center, somewhere in Ljubljana, somewhere in the larger centres. It's harder on the periphery. Last but not least, if I look somewhere in my home, even myself, with the difference that I still drive them to kindergarten, it has been said for more than 20 years, and I have been extremely satisfied with kindergarten education. Of course, I didn't have any other options. But of course, I have this possibility that I am not too far away from kindergarten, and that is why we were able to carry this out. Our place, however, is well - known for the fact that villages are very scattered, scattered places, even 30 kilometers away from their first kindergarten, and, of course, such arrangements as this law provides for such parents are quite appropriate. It is therefore not clear to me that, at a time when the Government, the Ministry, offers an additional option, not an alternative, but in fact an arrangement of the existing situation, that it is necessary to raise so much dust and that there can be so many different interpretations under such a provision, so many different thoughts and not so much mistrust as we have actually heard in this Chamber today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I call to the floor the Member of Parliament, Mr Jerič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I myself agree with the explanation given by the Minister for Education and Sport by this article 9 or the guardian of children, but in the debate earlier, many other things were said. What I fear, if we are speaking specifically about this Article, is that this area, which is not regulated and should also be regulated on the basis of the Court's audit opinion, is being dealt with in the wrong way and not at the right time. What am I afraid of? When we begin to regulate this area, in a way the grey economy in this area of preschool education or the protection of children, I fear that those who do it well now, who are protecting the children of their friends, family and others, will not want to legalise it in this way, as you have written down in the law. And what will happen - there will be even more pressure on the public kindergarten network. I'm pretty sure that's gonna happen. What I'm afraid of is opening up this area and somehow introducing some private child protection, too quickly, I think we have a bad experience in the area of some other private protection. I'm afraid we're too quick to make decisions, too soon to bring solutions in this area to a path we don't all want together. What I fear, Minister, when I hear this debate, is that we are doing a system of preschool education and protection based on personal experience, based on the Court of Auditors' opinion and so on. I think he needs to tell the profession here how we're going to organize this area. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, we know that he is the highest custodian of budget spending. And the Court of Auditors, Mr Minister, has warned you that this area, which we have previously talked about, is not regulated and that it is necessary to arrange it in some way, but in particular you have been warned that parents in Slovenia pay an abnormally large contribution to the protection and upbringing of these children. Now, if I drop a little bit on my purely local territory. I believe that kindergarten has a short-term and long-term role in child development and education, and from the environment from which I come, I can assure you from the Hrastnik Congregation that we also demonstrate by action, especially with the money we spend on the protection and upbringing of preschool children. We give about 15% of the appropriate consumption for preschool education and care, 15%. 83% of children in the second age category are already included in the public protection system, we only have a development department in Zasavje, which includes children with special needs, which also requires substantial financial resources. What bothers me in this story is that the state here does not take responsibility even with the solutions that are in this law, these solutions are too small. I will give you one specific example concerning the child protection network in our congregation. We have made some investments in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Sport in the celebration of the 100-year anniversary of the organization of children's education and care in the Municipality of Hrastnik, we have all agreed. When we have completely restored one unit of kindergarten and when the state should provide only the share that goes to us under the Law on the Financing of the Communities, this country was nowhere, from last June to today we are waiting for you to provide the money we agreed on. If this is how you intend to support the expansion of the network of public institutions in this area, then I don't know what you're doing. What I would like to point out is that I agree to ensure greater inclusion of children up to 90%, I said earlier that in Hrastnik we are doing this, that we are already at 83%, and I believe that in the coming years we will ensure this network so wide that over 90% of the farming children will be involved in organised care and education, but not in terms of professionalism and quality, which I think we should not allow, and this solution, which is in law, at least some, goes to, I will say, at the expense of both expertise and quality. I'm only going to tell you two things about the environment I come from, with this involvement of children 83%. Approximately 20 to 25% of children are included free of charge in the system of farming or education because social imagery is such in the valleys. By the 4th grade, approximately 60 % to 65% of parents there are paid. From the fourth grade to the eighth grade, there is this difference. But, because we are talking about what bothers me, in some way it is necessary to relieve parents and also local communities and to ensure a greater role for the state in this. Not only is he preparing some changes to the laws that are written very quickly and that come in pre-election time, you can say whatever you want, but that's the way it is, but especially with actions, it's said to do some serious analysis, I believe you have it at the Ministry. But if you do, why don't you give it to the MPs, too, to see how this is arranged within the country? If this serious analysis is done, then, on the basis of this serious analysis, let us also prepare how we will spread this network so that we can even ensure greater involvement of children in the system of protection and education and also provide adequate financial resources. It hasn't been so far, and somehow I can't support this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you very much. On the basis of an informal conversation with Ambassador Marika Pozsonec, I ask whether anyone would object to being given five minutes to discuss, despite the business provisions. As long as no one objects to this and we agree that this remains our secret, therefore, between the Members and the public accompanying us, instead of the first five? Mrs Marika, no one is opposed to this proposal. It's yours for five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much for understanding my colleagues and you, Mr Vice President. So, I would like to express my opinion on kindergartens in this dilemma. The spindle has a program that is controlled by top experts. We can't talk about child protection. A spin to provide comprehensive education, ranging from aesthetic to musical to visual education, and also a child there gets the first foundation on the nature of human relations, all of which means that the public network of kindergartens needs to be strengthened and made possible that as many children as possible can go there because children still do not walk because parents have to pay hugely. In my view, teachers should be paid by the State and parents can also contribute to material conditions. But the educators should be paid by the state. For my understanding, this is also offensive to them because they have higher education, and I think there would be a solution to this. The vision of the Ministry and of all of us should be to get the children who are now on the grey market into public kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round of applications for discussion. Here you go. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Now is the time to explain why the Group of Members has really proposed deleting this article, even though you have been discussing this for so many hours, but still. We have understood the purpose of this law as the opportunity to consolidate the public network and to achieve some of the standards that Europe expects us to achieve, even as you say. That's why you've turned shorter programs into a little bit longer to make statistics better, or somehow you've already implanted them in those half-day programs. And that's why you've introduced other solutions, which is fine. The public network is good, and if it gets any better, so much better. But all that you are proposing with this article is said, by introducing private protection, to distance yourself from the objective you represent, the educational and protective institutions, the educational and protection network, which is not the same as protection. We're here at different ends. And we think, so we've also proposed this as a deletion so that it can be arranged differently. For example, the Law on Marriage and Family Receipts does not introduce or resolve household protection issues with domestic helpers, for example. No, because it doesn't have to, because there are other laws, there are other forms and other solutions. And so security, which is here, and this is painful, could somehow be brought into that network and into those solutions that are already made possible by the Education and Education Financing Act. We have shorter programmes, Mr Bajc, because even in demographically threatened environments they have the advantage of establishing shorter programmes within the current ones. But they didn't. They have not been established, and also many others, I think that fourteen forms are possible, including private educational and protective activities with concessions and with other forms, have not come to life. Why? Because they're difficult. Because they're expensive. Because they include education, which has certain conditions that the guardian will not need because he will only protect and not implement certain programmes. But it's okay. That's what it takes. We live in capitalism. Those who can pay will do so and will get it, registers will exist and so on. What led us to withdraw this solution from this law is that it does not follow the law, I mean kindergartens, the principle of education, education and protection, which has certain criteria and which, of course, can be seen elsewhere as private protection. I admit, however, that within the turbulent, long-lasting and sometimes constructive, until Mr Tank's performance, the consideration on the parental committee was a concern when, perhaps even when he saw the possibility of private protection, my colleague gave it as an opportunity for private protection to be financed from the state budget. I've got problems here. Okay, we don't have that kind of amendment, but the problem is, let's say, here I see it. In this context, no, flexibility is fine. Flexibility is fine, including the one that we see and recognize in countries, for example, you specify Sweden where forms are so-called free. But it's not about security without the program, it's not about what Mr. Kumer said was right about parking a car and I'm not looking where and how, but it's parked, it's about everything else that can be offered. These are other programs, and that's why we deleted them. We're not against flexibility, we're not against expanding these options. But it's interesting why they haven't so far, when the odds are. Because programs are difficult because they mean an educational process, not just protection as a detective activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much, and I invite Member Janez Drobnic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u92	The question was born. Which law would we bring this provision into? Certainly not in the Company Act because it is a system law. The Economic Communities Act provides for a legal form. So the subjectivity of the company and, in fact, this provision also relies on it. So this could be a new marriage. Or to change the title of this law and to supplement the Law on Kindergartens and Guardians, I don't know, at home or anything like that. But everything that the applicant has prepared is not contrary to the nomotechnic rules, and I see no reason for it. However, I would certainly not agree that this would come under any economic regulation. Oh, no. Just keep it here, you know, long enough to define it. The question was whether it was complementary or alternative. Clearly, it is evident from the law that the law on kindergartens is defined, and we know that the public service is defined, and how the public service is, what it is, what this matter is about, what we are talking about, which is not a public service, is not a public service. This can be understood from this provision, there is no dispute. I had a question about funding, and this could stay open. Still, why isn't this form funded? That's a legitimate question. You opened it. On the other hand, I disagree with you. If you delete this provision, this means that you agree to zero standards. But here they're just defined. If you delete this activity from the outside because it does not belong here, you advocate zero standards and speak contrary to what you or your colleagues are actually doing at the principal level. Should we then let the matter be open, that it continues to take place on a purely private, black level, gray market? Are we in favour of this or is it better to regulate the first degree of regulation and then maybe even upgrade something or maybe even subtract something? As far as higher standards are concerned, either diet. Sorry, even at the current level of regulation, which is not really an arrangement, this did not appear to be a problem, perhaps with some regulated foods food is worse than with Grandma or something like that. But I don't want to discuss it this way, because we all know well or to set higher standards of education. We must ask ourselves, now the activity takes place on an unregulated basis, can be performed by anyone, as an informally, on a grey market, perhaps without payment, without reimbursement, which is permissible. It's not illegal. This activity may also be carried out by persons who do not even have a primary school. There are now significantly higher standards. Is it wise to set a standard of higher education or even to require professor status? We're just going to imitate that kind of protection. It's just an exaggeration, but there won't be any added value or higher quality. In this respect there are no subsidies, there are no subsidies for this activity and this is also one of the differences to the public service which is being carried out in this main area, so that there will be no misunderstanding again. I understood this from the context of the law, not from the interpretation of professional colleagues or government representatives, that it was an complementary activity. It is regulation, one regulation that has so far been unregulated, free to take place at the first stage of regulation, but does not place it in the public service system. However, if the question of placement in the public service were to be raised, I would have questioned and would not have been in favour of putting this complementary way into the public service and supporting itself. There's no need. Why don't we have this variety?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Can we conclude with a discussion in connection with Article 9? Thank you. I therefore conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 9 and the amendments. However, I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, the amendment of the Group of Members of Parliament, the amendment of the Group of Members of Parliament: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. He wants someone to discuss it. No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate envisaged. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment, for the first time: the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for the second time: the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members and for the third time the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. I conclude the debate envisaged. We are moving on to the debate on Article 17 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups, for the first time: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and for the second time the amendment of the SNS Group. I also conclude the debate envisaged. We turn to Article 31 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. And A, I'm sorry. [[...]] Messenger Jeraj, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much. However, there is something to be said in the last article. Maybe there's something else about this debate we've had. First, some of you tell us that we are idealists because we think that someone will register and pay the tax, then there will be enough to jeopardize the presence in kindergartens. Part of the opposition is concerned that, like in kindergartens, the country subsidises home security, others again worry that this subsidy will not and will result in inequality and some talk about creating inequality. Well, when we were talking about inequality in another law, when the state was making 85% of the program subsidies for certain primary schoolchildren and students, and 100% for others. Nobody heard anything about inequality, and everything was fine. It seems important for us to introduce the novel, that is, even more than what the original purpose was, so as to reduce parental co-financing for another child at the same time. So the older kid's still in kindergarten. And Article 31 says that we will gradually improve this for our parents, making them even more burdensome. That is why we have tabled such an amendment and we support it in our mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Given the fact that there is more desire after the debate, I am opening the procedure. Please. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you. Ms Jeraj took too long to comment on the different views of the groups and Members of Parliament. Let me just say that all I see out of all this is how unthinkable and poorly prepared the solutions that are seen in this marriage. That's another thing I'd like to say. Social Democrats did not participate in the financial resolution of parental payments because in principle we support the tendency to reduce parental payments and free kindergartens is the fundamental strategic objective of the Social Democrats. However, it is inappropriate to address this problem in the way that you have dealt with the coalition Members and Members when you have offered different solutions from the moment you consider no financial consequences of these solutions for the increased desire to enrol children in kindergartens with spatial capacity and to impose responsibility for the provision of funds, budgetary solutions and others. It started very populistally, with free for the second and third children, we end up with commitments there in 2014. Congratulations, Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I invite Member Borut Saiovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must say, in principle, I have no serious problems with this law. Although things are well thought up, people will like them, but everyone in this story can sing as much as money does. I am particularly disturbed by this objective that we have moved all these key solutions into another period of some other new incoming government. Above all, I fear that we are putting a lot of these financial obligations on the local community. That's what I'm worried about. In the media, I would say the government's assessment of how much the congregations were supposed to get for this, more money for that kid who's going to be in kindergarten for free. I must say that I also support the goal that, as in schools, we make free kindergartens, that parents and congregations do not pay, but that the congregation provides material conditions, as in primary schools. However, if I look at how much money you've spent, the extra money for a free second child, then I see that the simple means you have planned will not be enough, and if someone has to cover them, if there is no ministry, the parents won't, and thank God they won't, then we'll cover them in local communities. And, I wonder, you've already decided at the Ministry how much more money will you give to the municipalities for the upgrade and the construction of new kindergartens? I haven't seen any of these funds in my budget so far. This construction will have to start quickly and efficiently. And if I can just tell you a few details about what's going on in the municipalities and kindergartens right now. With the budget, you gave us 2.08% of the extra money, and inflation caused the following. We are getting into the signing of an annex to promote public education and currents, which is also an important part of the costs in kindergartens for between 30% and 44%. Wages in kindergartens representing 80% of all costs will be raised by between 3.5 and 4%. New contracts, for food suppliers, are being judged by incentives there between 15% and 25%, and heating, which is an important factor in kindergartens, will be excited, say, gas or fuel oil, somewhere between 11% and 13%. These are the things I care about. It's easy to say, "We'll do it for free." And promise it. The second is, of course, in practice, to ensure the functioning of such institutions and, above all, money. And here I want the answers of the Minister and the representatives of the Ministry. How much more money do you plan to build, to upgrade and to finance municipalities, how much more money will we get into budgets for this purpose? Otherwise, the basic initiative to make kindergarten accessible to all and as cheap as possible is supported by all of us in this Chamber. There's only one difference. To promise something, and another is to do it in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I also invite Ambassador Ljubo Germić to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Therefore, the very important objective of this law, which cannot be opposed, is, of course, the burden on families to pay for kindergartens. Of course, the strategy of this law is to relieve those families who have more children in kindergarten. This objective can in fact be renegotiated from different perspectives. The current situation, where the biggest problem is, shows that, of course, this problem can be seen in the fact that we have a step-by-step scale of parenting into the scale according to the participation of the cost of children involved in kindergarten. The question is whether a different solution can be sought in terms of what is proposed here. It has already been said that the proposed solution was largely unthinkable. That she had the character not only to help people, but to hang it on the big bell, given that there's only going to be an election this fall. For when we follow a change in the content of this law, we can see how we are interfering with the content of this article. Therefore, we are substantially changing the content, while at the same time targeting financial liabilities mainly in the years after 2010, 2012 and after 2014. Of course, this speaks of the intention of this government and this ministry, how to resolve this situation. A first look at this question is why it is so late, why this Government is so late to address all these issues. Someone said, yes, the economic situation is so favourable, but we're doing it now that the economic situation is falling. This government was unable to propose these measures when economic conditions were significantly more favourable than forecasts today. Today we have the Student Diet Act, we expect the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will bring more than ten million burdens on public finances in the state budget. Therefore, the question arises as to whether it makes sense and how it makes sense to provide for this, forgive me, for families with two children. Would it not make sense to consider that the exemption would also be intended for families with one child? And would it not make sense to tie the exemption to the social situation in families as well? We know that today we have a very different economic power for individual families in Slovenia. And there is a question of whether Slovenia accepts the fact that those who have little should have the same help as those who have substantially more. This is a very important issue, including the political issue in this sense, how to approach this problem. We will also face these issues in the same way with regard to the content of other laws. Because the same question will arise in the compensation for supplementary health insurance payments, why take social criteria into account there and do not take it into account here. What is the difference in the values of Slovenian society in relation to these issues? So this thought is extremely important. And that is why we have also proposed an amendment to Article 14, which in a different way approaches to solving this problem, as you are now referring to, say, through amendments to different articles and to this Article 31 on this stage. We therefore propose that the first child should also be made easier and that all further children should be included in the concept of relief, and we are also considering that these facilities should somehow be linked to the social status and situation of families in the Republic of Slovenia. Here we find it very important to think about the solutions and solutions that go in terms of ensuring greater inclusion, ensuring the quality of education and ensuring the capacity that will have to be established, as already said by Comrade Saiovic, so providing material conditions for this integration, unless you think that there will be no way-out in protecting that way rather than in pre-school education at the systemic level. And here too, the fundamental issue of distinction is now being raised. Those or those families who decide to involve their children in the protection of preschool children, what this law brings to these children, do not bring these children anything, no subsidies are intended for this field, that is, for these children or for these parents. Therefore, in the context of the debate on this amendment, we are also discussing the concept of how to approach reducing the obligations of parents in order to make decision-making easier for children, so that the participation of parents and local communities will be reduced, that the obligations of the family budget for the inclusion of children in preschool education will be reduced, while taking into account a specific social criterion that will distinguish those who are in need of this assistance and this measure from those which may not be included today, given that they have an extremely good social situation in their family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you very much. And last discusser, the minister has the floor. Minister Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your statement, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to be able to answer once the debates that were related to Article 19 of this novel. First, the issue of burdening local communities and what the Ministry will do to increase the spatial capacity of kindergartens. We have already learned one more invitation to tender this year, so we will also increase in some proportion the co-investment share in the improved material condition of work in the area of preschool education, at least 30% in the amount of 1.66 million euros. In short, we would also like to see the founders of the local community who carry out this original task more often or more often choose to invest in such capacities. Here, given that we already have 82% in the second age period, it's not even about that many new capacities. However, given that I assume that the capacity is free where waiting species are smaller or not at all, it also assumes that waiting species are where the capacity is smaller. This is also why we will try to encourage the founder to invest more in improving such capacities. We expect this law to affect, let's say that some 1,000 children would immediately increase their involvement, i.e. by 1,000 children. Which means that some major problems should not be, plus, of course, policies accelerated, a more intensive policy of investing in this. See, with this model like us, that is, the other child and every next free, we also wanted to influence demographic policy or one of the goals was this. To make it easier for young families or families to decide for another child earlier, for example, if they were given free of charge for the first child, but those motivations would not be stimulated. However, that we have a long-term strategy to relieve parents, we have just set out in one of the preceding articles. That's 10, 12, 14. First we would start with five-year-old children who are closest to primary school and then four and then three years very gradually. At this point, for example, if you introduced free kindergarten for parents, it is simply not capacity. Not just space. Financial as well as human resources, of course, because we also need qualified educators to provide this service. But we would gradually go into this, our goal is also free parenting, but it is simply not possible to ensure this goal at once. However, if the options are later, sooner than we have highlighted this dynamic, the legislator or the executive power will be able to change everything. I hear more than once now the obvious: "Why now?" We've told you. Because now there's a chance we can do this. Two years ago, there was no such possibility. But if you find out if any other authority will be elected in the fall, choose. You will have every opportunity to change the law and bring the old regime forward. If that is how you will like it or if you feel that this is absolutely necessary. But now these options are. We create some systemic conditions for raising and the quality and inclusion of children in kindergartens, especially in the second age period, and we want to do so as we have proposed. The social dimension remains. We're not taking down the ladder. We're not taking down the ladder. However, we will relieve our parents on, practically, all payment scales. So the element, the social element stays inside, is not being eliminated. I'm sorry you don't all join this positive story. If everyone joined nicely, and the Social Democrats, and indeed, in this story and this project, we would all support this model, let's say we all got some credit in the Slovenian public for this proposal we have here. I don't know why you're an apriorist against such favorable parental solutions. I'm not telling you this in particular, but I'm telling you about the parliamentary groups that were so against it today. They found the guardian element from which they made a target. I regret that we have not agreed on some good stories and found greater consensus and greater support in this legislative body. Last but not least, I think the issue is optimal that no political community can adopt this law, no political party, but it is, say, a gift from the state of Slovenia to parents who want to encourage young families to have more children. We do not take political credit for this novel that we are giving to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'm opening a re-entry circuit, within the time available. Member Branko Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u104	Good bye to all of you! I must say that it is quite unusual that one such positive thing as achieving a goal that I am convinced is known as a long-term goal is an extremely high degree of consensus in Slovenian society, so in the direction of free kindergartens, that there is so much and so much beef as it has been for some time now. With regard to the so-called Ombudsman, when it comes in essence only to recognising some reality, some reality and the attempt of its proper legal regime, true science and a few doctorates have been made, I think, in the discussions that have taken place. But I prefer not to answer it myself because it is a recognition of a condition that we have witnessed to him, a gray zone that has not been arranged and better arranged as if everything remained the same. If you feel that you have tools in your hands in the autumn and that you are better off in the old ways, you may also have the opportunity to arrange them. And I don't think you'll even have one, because we're putting something new on now. What we're putting on new is a step in the direction that I'm saying is that there is a really big consensus. All available to the fullest extent possible, free kindergarten. This introduction is gradually taking place because, of course, it is due to the fact that at this point capacity does not allow for an immediate transition that it itself would have, believe me, as a father truly wanted, but it is about things being prepared for the next generations, that a goal is set that is realistic, that is feasible, and that it acts as an incentive for even more, as luckily as in this mandate already, Slovenian citizens and citizens, to decide for children. For all the great words, all the great accomplishments, all that we do is without meaning, if the child is not. That is why this trend, which has been emerging since 2005, is certainly something worth maintaining, which is also worth investing in as much money as it is available and with today's law. Gradually, thoughtfully, but in a way that is certainly realistic and realistic. In this way it will be possible to create a situation where children will be at least in their second period, that is to say from the third year forward the gradual integration to the greatest extent possible in kindergartens, thus also making many of those discussions that were previously more or less meaningless. And in this way taken care of their mutual socialization, for their development, with the appropriate quality of kindergartens that we certainly have in Slovenia, as well as to help them in this development, to ensure the development of the most positive of their qualities, which during this period are the most pronounced and most sensitive. It is our children and I do not understand how this debate can be so intense. Why is this only happening now, and there was a very present point throughout this debate? If you go to watch what we said in 2004, before the elections, you will read exactly what we are making today. What did we say? First of all, it is necessary to ensure that the economy is at the root of everyone's well-being with a sober, high-economic economy. We have now seen the period of the longest stable and far largest economic growth in the history of Slovenia. All the numbers testify to that. By comparison, during the last two governments elected by the LDS and the SD, inflation was two to three times higher than today and economic growth is half lower. By achieving twice as much economic growth, we have created real conditions for us to take this step today and not know why such reservations are. We have a real basis for taking a step in the right direction, because the ultimate goal, at least for me personally, I also hope in this that there is a certain consensus that we would eventually get really to completely free kindergartens. But at least the first step is worth doing. It is necessary to start somewhere, and at this point it can be achieved that at least those who have more children at the same time in kindergartens will have free of charge for all children from the first time on. Then gradual integration takes place with 50% reduction. This will take several years and, of course, additional capacity will be needed, so this is also a step. And once we have this basis, I am sure that if the current economic development, the speed of economic development, is maintained, then, of course, it will be possible to move forward after this period, this percentage will increase as soon as possible and eventually come closer to the final goal that some neighbouring countries already have in the European Union. The point is that I say that no financial step should be held back when it comes to the issue of children. Especially in a nation that has lost its substance for many, many years. Partly because of the regime that led many to go abroad, even more sadly because of the wrong value system that was established, which resulted in an increasing number of children. Now the trends have turned, now it is time to further strengthen this, to accelerate and this step can be taken today, in support of this law. I personally hoped that after the amendments were prepared in a direction that I can honestly say that I have taken all the time, and the Minister can also confirm this, that I myself have been personally all the time for integration throughout the second period and that the possibility of doing so is examined as soon as possible and as soon as possible. Now the amendments are made in this direction. This is not only the direction that I stand for personally or the SDS as a whole, thank God that I have a party with whom I have the same values, but which the opposition has also advocated at the time of the debate of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. It was quite explicitly said there, several times by the individual Members and members of the opposition, that we should go towards integration, fostering integration into kindergartens for the whole second period. This is said from the third year to the entrance to primary school, for reasons related to the development of children who speak for these solutions, and this was also the reason why there was no particular enthusiasm for the solution initially adopted with the amendment to be covered only in the last year prior to inclusion in primary school. Although this would also have certain advantages over the present situation. But some of the opposition also specifically said that they would vote in favour of these amendments for a reason, because they expect appropriate changes in the right direction to be proposed before the meeting of the National Assembly. And these changes are here today. Exactly the way those in the opposition who have certainly had some experience in this area have been taking the lead. That is why, as it is said, it is very difficult to understand the sharpness of this debate. It is true that the elections are approaching, but it is true that the opposition must show the possibility of an alternative in some way, but in this case I think it is done in the wrong way. I think everyone here would do best from your point of view in the opposition if we went in the direction of consensus. For this consensus is common, this consensus, which now covers the whole second period, is said to be, from the third year to entry into kindergarten, it is professionally justified, no doubt, and reflects the real possibilities that this country has, both the capacity in kindergartens and the financial capacity based on high economic development in the last period. And we could do this together. And today, there was still controversy, and there was opposition. And I personally believe that this opposition is just such a mistake as was the opposition's opposition to the government's leadership. All the polls show that people have not rewarded this vehement opposition. And I firmly believe that even now, opposition to these marriage solutions will not pay anyone. I would therefore suggest that, however, here, when we found a common point when we found some consensus, when we prepared amendments in the direction for which you yourself appealed to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports to confirm this with some agreement and with joy, because it is a common matter, for what we all like to say is the most precious thing in the world, and these are our children.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u105	Mag. Exploitation, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In view of the last two discussions, I propose that we suspend the meeting for so long that Mr Minister is able to read the magnetograms of today's debates, as well as the debates on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, and that he will find in them a place where he will be able to see for the Social Democrats that we Social Democrats, in any way, have opposed the reduction of the payments of parents for child protection. What Mr Minister has done in his previous performance is to manipulate the public, which has not had the opportunity to monitor the entire debate. And I think that in this National Assembly we have recently heard such highly manipulated statements made in a wide variety of contexts that it would once be possible to do exactly what I have suggested - to stop, to read the magnetograms, and whoever writes such a statement to someone, but it was an affidavit to the Social Democrats and the Zares, both of them, to find in magnetograms a place where this can be proved. However, the Minister would be expected to be responsible for the public word at a slightly different level. That this is what Mr President of the Committee likes to do is an old practice. But it is unacceptable for someone to lie like that, given that the only amendment we have tabled by the Social Democrats and who has spoken against the bill was the amendment to Article 9. If Mr Minister didn't have time to participate in the debate, I can understand that, but I don't have to apologize. But speaking such an untruth is unacceptable, and I repeat, I suggest we suspend the meeting for so long that Mr. Minister can find in a magnetogram proof of what he claimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, I know you know that, like each of us, that we will be closer to election day, there will be more manipulation from all sides. I believe that those who co-create the law know well who is telling the truth and who is not. Therefore, your procedural proposal, unfortunately, cannot be put to the vote either. As far as I know, you knew. However, we continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. I didn't understand the Minister as much as I did now. However, I would like to say that it is very important to me what demographic policy the Government is leading. Whether one or the other, I welcome what is written in the law in this particular area, and I am sure that it will have a positive impact on our demographic situation. Now that this is divided in time, it is certain that the Ministry has considered such a proposal that it should also maintain in practice. However, if necessary later, either this or another government will correct or correct the matter. However, I would like to say that pre-school education, particularly as regards investment areas, is almost entirely dependent on local communities. Many times we ask ourselves what is the bigger problem. Whether it is a major problem that we do not have available space or another problem of paying or burdening our parents. And it bothers me a lot, what has been heard today, when certain solutions are proposed, which this law also contains, because, above all, when we speak from the point of view of local community investments, there is an alternative solution at the Ministry that could be very good. Also in terms of the financial burden on local communities to oppose this many. And amendments, or what has been discussed in previous amendments, are certainly one of those options that I think every mayor would welcome. You know, I also look forward to certain investments so that the mayor or the municipal council can collide and decide on certain projects where a lot of money is invested. You know, when we talk about preschool education, when we talk about facilities that should still be built or built, there's a lot of them, and probably the mayor or the municipal council can't just soloize it, but we'll leave that behind, and there's no money, because this is actually a project for the whole municipality or for all the people in the municipality. You know, we have a lot of problems when we take children from other congregations. Many times we have problems when we can't even provide our own or give our children the chance to be in kindergarten. The biggest "guy" so far was the one, I'll say under the nod, either the mayor, who hasn't done anything in this area. Thus, he did not burden the congregation’s budget, nor did his parents, since parents did not even have the opportunity to put their children in kindergarten. But I'm sure there were very few of them. As the mayor of one Slovenian municipality, I also very much welcome the solutions that are in this law. And I don't think today's hourly debate, which has mainly had a political note, is good. If we really want what the Minister said earlier, what the goal is to do something about demographics, then these are the right solutions. There are solutions, and even in local communities they welcome these solutions. And to be wise about it or politically now to discuss it, yes, there will be elections in the autumn, why so late, why not sooner, because we are not doing this now for 2008, we are probably working forward, for 2009, 2010, 2011 and so on. And if, on the other hand, local communities are working hard, I am sure that everything is being done to ensure that everyone has the capacity of kindergartens to this extent, so that all of our small citizens and citizens can accept it, then it would be right to give support to these good solutions. But I don't see any problem with why we shouldn't have a baby-sitter. What was said earlier about this - although I apologize, I was a little late - when as mayor myself I can say that I would be very happy if this option were in practice, not in black, but to legalise as it says here, and why not for those 15, 20 children who are currently unable to come to my kindergarten, offer alternative solutions to supplements, you will get a word and later you will be able to tell your opinion. So that I certainly support the solutions and I am also sure that in practice they will come to life and solve many of the problems that are emerging in local communities today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much. And to my word, I invite Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you very much, once again, I hope this is the last time. Look, there is no doubt that if my colleagues have allowed themselves some summaries or summaries of the whole debate today, let me just briefly say a few words about the law in its entirety. Yeah, it's true. It's a law that, I believe, is well-intentioned, has good intentions, will to some extent burden the parents, relieve the local community. It may even increase the involvement of children in preschool education, but on the other hand, I really wonder why the whole pump, so many populism words, this populism, which sounds cheaply compressed if you want, price or seriousness to the proposed solutions under this law. Dear colleague Grims, you have mentioned the high economic growth that has brought our country into this mandate for a period that actually constitutes some kind of basis for the well-being of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder if we really live in a period of prosperity, if that were the case, then we would not need to adopt such laws today. The welfare of citizens and citizens in fact, if you want, are the numbers, the numbers on the ground, the numbers talking about how people live, say that 40% of the children in our country are already facing poverty, and they undoubtedly know the most about it by the teachers and teachers in primary school, when they see the children who are, I'll say, the target of various psychological pressures, the ridicule of going to school with torn shirts, because it's simply the well-being of citizens and citizens that they can't buy, I don't know, Nike T-shirts, it's reality, respected colleagues and colleagues. I say that the law is basically well-intentioned, but this law does not take into account the social component or social correction. I believe that an official from this Parliament does not need a subsidy or a free kindergarten. As much as it takes a Mure worker to get a grant that the official loses his right because he doesn't have two children in kindergarten at the same time to get the state's help. That's the problem with this marriage. And at the expense of an official who doesn't need to be given a state subsidy for having a child enrolled in preschool education. And at the expense of this official, the deadline expires in 2014, the period by which everyone should be entitled to state aid or who can finally talk about free kindergartens in our country. That's the problem, and that's what we wanted to warn you about. We have tabled an amendment in the Group of Non-Related Members, tabled an amendment that would take account of this correction or social status in our country. So you said to him on his mother's work committee, "No!".. He is substantially more righteous than what has been adopted, or what is once again described in Articles 14 and 16. I will see whether tomorrow, when the vote on these amendments, which are still open or we will be able to achieve so much responsibility and justice for those people, I have mentioned 40% of the people, children, I apologize, today is facing poverty in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr President, for my words, although I applied earlier, I don't know why it wasn't recorded. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In your position, you can laugh at the words that have been spoken, but many words have been weighty and justified. In such a way that taking into account the proposals made by the opposition amendments into account on the working body, the discussion today could be slightly different. And yet this marriage really offers something, basically gives something and it will be difficult to press the counter button. However, it leaves enormous open dilemmas and, of course, also causes new injustices. It pains me that today we are talking about the fact that the primary burden of kindergartens will still be on the congregations. You know, kindergarten needs to be maintained from the municipal budget, even if there's only one child there. And we believe that there is not only one child in any kindergarten, but the fact is that the biggest cost for kindergartens is just the cost of work. We have tabled three amendments in our parliamentary group, but they have all been transported. And if I focus only on the fact that from the state budget we wanted to provide money for kindergartens to co-finance the payments of the service; I am talking from the state budget; but you refused this; and of course we also wanted to relieve families and not only talk about families that have children in kindergarten, but also about families that have children in primary school. As I said before, even the elementary school, we know that it is not free in Slovenia, unfortunately. It is also sad that the primary school and kindergarten are free of charge for the Italian minority. And I would like, not to reduce this right of minorities in Primorskie or elsewhere, I speak for Primorsko, to introduce equality, the principle of equality throughout Slovenia. Why say that it would not be possible for us to do so, but for a minority to do so? In short, this marriage is a kind of coffee that can be good, sweet and creamy, but it looks like we're gonna have to drink bitterly today. This coffee will be more bitter. But the fact is, parents won't be happy either, because we haven't even allowed them subsidies in the part where they don't have anything to do with it, and because of overcrowded kindergartens, which is there as a competition, maybe worse or better, let's leave it now, but the fact is that it's more expensive in any case. We also wrote in an amendment that we would like the price to be paid to families if they did not have the opportunity to enroll a child in a kindergarten providing a public service activity. You refused to do that, too. I don't know why, but it was rejected. In short, my colleague was talking about poverty in front of me. I agree with Mrs Žgajner, 25% of poverty is in Slovenia. This is an official statistical information that you can get on the basic internet network, and it's probably old. And if we're talking about this data, it's half a million people in Slovenia who live at the edge of poverty and enjoy social transfers. And yet these people have families. True, it is reasonable to conclude that these children then live as they do. They're probably living in need. And no one here in this room today has shaved off those who are very smart and frivolous and avoid paying a full price. I will mention them, we also have so-called tycoons, rich people who are in a separate life, living in a life-partnership relationship, and mothers are single mothers in this case, although they are all together at the same address and they are probably sleeping together in marriage beds. But the law doesn't control it, it doesn't check people like that, and some really bring kids into kindergarten with a BMW, and they pay nothing. That's real information. Minister, I would ask that through our social services, which we pay dearly, we also examine such frauds, that is a fact. Poor guy, you know, he asks a few questions for help because he's too proud, he'd rather pay for it, and he'd have to rip his mouth off. And this law will be given with a large, large amount of pollen on our table, even because you say, we are pursuing the goal of one day this will be free. How, if you can offer free money to someone today, but you cannot guarantee it to the native people in Slovenia? I have proposed three good things already on the working body itself and also that some kindergartens be included in the budget lines. These kindergartens will be even more neglected tomorrow if we bring in, in fact, the province. Because it looks like you're gonna push them through the law. Because we know that only a dozen funds are earmarked for local communities that will take over roads, health homes, kindergartens, schools, and more, and then this thing will be even more ployal than it is today. Of course, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party. But I am really sad because nothing that was proposed, nothing, but the good proposals were not taken into account. So it's a shame. For you, of course, who rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Given that there is still a desire to discuss and that there will be no comments, I am opening the procedure. Procedural? You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only ask you to try, I know it's hard, I know that you try to direct the debate on the novel of the law on kindergartens, not on poverty, not on spreading lies, not on rips and not on those who can't buy Nike T-shirts. Don't do any commercials for some brands, please. We have a quality marriage, a quality novelty of the kindergarten law, and let us focus on it. Please, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Thank you for your warning. It's definitely in place. But, as you yourself have found, it would be almost impossible to follow the debate on Article 31 in recent discussions. In view of the fact that all the speakers, with the minister, were, of course, taking advantage of the last article. I'm asking, someone else wants it. Yes, we do. I'm opening the procedure. However, we will try to stick to the just-defined procedural decision. Here you go. We'll wait for the list to be drawn up. On my monitor, the list is drawn up, so I suggest we proceed with the meeting. Member Alenka Jeraj has the floor. For her, just let me, behind her is colleague Josef Jerovšek, behind him Branko Marinič, then Aleš Gulič, Ljubo Germič and Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Well, I wasn't going to come by anymore, but there were so many things said that there was something else to explain. Several colleagues and colleagues are talking about putting something on the next government and doing it just for the sake of elections. Since we will be in the next government, we will have no problem with this and we will be those things that we have also started and will realize them as we have imagined. I guess some would. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u117	Mrs Alenka Jeraj, just a minute ago we heard a procedural request for how to conduct the meeting. Please stick to the content of the proposed amendment. I'm sorry to start with you, but this is the only way we're going to bring this meeting forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u118	Well, there are some things you still have to say. A fellow mayor who has difficulty building a kindergarten has always supported a policy of Liberal Democracy that was not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u119	My colleague Jeraj. Next time, I'll warn you. Please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u120	It's just that everyone's been talking about it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u121	Colleague Jeraj, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u122	because we're talking about finance, and [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u123	I was just warned by your Members, [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Please! [[...]] I'm in charge of the session. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u124	Then I can't say anything about demographic policy either, because my colleague was accusing us, obviously. Then I don't know what to talk about if others can talk about everything and I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u125	You know that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speak or allow a debate on the proposed amendments. A colleague of Jozef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, I will talk about these deadlines, which are defined here, because of these deadlines it depends on the full implementation of this law, which should be called the "Free Kindergarten Act for the Second, Third and Next Children" so that people will actually be aware of and know what this Government actually brings, this coalition for the welfare of people who have small children and especially those who have some assistance and some social incentives most needed. Because there is now a deep awareness of the need to allocate the welfare of money throughout Slovenia. Unlike the opposition, which has shown by the destruction of the landscapes that only for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u127	Comrade Jerovšek [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u128	For central Slovenia only [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u129	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u130	works and therefore [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u131	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u132	Of course, this law is such a thorn in the heel, even though they will end up voting. [[...]] Now, my colleague used to say that this marriage has a good purpose. At the same time, this good purpose was characterized by populism and demagogism. I don't know if then in some software, some party, a good purpose strictly with the word "populism" will be mentioned? And look. Indeed a better law, a more socially oriented and more forward-looking law than I am in my parliamentary career, will soon be 12 years old, I have not experienced it. I think that this is actually the right lever and the right instrument for sending clear messages - how much this government is interested in looking at the future of children, at the future of Slovenia. I know that based on this, they will actually look brighter into the future of a young family. So I was very surprised this morning when I was driving a car and it was on the radio that day. Those who clearly saw that they were inspired by the opposition had no idea what they were imagining as to what some pre-election purposes were. Even if they were pre-election purposes, it's good for everyone. I know it's in your programs if you win the election, you'll end this law immediately. Just like you voted with your teeth clenched for a diaphragm. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u133	Comrade Jerovšek, second warning! On the third warning, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u134	Look, I'm talking about what's going to happen in 2010, 2012, 2013, as stated in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u135	You're talking about client political programs.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u136	I'm very strict on this amendment. I don't know, they're very troubled by opposition colleagues, the content of this law, I can see that. See, some people are talking about the implementation of this law - and this article speaks about the implementation of this law - this morning even said, "There are too many children in the world, why there are more incentives." I would like to know which types the listener was encouraged to speak of; surely from the opposition. Then again with the skeptic, "what do we want with it"? And I understand in this law the very positive things, the very positive trends, and I firmly believe that we will also get from the citizens a guarantee that we will be able to make it happen as a government party. That people will not vote against themselves in the next elections in order to support those who are today seeking perfidious negative elements in this law. Be more clear! Be more clear, say, we will only take care of the center of Slovenia. You are concerned about the fate of children of some oligarchs [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u137	Comrade Jerovšek, I know you won't mind if I take your word. Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Nevertheless, thank you for your quality contribution to Article 31. Member Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with a co-worker! Well, I'll try to stay in the agenda we're in. However, the amendment to Article 31 must be added that this amendment includes the possibility of discussing certain other articles, namely Articles 28 and 28.a. This implies that it is necessary to include in the discussion of Article 31 the resources of the local community and the provision of funds to cover costs that are not included in the price of the programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u139	My friend Marinic, what you're saying, I won't interrupt you until you come to the programmes of the other political parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u140	I'm going to try to take this into account because I think it's very important the content we're talking about today. However, I would like to point out here what the proposers of this amendment actually want to say - we are following the objectives set by the proposer as a goal at the outset, which are the basic and fundamental objectives for the amendment of the law. And I think it is very important that, when we speak and when the proposer tries to improve the situation in this area, he relieves the family budgets and thus makes a much larger and broader contribution to the larger number of births. However, we must not forget that we remain within a financial framework. It is in this financial framework that this stage needs to be taken into account. Those who would have wanted and I would have wanted it myself to have the applicant come with a law that would have fully burdened the families with the children they just had to send to kindergarten and thereby provide a considerable part of the family budget for these purposes. However, this stage needs to be taken into account. Not all of a sudden, it's not going as well as you would like, a lot of people and a lot of families would be burdened, and I believe many of those who find that if they could do it now and immediately, as soon as the new law is in force, of course, it would be so much better. However, it must be understood that the applicant comes from some possible frameworks. And thank God that this option is also seen in this stage: 2010, 2012 and 2014 and, of course, if we follow this dynamic, we can expect to talk in the long term in the Republic of Slovenia about free kindergartens, but this is the goal and this is what the proponent has said in the beginning. As it is said, in the SDS Group on the proposed amendment tabled by the coalition, the condition is met for us to agree to do so, with great desire and with a great deal of understanding of all those who would like to give it as soon as possible. However, it is not possible, there are frameworks within which the budget item is limited and here we need to have full understanding of the proposer and all of us who want the same objective. As soon as possible, but not with your head through the wall and if it doesn't, it won't work. But it is what some find. Even due to the payment of kindergartens by many families, unfortunately few are, but they are, we need to understand that there are cases where, unfortunately, children do not have enough quality clothes and maybe someone is also disfigured, but there is no point in discussing it. It was poverty, and it will be. We want this legislation to be as small as possible, but as it is said, even with such amendments to the new laws as it is today, we will achieve greater fertility and thus the desired goal is to be as many of us as possible, in order for families and children to have greater and more professional protection in kindergartens, but the objective that we want to achieve is not now, not immediately, not this year, but in the coming years as the content of the proposed amendment to the 31st article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u141	Thank you very much. You probably thought -- good thing there aren't many of them, unfortunately there aren't many of them, families like that. Not because of the record! Thank you very much. However, Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u142	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, like the whole law or the whole law, this amendment is in some way aimed at the future and literally so. The idea or spirit of this marriage would be a happy supporter, and I have no problems here. Of course, I have a problem with the fact that it is directed towards the future in some special way, in such a way that it places all responsibility on someone else. So today, we conclude something that will then be implemented and paid by others. It's a very rude invitation to a free lunch if you burden someone else and you invite them. As for the demographic movements that could take place in these years, it is good to calculate how this wave is after the war, and then around 1950 it is constantly repeated, and little and then probably no great need. [[...]] At least that's how it shows what's going on. That's why I think it's irrelevant and really misleading people with demography and all the bad things that used to be, and now we're having a good time. There used to be a lot of kids, because now there aren't many when we're having a good time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I'm not even gonna call the next speaker. Comrade Germich, I'm sorry. However, the text is by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We are at the 31st article or amendment of the coalition. I'll back him up. Gradually co-financing parental contributions for the second age period, that seems good to me. However, it is also necessary to say because of what I have heard from my colleague, how many children are poor, below the poverty threshold, that even now the Law on the Financing of Parents' Contributions is very social and that all those children who are below the poverty threshold are not paying any contributions to it. So there is no need to fear that they too will be disadvantaged by the new law. However, I would be pleased to see some children of officials benefit during this period, and to be a member in the coming period for which they are accepted. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u146	Mr Vice-President, I am protesting your biased leadership because you took my word for it, even though you assured me that you would be a broad provider before you ran it last time. And now that we have only time left to discuss, of course, you are limiting matters and discussions. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing to you that, as long as you are feeling nervous about setting up a party called "Lipsa", you no longer hold a meeting until you have established a client. Otherwise, you stick to democratic principles that all things are the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u147	Thank you so much for your attention. But we do have another public debater. Is there anyone else besides Comrade Grimes? Then I'll reopen the procedure. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. Only Member Branko Grimes has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u148	Look, I just wanted to explain how it could be nice to talk when it took some time to face up to the arguments and now we've agreed very quickly with colleague Tavšev. In fact, the key problem is that the pursuit of the final goal is not really a financial asset itself. Some colleagues have, in my opinion, overemphasized this too. In fact, the capacity of kindergartens is a key problem. This is why such a step is envisaged. Because of numerous warnings, including by the congregations, that excessive haste would cause them very serious problems. Therefore, this law, in the form it is now submitted, is indeed realistic and realistic and, of course, more radical measures have not been proposed at this time. However, if it turns out that the capacities will be appropriate if faster development is maintained, as we have had it now, that it will also be so in the next mandate, then I am sure that this process will be further accelerated and move as quickly as possible in the direction around which I am pleased to note that there is clearly a consensus that the goal of reaching truly free kindergartens accessible to all after this transitional period is complete. I think that this goal is something worth following in our decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Comrade Pukšič, would you like to discuss it? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Cooperation! As regards the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Kindergartens and the introduction of the possibility of free kindergartens for the second and next children, it has finally matured knowledge in this country that this is one of the measures which will expose both children in the demographically threatened area and children in the cities at least at their earliest years of age to approximately the same starting point. And since the Slovenian Democratic Party has always stood up for the start, for everyone in the country, to have no matter where they are born and how rich parents are equal to the starting conditions, this amendment of the law is welcome. I would rather personally see that these steps, as in Article 31, would not be necessary, but that this law should also take into account operational options and should therefore take account of this stage. I even hope, and even believe, that the Minister may even bring about a rebalancing of this law or amendment in early next year, a re-amendment of this law where, after a factual review of the situation, we may be able to identify and shorten some of these deadlines so that the benefits for our children in the country will apply as soon as possible and that the starting opportunities will benefit from this title, in fact, as soon as possible. In any event, given the level of social product per capita in central Slovenia, it is necessary to say, compared to other parts of our country, that these differences are extremely large, extremely large due to certain decisions in the previous two, three mandates relating to centralism, and these differences are also large because in previous mandates, unenriched wealth and unfair distribution of social property has been allowed. We are now trying to correct these mistakes years ago in this mandate, but not all at once. That is why I believe that it takes at least one more mandate to bring things to the green branch, so I will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Can we also close the debate by article 31? Thank you very much. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue it at 3 p.m. by addressing item 1 of the agenda adopted, this is with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. I also ask the ministers to conclude the debate. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 21 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be determined on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The following questions will be raised at the 33rd, 34th, 35th meeting of the Assembly only by ministers present today. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask questions. The President of the Government, the ministers, answer the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Minister for Transport Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister of Public Administration Dr. Gergor Virant, Minister of the Interior Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of Justice Dr. Lovro Šturm and Minister of Defence Mr. Karl Erjavec. You have received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. Mr. Bevk, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will make a procedural proposal, and before that, I am canceling my two questions to the Minister of Economy, Mag. The visionary and the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Virant, are absent today. Unfortunately, I have announced the questions before you and the Government have informed the National Assembly, which ministers and ministers will be absent today, and I will therefore refer both questions that I intend to refer orally today in writing. Today, after we have asked questions to the Prime Minister Janez Janša, we are supposed to answer 15 unanswered questions from previous meetings, and only on 20 questions will we start with questions that fall on time for the February meeting of the National Assembly. That is why I propose, Mr President, that today the President of the Government responds to questions such as is envisaged to answer unanswered questions, but that all those parts belonging to the February meeting be organised within a specific time frame so that we have a secure presence of ministers and ministers. This will continue at least within the month of March, April, May and June, when the Republic of Slovenia will preside over the Council of the European Union. I therefore propose that you agree at the College of the National Assembly on how to organise, in advance, an effective question-making process. For this is one of the few options that Members and Members have to face the government's views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr Bevk, I must excuse them in some way on behalf of the absent ministers, because the absence is also conditioned because the item from Monday was postponed to today, we have made this decision directly on Monday and, of course, there has been some more confusion in organising this. However, any Member who has a question addressed to a minister who is not present may say, "I will not put it up, I will put it next time." Or set it up and say, "I demand an oral answer." Or set him up and say, "I'm satisfied with the written answer." With regard to the initiative for the College, please refer such initiatives directly to the College and your Group of Members is always present at the College. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. First, Mr Wingo Jelinčič Trimeniti will put the question before the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you so much for having a good day together. The regional development of Slovenia since the performance of Dr. Žagar as Minister without a licence responsible for local self-government and regional policy has been carried out by increasing development differences from 2004 to 2008. Less developed Slovenian regions are even more underdeveloped than they were in 2004. On the other hand, we can witness that Mr Žagar is funding his or her SLS mayors with European money and thus paying for political propaganda to his or her party. The resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 is one of the key strategic development projects prepared by the Development Service in 2006, including projects to promote the competitiveness of the economy, faster development of small and medium-sized enterprises. For this purpose, Slovenia has more than a billion euro of funding, which is divided by about one quarter for the economy and three quarters for the municipalities. This includes € 365 million for the development programmes of nine economic centres across regions, of which €306 million from the European Union and €59 million from the budget, and €991 million from the budget for the operational programmes of the municipalities, of which €843 million from Europe and € 148 million from the budget. Thus, the Ministry of Economy, which should obtain the most developmental resources according to the logic of the development objectives, is in the express subjection of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and the Ministry of the Environment. In a political sense, this means that SLS can significantly co-finance its local roads and 'candelabra' as well as something bigger. For example, warm in Celje, which brings the possibility of bragging and political peaks at the elections for the client of the Mayor of Celje and, of course, a hole in the budget for all Slovenian taxpayers. The funds for the economy should have been realised or used long ago on the basis of calls for projects made at the Ministry of Economy following a decision of the Government of 7.12.2006. However, Mrs Gorišek, who is responsible for the implementation of projects in Slovenia, has done nothing. I ask the President of the Government: Is it perhaps the sabotage of the work of Minister Visiak by officials under any party directive? But I also have a legitimate question: Are you familiar with the current situation, Mr President of the Government? Are you going to send in an inspection, call someone to the defense, and maybe remove someone else from the job?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you very much for the question, although what has been announced is slightly different. I wouldn't comment on these political clues. However, I can ensure that there is no particular dispute between the Ministry of Government and, in this case, the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and the Ministry of Economy concerning the use of European funds. A national programme was adopted where funds were distributed in grave funds. It was confirmed by the European Commission. Accordingly, calls for proposals and the allocation of funds are also under way. It is true that the European Regional Development Fund is the largest and that most resources are also allocated in this context. It is also true that Slovenia has been the second most successful country since the beginning of February following the European Regional Fund's withdrawal from the European Regional Fund, according to the latest data from the European Commission. And that's what this is about. So, for faster regional development. However, most of these funds are clearly channelled into the economy through these mechanisms, regional mechanisms or municipal development mechanisms. The fact that the funds are not directly shared by the Minister of Economy does not mean that part of these funds does not come about faster economic development. So I have to say that for the first time, I hear that there would be some kind of discrepancy here or that someone at the Ministry of the Economy would even deliberately block the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I mentioned one name. This is Mrs. Goriškova, who is responsible for the Ministry of Economy for the implementation of economic centres projects in Slovenia. But there's nothing going on there. It's up to you. And despite the fact that there are a lot of good, great projects, nothing happens. The fact is, however, that everything is happening through the operational programme for municipalities. And there are also funding for various heat in Celje, which will come into the beautiful frame of the mayor of Celje, as you can see, Celjani, what I did to you. In fact, it will go here for the money that belongs to all of us taxpayers. But one political party will profit. It is true that this is a political connotation of my question. But that's what's wrong. I think we should devote more weight to the economy long ago. The funds really are being allocated. But what helps is the allocation of funds if there is no application of these funds. Development programs are ready. It's the Ministry of Economics. It's not like it's the Ministry of Economics. It's the Ministry of Economics. It's the Ministry of Economics. It's the Ministry of Economics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u161	I would hardly agree that the matter stands because the data show that Slovenia is not only successful at drawing funds from the Regional Development Fund, but also from other funds. Even when it comes to Slovenia's overall success in drawing on European funds, we are among the first or the first group of Member States of the European Union with a percentage that is above average. So if all economic projects or economic projects financed by these funds, as you say, were to stand, then statistics would also be different. These projects, funded by various municipalities and regions, are very large. There are several hundred in each region. You've listed some of them. We could count a lot of them. Everyone can be located in some kind of political backdrop from which the mayor comes. Only a matter would be right if you counted everything. Because it is not only a heating plant in Celje, but also hundreds of other projects across various parts of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will ask the next question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u163	Dear President, Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government! Something about this issue first. In June last year, you said that you were always forced to ask such questions as were further announced and that this was the practice of the National Assembly. Surprisingly, because I somehow realized this, I said that I would ask such a question as Mr Janez Janša had asked before when he was still in opposition. When I sent this as a question, I was told that it was not accurate and that I needed to complete the question. I've done it, and I'm gonna say it the way you got it to make things clear. But we're going to this story now. You started your fight against corruption, clientism, crime by trying to end the anti-corruption commission. And that's actually still going on. So, we'll say, from defeat to defeat to ultimate victory with human resources exchange and similar matters. The criterion of expertise, which would continue to be in words, was, in fact, replaced in meat and in action by criteria of party affiliation, friendly connections, etc. That is, all that I am reading to you now, but I find out the fact - is beautiful to every government and every government. In a later period, however, the three K's case disappeared. In a way, it was erased from this dictionary. And there's a new one. Tycoon. Although it is matters which are supposed to talk about one and the same, especially economic crime, including economic incompetence and the creation of an ethical state of the economy. That's what the species is talking about with the description, last time this famous clean shovel. There's only a few stories here about a clean shovel. I am particularly interested in: What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do, and what measures will it take to ensure the constitutional principle of equality before the law also in the practice of detecting and prosecuting economic crime, not only equality before the law, but also equality before the government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you very much for that question. As far as the committees are concerned. The government follows a coalition agreement that specifically states that it is necessary to strengthen those bodies which have constitutional and legal powers to combat corruption and economic crime and to avoid the establishment of various commissions with sound names, but do not have serious powers. The Commission you are talking about has not been suspended in this mandate. Nor does the law proposed propose to abolish it in this mandate. Don't think anyone's afraid of the government of this commission. But after all these years, you can look at the results of one or the other authorities or the competent institutions. On the one hand, it was media, or very resilient dealing with three rural mayors and some things that certainly do not go to any top of society's dangerous actions. On the other hand, a serious work was carried out by the Government at the beginning of the mandate. First, in the preparation of the legislative framework, this conflict with these dangerous phenomena will be successful. To this end, amendments to a number of laws have been adopted. Some are also ready and are in the debate. There have been human resources reinforcements of the competent services. There have been organisational changes that have made the work of these services more effective. There has been a provision of conditions for training and education for those who should have already dealt with these forms of crime. But that's not what it used to be. I can quote from the previous Minister of the Interior what he said about the competence of the criminal police at the end of his term of office. And that's what this government inherited. That is why we have gone into amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act, the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes. A number of organisational interventions, reorganisations, have been carried out. And that's what created the results that we've been predicting from the very beginning. It is the duty of the Government and also this National Assembly to provide these services with adequate working conditions. And if these conditions are provided and if everything else is provided for their effectiveness, then the results will also come. I think that at the end of this term there will be no one who spoke about this four years ago, shame when we also talk about results. If we provide such conditions, then there is no dilemma regarding equality before the law. No dilemmas. What may now be evident to some of these institutions is the opposite in reality when it comes to facts. The fact that something is happening is the result of policy leaving this institution at peace, working and not interfering with specific cases. Before, however, nothing had happened and conditions had been provided. Perhaps even under worse circumstances, something could be done. And apparently nothing was to be done. So it's very strange that the first half of this mandate has been followed by criticism that there are no results from these predictions. But when the results begin to come, we listen to criticism that this should not be the result of interfering with the work of the competent authorities. The task of policy is to ensure adequate work so that these institutions can carry out their work effectively and in a manner consistent with everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u167	Dear Mr. President of the Government! Surely, in my introductory part, I have not made a public statement to you to this day that you do not do this and that it is not good what you are doing in the fight against economic crime. And also my question was not such, but the question was: How can we ensure, in practice, a constitutional principle of equality before the law? I will say so, at this point, of course, when there are no results yet, because neither can there be, none of these procedures have been completed. And God forbid me or anyone else thinks that this is already the result and consider it a result. That would be a real forerunner. But it is strange that, at this moment, of course, everyone is also on media support, and because, in fact, those who are persecuting economic crime are often appearing and explaining their actions from moment to moment. It is unusual to deal with those who are supposed to or accused of paying bribes. Fewer or very few with those who accepted them. In fact, this is what must be happening in the government ranks or in the ministerial ranks, in the ministries. After all, officials would not accept bribes if no one offered them, but, of course, if it were not in some way safe. After all, no invitation to tender which is written for the tenderers shall be written on its own. There's a group of people out there. They're employees. They're people. And of course that's where these deals start. Then how they drive, that's another thing. I would like you to answer this, however: How to ensure equality before the law and also before the government itself, that all people are treated equally and all acts are treated equally when it comes only to [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u169	So, I would be happy to answer this question of how to ensure equality before the government if you could tell me a concrete case where someone is not equal in dealing with the government. I don't know a case like this. And you didn't mention it either. As regards the claim that such crimes of economic crime and corruption are linked and that, at least when it comes to public procurement because of public funds, it is not possible to implement them in some way without the involvement of public servants. You're right. And as far as I know, the only ones in custody are the ones who have been paid bribes. So certainly in this case - at least if we're talking about the same thing - it's not possible to say that someone before the law was unequal or that only those outside the public sphere or outside the public company were persecuted. Just because these things are usually connected to both the public sphere and the administration. Thus, in all those who decide on public procurement, the fight against these forms of crime is so complicated. And that's why we need trained institutions and these Slovenian countries up to a few years ago - I hope to say - they didn't. That's why there were no results.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u170	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u171	Dear President! In accordance with Article 246 or the second paragraph, which speaks of a Member being able to propose that a debate be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, I propose that this be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Gulic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. He will now ask the Prime Minister the question of the Magi. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! In addition to equality before the law these days it raises an important question as to how the Slovenian government respects Slovenian public and financial legislation, and in particular how the President of the Government respects the decisions of the Court of Auditors. Let me remind the executive, the President of the Government and the Minister of Law, of the legal and prudent use of public money. €14.4 billion is this money this year. It's up to you, Vlada, Minister. Since this is a huge amount of money, the Slovenian Constitution has laid down that the Court of Auditors is on the path of public money, to remain and to watch out for the legality and usefulness of the money management of taxpayers. In your mandate, Mr President, you clearly understand the legality and economy of your own. Let me just mention three cases. At first, you illegally signed an annex with SCT, with Mr. Zidar, the same one that you had spectacularly closed a few days ago to make a glass palace instead of a cafeteria at the top of Gregorčič 25. Did the office where you made the deal and made the whole Mercator affair not enjoy it anymore? The Court of Auditors found that this was an unauthorized act. The Court of Auditors also found that you have done so much and so many millions of euros in damage to the Mercator business. And these days, an open contract proved that you also acted in violation of the takeover law. For 2005, 2006 the Court of Auditors finds that you are concealing data on public expenditure, not showing the correct state of expenditure. And what did you do? Did you fix the balance sheets? Have you eliminated the illegality? These were all the acts you've already apologized for. You're saying you've made a mistake. Perhaps Minister Bayuk or others do not inform you properly. But these days you are challenged directly. The Court of Auditors has asked you to decide, after the completion of the procedure, whether the Minister of Government, who has violated the obligation of good governance, still has your confidence. Will you act as it has been in Slovenia twice when the heads of authorities have proposed the discharge of the one who violated the obligation of a good master? I ask you, Prime Minister: Do you respect Slovenian public-financial legislation? Do you respect the recent decisions of the Court of Auditors? I'm asking for a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u175	Well, my answer will be very clear. As Prime Minister of the Government, I am obliged to respect the Constitution, the laws and work for the welfare of Slovenia. This is how we swore to this speaker at the beginning of our term of office - me and my colleagues and colleagues in the government. And in this country, there is more than a law on the Court of Auditors. There is another legislation. There is a principle of separation of power. Recently, for the first time in the history of this country and also in the history of the European Union, Europe and probably the world, the Court of Auditors has imposed or requested the President of a government to replace one minister. So she interfered with some constitutional and political relationship for which the Court of Auditors is not established. The interpretation of this Article of the Law on the Court of Auditors in this way means that the Court of Auditors may then also consist of coalitions or break them up, appoint governments and, I don't know, find out now, perform a review at the Office of the President of the Republic. It finds that something has been wrong in the previous term of office of the President of the Republic. And what, then, does he ask the electorate to replace the President of the Republic of this term? If this article of the Law on the Court of Auditors were to be interpreted as having this jurisdiction, then the Court of Auditors could be required to replace anyone. In this particular case, the case is even more questionable because it also follows the content of a regulation adopted in 2003 or 2002, if I am not mistaken, and which has misdirected environmental benefits according to the Court of Auditors. She did not point them in the minister's pocket, but in the municipal budgets instead of in the state. This Regulation has been forwarded by the Court of Auditors to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has yet to decide. Whether this regulation was really illegal will be decided by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court ordered the Ministry to remedy the consequences of this dispute, according to the Court of Auditors. And here the Ministry and the Minister are responsible for missing their hands, formally. And no one denies that this was wrong, that the body should be responsive in the hands placed and that it should not have come to this. But it didn't happen for the first time. And even if it is definitively established, even after a decision by the Constitutional Court that it was a case of disputed conduct, the measure proposed by the Court of Auditors is disproportionate, to say the least. If we compare this matter with a number of others, this is actually the case. However, the Government is not a party to the procedure in this sense so that they can change the Court of Auditors' decision. We respect the Court of Auditors. This is an institution that has a constitutional role to play. It is also necessary to protect the credibility of this institution. That is precisely why my answer to the Court of Auditors, which I sent in time, was an invitation to clear up the formal misdemeanours that have arisen with this. And once we have a formal response from the Court of Auditors, I will also decide on my conduct. In no case, however, can this act be such that it denies the Constitution and the legislation that determines how a government is drawn up. That's perfectly clear. And in this conduct of the Government for me as President of the Government in this particular case, there was absolutely no dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u176	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u177	Well, what you have just said that you regard this measure as disproportionate shows that you do not respect article 150 of the Constitution, which states that the Court of Auditors is independent and bound by the Constitution and the law in its work. If we keep going. You claim that this is something that happened in the previous term. On 4 December 2007, Minister Podobnik wrote to the Court of Auditors and said that he would not respect the findings of the Court of Auditors in six of the seven requests. December 4, 2007. What did you do? After the proceedings have been concluded in the Court of Auditors, the final step is the call of the Authority. This has already happened in Slovenia. Twice. One hospital director and one director of Vodovod-channelisation had to leave in accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors. And the Law on the Court of Auditors does not know the exception that, if ministers misbehave, they have not violated the obligation of a good master. You're making that exception. There's no such thing in the Court of Auditors Act. Mr President of the Government, this is the question: your law enforcement service has done the following; after, in fact, I should tell the Court of Auditors with you, we will propose a settlement, we will not, you have asked yourself, as if the Criminal Sanctions Authority, after having received a warrant to send someone to prison for removal, asked, "Yes, but maybe it's not his fault." Let's ask the lawyer what his argument was. Mr. President of the Government! The law on the Court of Auditors is very clear. You must decide within 15 days whether you will have a minister in government who violates the obligation of a good master. And that's the first time we've had such a minister because we have tolerated, obviously, on your part. Examples in the world are well - known.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u178	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u179	If we place ourselves in the same rank as the director of the municipal company and the minister of government, then that can be the conclusion. I'm going to be an MP now. However, if we are realistic and act within the framework of the Constitution and the laws in force in this country, then we see that the Slovenian Constitution does not refer to the Director of Municipal Enterprises, the Directors of Municipal Enterprises or the Health Homes. But it speaks of the government, the ministers and the relations that make up these bodies. And here the voters play their part before. And in this relationship, forgive me, this article of the Law on the Court of Auditors is without prejudice to my opinion. It is also in the opinion of the majority of the legal profession, the Office of the Government of Law, which is a relevant body in this case and a number of constitutional and legal experts who have also made their views known publicly. And unfortunately, it was usually published somewhere with the smallest possible letters, as in our case. But still, I wouldn't be here discussing it as if all the final decisions had fallen at this point. We're waiting for an answer from the Court of Auditors. I also spoke personally to the President of the Court of Auditors. I'm not going to repeat this content right now. We are looking for a solution that would lead us out of this problem without undermining the credibility of an institution as important as the Court of Auditors. And let me add to this some aspect that we should also be aware of in this Chamber. Slovenia leads the European Union. Two weeks from now, there will be a meeting of the European Council, where one of the three key strategic themes will be not only for us, but for the whole of the Union and also for the wider environmental energy package. If I propose an exchange of responsible ministers at this time, they will look a little strange on this country. Especially if they hear what the reasons are and on what basis. So, even if there were no such constitutional-legal issues, I would have wondered whether to follow this call at this point because I swore to this speaker that I would work for the welfare of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u181	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 216, I propose that we hold a public debate on this issue. Are people really equal in Slovenia? Look, it's Principal Voka or Minister of the Environment and Space, and it should be equal. You're making a call as Prime Minister of the Government. As was the call for the discharge of Voka to the mayors of the Municipality of Ljubljana and others. The mayors are also spoken of in the Constitution. And they followed this call. You're the only one who wants to interpret the law in your own way. Lawyers also say that if the law were to make an exception for ministers, then the law would be written. Mr Janez Janša, on 30 January 2001, you abstained in the adoption of the Law on the Court of Auditors. The Law on the Court of Auditors is perfectly clear. If there is a serious breach of the obligation of good conduct, good management, then the Court of Auditors shall issue an appeal for the discharge of the responsible person and issue it to the Authority. And you are the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister is a member of this government to assess this - to begin the procedure. Is the National Assembly going to relieve the minister or not? That's the next question. The fundamental question is: Do you, Mr President of the Government, tolerate a minister who has violated the obligation of a good master? If we go to the content of this and are fighting inflation in Slovenia these days, it is correct that because of the failure to implement the measures proposed by the Court of Auditors, we have at least 13% higher export prices than we would have if these environmental benefits were reduced. However, if you look at the contents of the entire Court of Auditors document, then you will see that in six of seven cases, the Minister has violated the obligation of good governance. And you could act if you wanted to. But you interpret the law in your own way. And you're saying that the Minister doesn't have to step down because it hasn't happened yet - for the first time, that's not true. The National Odit Office of Sweden has already resolved several ministers. And I won't quote them. I will quote your ethical code of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: "I will act economically with public funds. In case I fail to respect this ethical code of government and so continue to judge that damage has occurred, I will resign. It would be correct for Minister Podobnik to resign himself. However, it is not right that you, as Prime Minister of the Government, tolerate having a minister in the Government who has violated the provisions of the law and has clearly found this to be the Court of Auditors. You can't ask a lawyer from a minister whether he was doing the right thing or not. You must tell the National Assembly whether you support and tolerate mismanagement. This is your constitutional task. And stay away from that one. I ask for a discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u182	Thank you. On the proposal by Member Milan M. Squikel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. She will now, as the last one, raise a question of the delegation to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mrs Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! My question concerns the latest developments in Slovenia, which have surprised both the public and the actors themselves. In Slovenia we are witnessing major investigations in the field of economic crime. According to information made available to the public, there are supposed to be irregularities in some of the public calls for infrastructure construction. For years there have been talk of alleged irregularities in the construction of highway sections and other state-funded projects. Apparently, law enforcement authorities are also willing to face major cases in Slovenia. Honourable President of the Government: How do you comment on alleged irregularities, variations in prices and construction deadlines, such as highway sections, hospitals? I am also thinking of the last highway section near Trebnje, where the calls were repeated, stalled the construction, inspired it. After all, they may say that they are also indirectly responsible for numerous deaths on an overloaded fast road. However, the same actors always appear in these cases. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u185	Thank you so much for asking. Before I answer that question, I will also answer these statements by Mr Squeak, because he abused the Rules of Procedure and asked something that I cannot answer. The fact is that this article of the Law on the Court of Auditors, referred to by Mr Cwickl, in Article 29, states that "if such an irregularity is established, then the Court of Auditors shall first issue an appeal to the authority which may carry out it and then to the authority which initiates the discharge procedure". In this case, the President of the Government is not the one who relieves ministers, but the Council of State does. If the opposition considers that this does not begin, or if it thinks that the President of the Government should do so, but does not do so, it can, by its 10 signatures, apply for a discharge. He may also file a constitutional indictment if he considers that the Minister has so violated the law or the constitution. None of this has happened, though strong words are used. In view of this last question, I can say that, after all that has been going on or what has happened, it is not possible to get rid of the impression that the construction of some infrastructure facilities in Slovenia has been too expensive in the last 15 years, that due to inadequate, usually overpriced offers, the highest tender price, and which were also very close to the sums, repeated calls, blackmails, time-consuming orders, and, of course, much delays in the construction of motorways, in facilities that are also otherwise essential or vital to people in Slovenia. Let's say this is the Oncology Institute, the Pediatrics Clinic, and so on. In all of these stories, more or less of the same suppliers or the same operators appear. Many times, one of the Members who asked earlier must also be attached here. There are also suspicions that things are more related and intertwined. During this term of office, the Government has already met for the first time in this term. A lot of efforts have been made to clear things up. There have been legal, human resources changes in very important institutions. And Vladi, at last. I think we've been through this once this practice has finally stopped. Of course, not everything is in the hands of the executive. There are other branches of government that must ensure that the laws apply equally and that the taxpayer's money is spent usefully. Among other things, the Court of Auditors mentioned above. Unfortunately, it was on this segment that we missed some more activity of this institution. Let us also remember the story of a few years ago when one of the - I think - members of the Court of Auditors were replaced because he was trying to do something in the direction of clarifying these things. As a result, this activity carried out by the Government in this mandate, in particular when it comes to training competent people working in competent institutions, after providing material conditions for work, organisational conditions for work, cooperation and transfer of experience by foreign institutions, has created conditions when fighting these phenomena is now possible and when suspicions can also be clarified and whether they hold or not. And in this regard, of course, it is also necessary to take into account that one of the measures that can ensure that tax money is also better used in this segment is a greater opening of offers for the provision of these services outside. Not only to be confined to the home yard. Speaking in the national interest in this case is the most expensive thing for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you. We have thus concluded with the questions put to the President of the Government and are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the previous meetings of the assembly. First, the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, will answer Mr Mir Petk's question regarding the functioning of the Slovenian Development Society. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! DSU or Advisory and Management Society d.o.o. is an economic company which has been established in the past in previous mandates in accordance with the Company Act. It has its own administration and control authorities and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia owns all of this. He owns this company 100%. In fact, it is the successor to the so-called Transformation Agency and then to the Slovenian Development Company, the Restructuring and Privatisation Agency. All works, everything that has happened, should be done on the basis and in accordance with the ownership transformation programmes adopted by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Development Society and the Management Board of the Fund. Regarding the sale of companies mentioned in the question of the honourable Mr Mir Petk, namely the timber factory of the furniture of Pameče d.o.o., the wood factory of the invert panels Otiški Vrh and the wood saw Otiški Vrh, should not be subject to the law on the completion of ownership of the privatisation of legal persons owned by the SRD. That's why you can't find any information about them in the DSU reports. However, the DSU only carries out its duties under the law and can therefore also report on these matters as follows. First of all, the contract of 23.1.2001 was concluded in notary form between Lesna, a timber company d.d. or the Slovenian Development Society as separators. That's what they call salesmen, and Illyrik Fintrade d.o.o. as the taker. In point one, four of the contracts is Iilirika Fintrade d.o.o. undertake to invest in companies subject to the contract in the next two years for the purposes of ecology, to modernise production and social programmes. By contract is this company, Illyrik Fintrade d.o.o. to report, at the invitation of the Slovenian Development Company, on the performance of its obligations. The contract also provides that, in so far as it is established that the buyer does not comply with its obligations, the seller shall be entitled to claim the amount of uninvested investments in the account of the reduced purchase price for the shares sold. Since all the powers of the Slovenian development company in the area of property transformation have been transferred to the DSU, the DSU has also taken over control of the implementation of the provisions of this sales contract. The DSU, after taking over its powers, invited the buyer, Iliriko Fintrade, to report in writing on the implementation of its obligations. A similar request was made on 20.11.2007 by the bankruptcy manager Lesna Lip d.d. In bankruptcy. In a reply received by DSU on 4 December 2007, Ilirik Fintrade’s buyer explained that they only participated in the sale as a financial intermediary by order and for the account of the final acquirer, Prevent Global d.d., and that all the rights and obligations under the contract were transferred to them or upon their order to Prevent Les. The DSU replied by letter of 6.12. that the seller did not give consent for the transfer of contractual rights and obligations, as well as that Ilirik Fintrade did not require that. In accordance with Article 177 of the Bond Code, the debtor may transfer his debt to another debtor only with the prior consent of the creditor. However, under Article 122 of the Bond Code, a party may transfer its rights and obligations from a contract to a third party only if the other party so agrees. Therefore, since no such agreement has been given, the transfer of obligations is without legal effect. Therefore, in this letter, the DSU reiterated its call on Ilrik Fintrade to report on the implementation of its obligations under point 1.4 of the Treaty. On 13.12., it was DSU d.o.o. informed that the undertaking and contracts have been fulfilled by Prevent Les. As evidence, a report of the effective takeover of Prevent Global of 11.12., on the fulfilment of its obligations, was submitted. With regard to clarifying the requirement of who actually fulfilled the obligations of the contract, the meeting was held on 13.12.2007, where it was agreed that by 10 March 2008, an economic study of investments under the contract would be prepared in the coming days, which would be reviewed by an independent economic expert. Therefore, to conclude, DSU has consistently taken care of the implementation of the contracts. And in the case of non-execution of contracts, it will propose measures. While the Ministry of Finance - as already mentioned - does not have to report on this, it does report to its supervisory board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u188	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I accept your answer and thank you very much. However, I would like to mention that Lesna's debt to the SRD was several times higher than that of the purchase, whatever the settlement was. And whatever we're turning this story around, the small stockholders ended up being tricked. However, around 1200 of them have also filed criminal charges against both the Lesna administration and the SRD in 2003. Of course there's no epilogue. The forest is in bankruptcy. And small shareholders, as I said, are kind of screwed. If we look at the audit report on the viability of the SRD in 1997 and by 2002 and the report was issued on 18 June 2004, we can see some interesting findings. The auditors then found, for the first time, that the SRD had unregulated and incomplete documentation, that the SRD had not analysed the reasons why a certain number of companies went bankrupt and that the project managers accompanying the individual projects were monitoring them on a different scale, unevenly and more in their opinion. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already decided and adopted a decision on the regular liquidation of the SRD in this mandate and has then stopped this decision or liquidation. And I'm interested in Mr. Secretary: why is that? What is the cause of the liquidation on the one hand, the winding-up decision on this suspension of this decision? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u190	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Actually, that's what I'd say. As far as you are concerned as I mentioned in my reply, we do not know why this sale was not included in the past, nor was the subject of the Property Act. We don't really know. And it is true that since this was not recorded in that law, the sale of these companies, then the SRD as a follower, it is said, has no obligation to report it every three months to the National Assembly. That's why you didn't find this in those reports. But I'm going to commit myself to getting the supervisory council involved, and I'm going to explain these things. But as for why the destruction of DSU changed, why we stopped it. Because we have imposed new obligations on this company DSU concerning property owned by the Republic of Slovenia and we are solving certain things through this institution. Otherwise, the continuation of the obligations it has, I do not see that it is in any way at risk. In any way, as I have said, I will pledge that the Supervisory Board will include all these reports and give a more accurate answer to this question that you have now asked me in this second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u192	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u193	Yeah, that's right. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for that additional answer. But I think it's pretty complicated. And with questions and answers in this context, we cannot get all the answers. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I would suggest that we also discuss the Minister's reply and that we may then have more time to answer not only any other question specifically raised in this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u194	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Mir Petk to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Now the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, will answer Mr Ivan Jelen's question about the New Bank of Maribor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Regarding the sale of the New Bank of Maribor, I provide you with the following explanations. The offer to small investors between 19 and 27 November 2007 was made by allowing them to tender for the subscription of shares by stating the desired amount of investment up to a maximum of EUR 50,000 and paying the desired amount no later than two working days after the award of the share contract. However, investors who awarded shares contracts either on 26 or 27 November had to pay the desired amount of investment by 27.11 at the latest. Payments after expiry of the deadline were not taken into account. Small investors paid the desired amount for shares within that period in accordance with international business practice in such tenders to the public and in order to ensure the effective execution of the sale of shares to small investors. However, it should be pointed out that all the terms and conditions of the offer were clearly set out in the prospectus for the offer of shares of the New Bank of Maribor in public, where it was explicitly stated that any surplus of the amounts paid to investors would be reimbursed by 12 December 2007 at the latest. In fact, surpluses were reimbursed earlier than mentioned in the prospectus, already on 6.12.2007. However, the offer to well-educated investors from 19 to 29 November took place in such a way that they could demonstrate interest. This is the number of shares that are ready to purchase and price within a predetermined range, by which they were willing to purchase shares for purchase at the bank's headquarters. In doing so, well-educated investors should not have deviated from their expressed interest. The selected institutional investors had to pay the shares within three days of the notification of the allocation of shares. As mentioned above, well-educated shareholders paid only after receiving the notification of the allocation of shares. However, they should not have deviated from their expressed interest. In the event of non-payment of shares, the Republic of Slovenia would thus have a request to comply with them. In the course of the sale process, all selected well-trained investors settled the purchase of shares according to the prospectus for the offer of shares of the New Bank of Maribor, which was provided to the public. In the course of the sale process, the Republic of Slovenia received a purchase of EUR 157,666,392 from well-educated investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u196	Thank you. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, will answer Mr Sam Bevik's question about cooperation between the Slovenian and Austrian Governments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to this question, I can say the following: First, something small about bilingual local inscriptions in Austria-Koroška. I don't think I have to prove that caring for the Slovenian minority is the traditional priority of Slovenian foreign policy, as is the result of the last Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We have a comprehensive, bilateral relationship with Austria. In these relations, our many discussions are an important element that we continue to highlight. Of course, in the European Union and among friendly countries, there are open issues and problems in the spirit of friendship, good neighbourly co-existence and cooperation. So we have a regular dialogue with the Republic of Austria. Very intense dialogue. And at all possible political levels, we consistently advocate the respect and exercise of the rights of the Slovenian minority. This comes from many of our documents, records, of course also international legal and Austrian domestic legal documents, documents relating to the protection of human rights, the protection of minorities and so on. For example, here is the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, here is the Austrian State Treaty, the legislation of the Republic of Austria, the judgement of the Constitutional Court of Austria and so on. We will continue with such a policy in the future. I am sorry, and we are probably all sorry that after last year's failed attempt by Austrian Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer, there has been a stagnation in Austria's internal policy to resolve this issue. In fact, I do not think that there has ever been such a favourable objective situation and circumstances to achieve a good solution, a lasting solution. We have a good relationship, like I said. We have a wide range of cross-border cooperation. We have a common Schengen area, we have growing European integration. I think we should take advantage of that. Above all, the expansion of the Schengen area puts our minority in a completely new position. I'd say that in a completely different and significantly better position than she's ever had before. No more border controls, no more physical borders between countries. Slovenians are taking part in life in Slovenia, as are all Slovenian citizens. Like all other Slovenians. Secondly, what I would like to say about the Slovenian Council in place of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This Council was established on 13 July 2006 and has met several times. For example, he first met in January 2007. We have developed the work of this world. There are different committees of this world. Committee on Status and Legal Affairs and so on, Committee on Economic Cooperation, Committee on Culture, Education and Conservation of Slovenian Language. It is envisaged that these committees should meet whenever necessary. When it's necessary. The last thing I would like to say on this issue is that we, of course, take the Austrian State Treaty as a contract in which we are participating and are considered to be the successor of the Austrian State Treaty. We consider ourselves a state protector of the Slovenian minority in the Republic of Austria. The notification of this contract is always possible. But right now, I don't think she makes any sense. This is a complex international legal issue that has been continuously and carefully monitored and studied in our country with appropriate political and professional sensitivity. There will be no misunderstanding. Let me say it one more time. We have a regular dialogue with the Republic of Austria on minority issues, and the Republic of Austria recognises Slovenia as an interlocutor on issues of the rights of the Slovenian minority, as set out in the Austrian State Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u198	Thank you. You want a supplement, please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Minister, for answering my January question. In view of why I have decided on this issue several times before; in 2005 to the President of the Government, in January 2006 for the first time and this third time on this subject. Directly after the new year, a delegation of the National Council of the Croat Slovenes was in the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats in the National Assembly, which explicitly communicated to our Group of Members, and I think they also visited other Members' groups, that they are not satisfied with the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this issue and, in particular, with regard to the question of bilingual topography in Koroška. Together, we have found that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should place this issue of bilateral relations between Slovenia and Austria on the top of its priorities, so that I think we could be more successful in solving this issue. In fact, at the very end of January or somewhere in the second half of January, you said in one of the statements that this could be a relative issue and that it had a local character and that it would be resolved sooner or later. With regard to the Council for Slovenians in place, I would say that this is the consultative body of the President of the Government, which has indeed been established, but has met in two years, as I know, only once, at the founding session. And we were also reminded of this by the delegation of the National Council of Korean Slovenians. So I'd appeal to the government if he set up a body to keep this body active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Member! I have listened carefully to what you have said, and I am aware that, especially when it comes to minority issues, when it comes to relations between the Republic of Slovenia, its Government, the foreign ministry and some minority organisations, there is an easy misunderstanding, a moment of weakness or a moment of discouragement. But I would like to inform you, or I would like to tell you how else to say that these are things that are going in the right direction. The processes are going in the right direction. After all, that Slovenians can live together, Slovenians in Austria, Koroška, together with Slovenians in Slovenia, to participate together, so to speak, in the same activities, that they will be together in the same processes, that is great progress. I think that things are going to be improved, that things will always be better, that our minorities will feel less and less isolated, less and less isolated. On the contrary, they will become the centre of Slovenian national events, our culture, ultimately economies, the European Union and so on. The dissatisfaction is being corrected, in my opinion. Of course, some minority leaders must also be understood, who in these new times also see some challenges for their own position. As for my statement you made. What I was going to say: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be stinging, it cannot be busy, it cannot go into confrontation with some country chief; this would probably bring this country's chieftain great satisfaction. Personally, and our Government, I would say, we do not want to do this satisfaction to someone who has problems with his policy to the Slovenian minority. For this reason, I say, the Slovenian government is talking to the Danish government, the Ljubljana government is talking to the Danish government, not with local authorities, local authorities in Celovac. That's actually all I wanted to say with that statement and I'm asking you nicely, I hope you know me enough to believe that I didn't want to say anything else. It is not a matter of underestimating the problem, it is that we do not want to create an advertisement or a better position for someone whom we consider to be unworthy of this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr Rupel will now answer Mrs Majde Shirca's question about diplomatic practice. Another question to which you owe the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to your question, which I have carefully read and with a lot of what is also written there, I would like to say the following. We have had many international contacts, diplomatic contacts, at many levels in preparation for the Presidency of the European Union. In order to be able to carry out our work properly in order to be able to chair the European Union, the General Affairs and External Relations Council, we have organised a number of meetings in the Ministry with representatives of many governments, many administrations and minutes of these meetings, or all that is gathered in these discussions, is the material for our work. This is the material for our internal operations. In the second half of 2007, this is somewhere between October and December, Slovenian diplomats held the most such talks. To a large extent, ambassadors were responsible, and many of the talks were also held by diplomats from our ministry who personally visited some foreign countries, received their representatives at the premises of the Ministry, etc. During these talks, representatives of the countries are familiarising our diplomatic representatives with their views on the issues that are the subject of the discussion. It's not about any ordering, it's not about any subordination, it's about an exchange of views. It is about getting to know the country's views on some of the issues. When it came to the United States of America, we wanted to know what the views of this country were on the various problems we have in international life, Kosovo, Serbia, the Middle East, Iran, etc. And the record of these views is one of thousands of records. This is usually diplomatic work and I am sure that you, Madam Member, understand that. The publication of one of these records is, of course, a kind of scandal and a disgrace to the one who has allowed it, who has caused it and who has made it possible; the record or publication of such a record is the view of one country or at some point in the foreign policy or view of a person in the administration. It is naive to conclude from this that Slovenia is subject to another country's policies. That's naive. Of course, it is also harmful and rude and shameful if you want, but of course it is also particularly naive. Therefore, it is only material, which is, on the one hand, a preparation for the formulation of proposals for positions, which are then decided by other bodies in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the Government and the National Assembly, this High Council or committees such as the PSC, such as the Committee on European Union Affairs. Well, because it's about that kind of material. On the other hand, this preparation for the establishment of positions within the institutional bodies of the European Union, the Ministry of the Interior, which is one of the main tasks of diplomacy, normally does not inform other factors. Therefore, the Ministry did not inform the public via the media, but was unlawfully alienated from the Ministry, which is why the Ministry ordered internal control, filed a criminal complaint against an unknown person and so on. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs certainly ensures that it will report regularly to the National Assembly or the competent bodies, in particular the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs, on all important arrangements and decisions in the field of foreign policy in the future, but it is not possible to expect that we, when building a large house, will bring every brick to the editorial board of a newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u204	Thank you. Here you go. You want a refill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you've given such a comprehensive answer. I asked the question so much the same day that, I can call it an affair, came out to the public, and at that time, this shift also got a few answers, but not a basic one. And I might be interested in this one today. Do you feel that great damage has been done with this? How do you assess this damage? The surveillance you've put in place, I understand, hasn't produced any results yet. We're worried, not the first leak, I'm sorry, it's not a confidential document, it's also a confidential document from the Ministry, which gives us a sense that something is wrong within the organisation of the Ministry itself. At the same time, I would like to ask an additional question from your answer. You say, we understand, this is a record of conversations that normally have the status of confidential documents and represent working material for decision-making. But you yourself said that there was an exchange of views between a representative, a diplomatic service, a diplomat of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and senior representatives of the US administration, the U.S. administration. However, I think that these opinions have not been quite exchanged, as we have actually heard only one opinion from the US administration in the minutes. You cannot and must not be surprised if there have been such conclusions as they were, it is said that Slovenia is involved somewhere in listening to American dictatorships. I'd like to hear a lot more, but maybe you'll answer me yourself, what's it like to control them, to control them, and do you even have enough control over the ministry's internal work?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u207	Mrs Shirca, we both live in this 21st century and we know what is going on in this 21st century with information and how information can be monitored. Very hard. And if someone decides to oppose the policy of this country, which I think this case has in some way shown, someone who opposes the politics of this country can do harm if he is willing to sacrifice himself, so to speak, on the altar of this policy and such people, after all, we probably also have in the Slovenian administration. People who have their own political views, who have their own political beliefs and who do not have their own rules, and there is no mechanism that could prevent him from, if true, saying that he is in a negative mood towards our country, our people, that he will not just publish it or put it into circulation, or do harm to this government, or to this country, or to this nation. I don't think there's any way to stop it, nor do we have to prove it. But not to be misunderstood, I think it has been proven so far that the theory that Slovenia would be subject to influence, the fate of another country, that this fear has already been rejected, or that it has already proved that it does not. As you recall in that text, which should never have been published, because it was one brick from the building, in that text it was said that Slovenia would first recognise Kosovo; as you can see, Slovenia was probably not the first to recognise Kosovo; it was that sublime, supposed to be completely wrong. But, look, the damage is caused, but the damage cannot be avoided, but the damage must be limited. There's no way to avoid harm if people are bad. People are bad, and we also have some bad ones to shake off, but according to our legislation and our rules, sometimes it is difficult. I ask you to take the words of my government and government representatives, the Ministry, as you can count on. And if you want to embalm with Slovenian foreign policy, polypolize with me, polypolize with us, deal with official documents, not with bricks that some evil man took to some place where they shouldn't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u208	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u209	This procedural proposal was not meant, but in fact, the Minister himself put it in my mouth. You're saying, "If you want, you can argue with me." You're right, we want to, at least I want to ask you a question that needs to be answered, that needs to be polished. That is why I am exercising the business right to do so, especially because you yourself have stated that you are facing bad people, internal enemies within the ministry, who, yes, someone decides to do harm, harm if they are bad, people are bad, we cannot shake them off because the labour legislation is such, and so on. Well, that's your problem, which you'll obviously have to solve, even though they don't give you that option, but you obviously know who it is and what context it's in. It is only right that this is being discussed. After all, as far as the recognition of Kosovo is concerned, months ago, I do not know exactly if it was months ago, but surely Slovenia had a different approach to it once. The Prime Minister himself said when we, when Slovenia - as soon as possible - might be the first to recognise Kosovo. Thank God, or I'm not saying that because of this affair, not at all, which is not a "lopa" affair, but an information affair, you say, the inability to control information within the 21st century, has nevertheless reflected and perhaps also resulted in different decisions on the visa of recognition of Kosovo by Slovenia, future, possible, but when it will certainly not be among the first. In short, please listen to my business proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u210	Thank you. The proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mrs Majde Širca, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to her question, will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We now turn to the questions put to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Iztok Jarc. First, he will answer Dr Mitje Slavinc's question about payments for agricultural policy measures. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for asking, too. Therefore, the issue concerned alleged delays in the payment of so-called subsidies for 2007. First of all, I would like to say that, formally speaking, for so-called direct payments or ECO 0 payments are legal deadlines and normal practice for these payments between 1 December of the current year, this is the case in 2007 and 30 June of the following year, that is to say in 2008. For OMD measures, this is the case for a limited-factor area and for environmental payments even one plus two, this is said two years after these applications were submitted for subsidies. I would like to say that the payment of the subsidies is already under way and that so-called OMD payments are going to take place and will be paid within a few days. It is said that payments will also be paid at the beginning of March, and decisions will be made for the change. In mid-March, however, we will start issuing decisions and payments for so-called direct payments. Together, some 270 million euros will be paid by the end of June. I would like to say that this is the first time that the National Assembly has approved a large enough budget to essentially execute these payments during this period that I have stated. Last year, however, payments were made for the whole period 2004-2006. In addition, I would like to explain that last year is for its own sake for one more reason. A new budget period has taken place in the European Union and, as you know, agricultural policy is common and we are actually implementing it in Slovenia. In this respect, of course, a new rural development programme 2007-2013 has also been launched, which, of course, had to be confirmed and, of course, we are implementing it now, which required some preparation and time. It was also last year, last year, when we introduced in Slovenia a reform of the common agricultural policy on direct payments from 2003. This required a completely new information system. Decisions granted so-called payment entitlements to some more than 62,000 farms, farms. For about a thousand this process is taking place because it is very demanding and because certain translations still need to be done. As regards practice in the past, which is also a lot of talk, I would like to say that there were no payments in the past months of January, so-called direct payments, but that there were sometimes advances but never full. The practice of other countries does not really deviate much from what we do in Slovenia. I would also like to say that, of course, we are often compared with Austria in this case, but of course Austria has a much longer tradition as well as a much stronger implementation and administration apparatus to make these payments, and practically equal numbers of agricultural holdings. Finally, another comment on the so-called nature of payments: whether they are income payments or not income payments. I would like to say that the nature of these payments is justified in the European legal order. The European acquis states that agricultural environmental payments are those payments granted to cover the additional costs resulting from the environmental protection obligations undertaken. Payments for restricted areas are those intended to reimburse additional costs due to the consequences of agricultural processing in the affected area with limited production opportunities and that direct payments are also directly linked to so-called cross-compliance, which is a web of eighteen directives related to the protection of the environment and animal welfare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u212	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. Above all, I am pleased that in this month, how many days have passed from my question to your answer, as you can guarantee, the first payments have already taken place. Of course, I would point out in this place, this also comes from a magnetogram of my question that I did not talk about payments: "For so far there has been a practice that part of the payments for the current year have been paid by the end of that year." So part of the payout, the deposit. That's exactly what I was talking about, and that's the biggest problem, because the established practice was that they were part of the payments, the acquittal, anyway, in short, that they got some money and they could invest it in the next plant, artificial fertilizers and other things that were needed. And in the given situation, when the situation is as it is, of course, every such delay, I also talked about the delay, quote: "I am aware that the formal deadline is mid-2008, but as it were said, there are delays." I know it's not a delay in light of previous years, but that's what caused a lot of inconvenience and trouble. And now all I really want to know is, can the recipients of these payments expect to be actually executed within 5 to 10 days of the individual decision? Because also with these decisions, I have a case in hand when the decisions were written and, say 25.7.2007, sent by mail to the recipient only after half a year - 10.1.2008. Decisions have been held for a very long time, is this the reason that there are no funds available or anything else, but would I really like a clear reply on behalf of all users, or will they be given within a short time after the decisions have been received?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u215	Thank you for this additional explanation. About the withdrawals. I think I've tried to explain this before. Last year was an exceptional year in a sense, because it was just a year and it is now ending this process of granting payment rights on the basis of a completely new system and already knew in advance that these payments will not be paid, and this has been known even in the past year. So, in this sense, a delay was foretold, which was also known. On the other hand, it is of course, but in this sense it will be compensated in some way by the fact that most of the payments, which were not usually paid, will be paid. I mean KOP, SKOP and OMD payments. With regard to this decision that you have stated, unfortunately I do not know, I can ask myself, I promise you that I will give you an answer to that. However, it is a fact that liquidity assets are provided for this period currently being paid, such as the OMD payments. Thus, once the agricultural holdings have been given a decision, the funds must also come into their accounts within the next few days, as provided for in the liquidity framework.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr Jarc will now answer the question of Mrs Pozsonec concerning protected farms. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you too, Madam Member, for the question. As we have already replied in writing, this area is governed by the 1995 Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which provides that a protected farm is an economic unit owned by a natural person, whether owned or owned by a natural person or by a solace, jointly owned by a spouse or one of the parents and a child, comprising at least 5 hectares and not more than 100 hectares of comparable agricultural area. The protected farm shall be determined by the administrative unit in the territory of which the majority of the land forming this farm is situated. The specificity of a protected farm is that it can be inherited by only one heir, under the conditions laid down in the law and the rest are entitled to the so-called emergency share by law. Under the general rules, the necessary proportion shall be paid by the heir who inherited the protected farm and the time limit shall be fixed by the court. Transport with agricultural land on a protected farm is governed by the 2003 Agricultural Lands Act. In fact, the question you have raised is whether the Ministry is thinking that the Institute of Protected Farms, because there are problems in practice, would change. We are aware that sometimes there are problems with inheritance and transport with protected farms. However, we estimate that this institution of a protected farm only produces positive results in a country such as Slovenia, which has a very small and fragmented agricultural structure, where the average agricultural holding only covers 6.3 hectares of land. In practice, protected farms may also be able to be shared meaningfully, but mainly if they are to be rounded up or increased, as is the case and identified by a specific procedure. If I conclude, at this point in time, the ministry does not consider amending legislation in this area, let us say, positive results and the interest that agricultural holdings are rounding up. However, we are aware that there are sometimes concrete problems in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u218	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u219	Thank you very much for a very extensive answer, but this matter is not so enunciated. I've been warned by the office where they deal with these things, that people have a lot of problems. This law was adopted 12 years ago in a totally different situation, and since then it has grown to a second generation who probably has different plans than, say, this family farm. So I think that this law is very, very serious, more flexibility would be necessary. I would certainly like to draw attention to this problem, but I do not want to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u220	Thank you. You want to answer, Mr. Secretary. [[No, no, ……]] There's no need, because she was clear. You owe me an answer to the question of mags. Boruta Saiovica in relation to chemical fruit protection. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. So the question is very technical, so allow me to read some things, information that was prepared together with the Ministry of Health. With regard to the legislation governing this area, I can say that the means to protect against the rotting of fresh fruit are only regulated for citrus fruit and these are antioxidants, namely the rules on food additives, while the Regulation on Preservatives for the surface treatment of citrus fruit lays down the maximum allowed personality of preservatives and the labelling of these preservatives. The Regulation on food additives - and this was also a question - also regulates sulphur dioxide and sulphite, where the most authorised persons are expressed, but this should only be used for processed fruit and fruit products, not for fresh fruit. With regard to the exercise of control over the use of these means, as defined in both Regulations, I submit that the official control over the use of authorised means of protection against rotting shall be carried out by the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and shall also carry out such analyses. The additives covered by the first Regulation I mentioned are also dealt with under the annual sampling programme plan, i.e. in 2006 they took 65 samples of different citrus plants and in 2007 a similar number, namely 61. No sample was evaluated as a food that was no longer safe or suitable for food. With regard to developments in this area, I can say that Slovenia has taken over EU legislation by joining the EU and that the so-called risk assessment or risk assessment of additives and simple substances is produced by the so-called EFSA or the European Food Safety Authority. This provides, according to the risk assessment, for which foods or substances may be used and also under what conditions. In principle, legislation also provides that, even after a substance has been authorised, the presence of this substance in foodstuffs shall be monitored, it shall identify the possible consequences of the presence of these substances and shall also provide for action in cases where such data and new scientific knowledge show that there is a risk of safe consumption of any food. In the assessment of the health risk for each substance, account shall also be taken of the entries of this substance in the human body. The quality and labelling of citrus fruits is set out at European Union level in the 2001 Regulation on market standards for citrus. Member States implementing this Regulation must apply it at all stages of marketing. However, the inspection shall be carried out by an Inspection for Quality Control of Agricultural Crops and Food within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. This Regulation lays down requirements on the quality of classification, content and so on. On each unit of citrus fruit packaging, the species, variety, origin and also whether or not non-chemical substances are used must be legibly and indelibly marked on the outside. Citruses can only be on the market for as long as the fruit still complies with the Regulation on this marketing standard for citrus. With regard to the question whether the consumer is subsequently properly informed of such processed fruit, I can say that the consumer, in fact, should be protected by the content and by the implementation of the regulation which I cited and labelled on the packaging for individual fruit or citrus fruit. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u222	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for a rather comprehensive answer, which is, above all, rather bureaucratic. However, in nature and in everyday life, things are sadly different. The fact is that the oranges that we're going to peel today or tomorrow and the other citrus have been defended more than a month ago, and yes, of course now, they're not actually rotting anymore. I've had grapefruit at my room temperature for four months now, whose size has been reduced by half, but doesn't want to rot. In workshops for gardeners and farmers, you can read that the shells of agrumes are not suitable for composting because they are too processed by chemical means. Then what? These are special wastes, hazardous wastes, such compost is appropriate and so on. But what I'm most concerned about and what I'm trying to say is that people are under-informed, under-aware. I've looked through the Internet before. A few prescriptions. Orange Baccher: orange peel slices, candelabras, in flavoured syrup. Straw cakes with strawberries: lemon peel with peeler cut into noodles. Then the following recipe: mascarpone and finely chopped lemon peel. The fact is that people are still using agrum shells in different ways in the food chain and, of course, this is not right and this is wrong because the means used are harmful. I will not go into the chemical analysis of these substances that are used for this, but some of them are also on some questionable and black sands. Yesterday I walked through two major Ljubljana stores, and I must say that the label in this area is flawed. However, health is one of the basic values of mankind, so we need to pay even more attention to the introduction of harmful substances. And I hope it goes, too. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u225	I agree with you that information is not sufficient. We're trying to do more in this area, and I think you're right about that. The Regulation should, for example, make it very clear to the consumer that the fruit he buys is surface-treated with a preservative or with a chemical substance and that the shell is not edible. It is also clear that these are surface-treated shells, that these shells are not suitable for composting, but are household waste, whatever. I am aware that there is a need for continuous and continuous supervision of inspection services in this area. So, from this point of view, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u226	Thank you. The Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, will now answer Mr Kristian Janc's question regarding the financing of amateur culture in Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank Mr Janc for the question concerning the financing of the amateur culture in Slovenia to which I am submitting the next answer. The Ministry of Culture, of course, disagrees with the evidence that the ministry is not involved in the work of the amateur culture, because the basic documents, strategies and direct co-financing prove quite the opposite. The national programme for culture in 2004-2007 and the new one waiting for a final reception in Parliament prove that the country's concern for the functioning of this important part of culture is great. The Ministry of Culture is closely monitoring the work of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities, which, through central service and 59 exhibitions throughout Slovenia, also ensures the full functioning of the network for professional and organisational support, administrative and technical assistance to amateur cultural societies and groups, and also provides organisational and professional assistance in the implementation of cultural programmes to the provinces and local communities. This is also illustrated by the funding provided by the Ministry of Culture to the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, in our view, significant resources, if I may say, in 2006 833 million tolars [[round]] in 2007, translated from euro, 885 million and in 2008 920 million. So over the course of three years, this increased by about this percentage per year, but on average by 5% of the annual financial growth. They also devote themselves to this year as well as additional funding for the Presidency. The 39th Camp of Slovenian Congregations in Shentvid will be especially rich and famous. The fact that considerable attention is given to and awareness of what the Public Fund for Cultural Activities means also shows that there are 96 people on the public fund's payroll, a total of 110 people, which shows that in this area too, amateur culture is to a good extent professionalised in the sense that, as I said before, when it comes to all support and support in organisational, technical and similar. Therefore, in order to ensure a coherent and equitable development of cultural activities and the equalisation of development standards, the Fund was established in 1996 with a specific law and, on the basis of this, an act establishing a public fund, which has led to today's form, has been implemented. The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is an essential framework and legal basis. The Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities also provides, in international terms, an established example of a good form of network organisation to support amateur cultural societies and associations in the implementation of their own cultural activities. Thus, in the past ten years, he has been established as a carrier or co-organizer of non-institutional cultural events, and at the same time as an intermediary of cultural programmes of professional and professional cultural institutions. The Fund has also been a full-time provider of the co-financing programme for cultural societies and youth cultural centres and the typical operation of cultural societies, the basis of which is volunteering, has also been possible to restore many local halls and other premises in order to create appropriate conditions for the activities of societies and youth cultural centres. But I'll be next. If you ask an additional question, Commissioner, that I may continue to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u228	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Sir, Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Thank the Minister for that answer you gave me. All that you have listed, I believe mainly that it is true and that it is also this information that they find it difficult to challenge and thank you. However, the purpose of my question was how could the country contribute more to these 4,000 companies in Slovenia that preserve this amateur culture that preserves this vocabulary, in a way or another way, from singing, pilgrims, dancers and so on. And here it is, I'll say, a little bit of an obvious to you or the country of obvious that this 2.5% that is devoted to this kind of activity is too little. Even though it's a public fund, that's where the exhibits are, that's all, that's all, that's all, that's all, that's all, that's all, that's all, that's all, that's all, that's all, but the problem is money. These societies, these bureaucratic procedures for this call, the responsibility of the representatives of societies, the procedures and so on, are essentially loving, that they create, and so on, while the municipalities contribute part of this money, the donors are unfortunately increasingly less in culture, even in local culture. And here I'd ask you, I don't realize it's wrong what you're doing. The problem is that what everyone, you're offering today, this society can't live on. Societies need minimum material conditions so that they can also organise something. And it's more or less excluded on their shoulders, possibly local communities and here and there some donor. That's the key. All the rest of what you said, I believe, counts, the problem is only more money for a loving culture directly to these societies dealing with it, I will say, for a Slovenia an important mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before that, I was running out of time and could continue to respond to this concern expressed by Mr Janc. In fact, I do not deny that this loving culture is the basis from which, after all, a whole range of truly top-notch creators in a variety of fields and logically, no one denies the need for such a loving culture and this scattered network throughout the country. And if I said earlier that the Ministry of Culture is investing around 900 million dollars in public funds or that I should fix 3 million 700 000 euros a year, at least in 2008, I must say that, as you yourself have found, the local communities also contribute in line with the needs and, of course, with responsibility and the law that these loving cultures must be supported. So, together in the state 'budget' for culture, this represents 2.5%, but with the contributions of municipalities that contribute, say, in 2006, 1.264.000.000 or five million euros, for example, I have this information for 2005, 2004, and so on. In total, this sums up to around eight million and a half euros a year, about two billion, two hundred million old tolars, which, of course, allows us to take the appropriate action of all these cultural activities throughout Slovenia. It is true, however, that there are large or significant differences between the individual municipalities, but this is a matter, logically, including the mutual arrangements and awareness of those local communities, as well as of the regions, not least, what a loving culture means for the identity of a particular place, what it means, in fact, to establish that region, that environment, also the local community in what is called self-awareness, from which, of course, there are greater expectations. Last but not least, as a result, it is known, this raising of cultural self-esteem, if you want and work itself, even in the economy, I think so. Of course, there is still a whole series of things, I would just say that in 2008, when we adopted the budget and coordinated with the representatives of the public fund we did, but [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Zver, will answer the question of mag. Majde Potrat, taking into account the achievements of our students in changing curricula. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for the questions raised. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. At the beginning of our term of office at the Ministry of Education and Sport, we found it good to include the Slovenian school system or students in as many international research as possible precisely to build a mirror and to assess where the advantages and weaknesses of our school system are compared to others in Europe. We want to create as wide a professional basis as possible for policy-making. Today in Europe, without being included in various research, without taking into account professional, scientific and other debates, it is not possible to lead the so-called "Registration-based policy", which, for example, can only correctly guide school policy. The results, the latest results, various results of international research show that the Slovenian school system is solid or even very good in some areas, but I will try to use some of the results of all these research in addition to further improving the school system in the future. For example, the PIRLS study mentioned above explicitly shows that reading culture in Slovenia has improved significantly over the last five years, even by mentioning the competences of ten-year-olds or slightly younger, but has improved in five years, so that students reach certain standards, competences, in the field of reading literacy five months earlier than in 2001. This is an extremely large leap, and I can say that Slovenia, next to Russia and Hong Kong, is the only country that has so thoroughly increased reading literacy. After this element is ranked among the better countries in the world, in particular within the European Union, where, as you know, after another study, in the last month of the report, education and training 2010 has declined. This was the only benchmark, the only criterion, an indicator where European school systems have not only achieved objectives but not progress. Why? This is a major issue that will need to be thoroughly analysed in all countries. Partly because of the much larger migration and the poor integration of immigrant children into school systems, partly because of this, perhaps because we failed or failed to create some balance in Europe between the growing consumption of modern media, the Internet, the computer technology I fear, replacing reading culture, the culture of the book. According to some other studies, such as PISA, they also managed to achieve an extremely good result. Our children, generally speaking, by knowledge of nature, mathematics, physics, are classified among the twelve best in the world, by some elements even higher. That means we have a solid, well-established school system, a good curriculum. However, the efficiency and performance of the school system are dynamic. The Slovenian school system will be good for as long as we can keep pace with time, step by step with the requirements and also adapt quickly only to this. If we fell asleep for one term or one year, we could do a lot of damage not only to the school system as a whole, but especially to those that make the school system a school system, these are participants in the education and education system, and we want to equip them with the maximum, with the appropriate competences they place in society and in the labour market to the maximum competitive position. In short, these studies remind us that there are also some differences to be taken into account, differences occur both in the regional sense, Eastern Slovenia, the South-East slightly worse than the rest of Slovenia, as well as in families, because children of more educated parents are more successful in schools. All of this leads us to some measures to ensure the highest possible level of justice, equality in the school system and we are looking for appropriate measures to ensure not only the efficiency and quality of the school system, but also justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u234	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listened to you, Mr. Minister, I thought that you would want to convince me that the international research on knowledge standards only started with this government, but later you yourself mentioned that the involvement in research continues from before, and so there are also possible comparisons of what happened before and what the results were before, what they are now. Of course, I expect you to answer what I'm actually asking you in the second part of the answer: How do you explain changing school legislation and changing school plans in the light of the findings that can be drawn from international knowledge research? In fact, it's nice to know that reading literacy has shown that our 13-year-olds are in the 12th place, but we have to say, when we say in the world that 57 countries have participated in this, the world has a few more countries. But I didn't want to talk about it. I am more concerned by the fact that you have started your campaign on school law with seemingly poor results. We have now achieved good results in these international studies. In the professional world, as is said to be the case, we are adopting revised curricula without the professional council having enough time to do so without the practice having enough time to discuss in narrow groups the modified curricula. And let me quote an expert who says that thoughtful school policy requires patience and broad political consensus.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u237	I absolutely agree with the opinion of this gentleman. There is a need for a broader consensus that the school system can advance and achieve its objectives. As far as the success of our children is concerned, it is necessary to say that the OECD includes a package of the most developed countries in the world, and some join together, so that we can safely say that our children are among the best, not only in the OECD countries, but also in the world. Because they compare to the best. I would like to point out that we were actually involved in the PURS and TIMMS before, but we also later joined TIMMS-Advanced, PISA and some research and comparisons, which are still in some other studies, such as Education at aGlance, as well as some others. This will be the last interim report. A language indicator is being prepared and I would like ours to be included in everything that is possible. I know this is part of the effort, this monitoring, the constant external evaluation, but without it, it is also politically tiring, frankly, some ministers in Europe, who are skeptical, do not want to compare their results in particular areas, precisely because this is a politically very delicate matter. However, if there are no comparisons, you do not really know where you are, whether you are comparable, whether you are competitive or not. So if there's no comparison, it's hard to estimate your quality. That is why, as long as we have an impact on school policy formulation, we will insist that we are involved in as many broad research as possible. These studies certainly have an impact on the design, the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia has them, the Commissions concerned, either at the Institute or at the RIC, where these studies are subject-matter, seniority and so on. And here the honourable Member acts a few hundred people, a few hundred people, not a narrow group, where curicules can be formed. I don't have a look, for example, at any of the subjects' curiosities, how it's being renovated, because the experts are there and they're working really well. For a year and a half, they've been working on changing the curriculum of curricula, and that's a permanent task. I don't believe it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that any minister will have time to deal with these things because there are many things, this is the true pyramid of professional workers, experts, scientists dealing with these matters. [[...]] Please don't give me some things that, for the first time, I'm not qualified, but secondly, I don't have time to deal with them. However, I trust the commissions, which are professionally composed and competent enough to do their job, and that is permanent and rapid. As soon as possible when necessary [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Curricules change every few years or something. [[...]] Today the time goes faster and the school system has to be more responsive than ever before.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u238	Thank you. Would you like to, please, have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u239	I will take advantage of the business opportunity and propose to hold a debate on the response of the Minister, Dr Milan Zvera State Council. How do I base that? At the fifth regular meeting of the National Assembly in April 2005, the National Assembly held a discussion on the partial results of the TIMSS 2003. At that time, this debate was a starting point to demonstrate how fundamental changes in the school field are urgently needed. At the time, this was an opportunity for a human rights hearing at the Pedagogical Institute, a renewed professional council and opportunities for a number of changes were open. I think that, given that they have similar experience in other countries, when they discuss the results of the measurement of knowledge, policies and professions do not always find consensus that we are trying to make this debate and also to think about those things that we want to discuss in the morning. It is also possible to discuss how the socio-economic and cultural sources of an individual and their achievements can be linked to the findings of the PISE 2006. In most countries, including Slovenia, it cannot be overlooked that the socio-economic and cultural status of the family from which the individual originates depends on the achievement. And lower achievements from socially less stimulating environments can be mitigated by various forms of assistance to weaker students, ensuring equal opportunities, such as by improving language competence before entering school or by such an admission system that gives priority to children from such environments. And that's what we've been discussing. Instead of directing our school policy by actually encouraging opportunities to equalise opportunities for those from socially disadvantaged environments, we offer in the new school legislation such opportunities to disadvantaged students to leave more room for their entry into force, instead of expanding the possibility of their entry into force, this space will be reinvigorated. I think it is good to discuss this, because we have not reached a national consensus on this, there is no dialogue on these issues, but it is a question of voting. I think it would be useful to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u240	Thank you. On the proposal by Mrs Majde Potrata to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education and Sport to her question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The Minister of Public Administration, the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister of Economy are absent. Therefore, the question of the question will be referred to the Magi. Majde Potrat and Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, and the Members of Mr Saš Pečet, Mr Bojan Kontic and Mr Boštjan Zagorec, responded to the next meeting of the assembly. We are now turning to questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Bojan Kontic, since only the Minister for Environment and Space is present, will you still ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u241	I will confidently ask the question, Mr President, because next time there may be none of the two questions I am referring to. Thus, at least half of the spoils were made available at this meeting today. The second part of the question which concerns the Minister of Transport, I propose or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that you answer me at the next meeting when he is present. We have talked about the third development axis and the fast road in this hall many times. There's also a lot to talk about in the environment that I come from. I have said several times, after the question I have addressed to the competent minister, that in this Chamber I will ask about the third development axis and the backbone of this third development axis, this is a fast road, as long as this road does not serve its purpose. Of course, if the elections in the fall don't cross this plan, but it doesn't matter so much, someone else will do it in the next term. The situation with regard to the connections of the Silesian Valley to the highway cross is very hot. The Minister knows that very well because this case is being followed. Let me underpin the problems and warnings that we have in the Shaleska Valley in addition to all other successful companies in Gorenje. From Gorenje and to Gorenje in the morning every minute, I repeat every minute, bring or drive a cargo vehicle. Although this decreases to three minutes in the afternoon, the interval is three minutes, but in fact it is 570 trucks a day on Velenje roads, which is terrible data and in itself tells what problems people and residents face, that I do not speak the economy. So, of course, I ask the Minister: how far is the process of putting this third development axis or fast road into space? In doing so, I would like to point out that it is not possible to expect full consent. He will not be, he will not be anywhere, and he will probably never be in the valley of Shale. But if we were to count on full consent, we wouldn't be able to win either. There's never been a perfect consensus. There is always a percentage of people who oppose individual proposals and so will be in this case. For we are people very much in favour of the swift road being built, the highway being built until it brings us to our yard. And even worse, if it's nearby and then you have to actually live on that road.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Bojan Kontic, I will do my utmost to continue to do so next time, or else I am grateful for this question of yours. First of all, you have well defined that the backbone of the third development axis is the transport dimension of that. We in our ministry also argue slightly differently that the third development axis is a regional development backbone whose main objective is to preserve and develop the development potentials of this area in which it is placed. One of the very important problems is traffic. You mention in particular what is very encouraging, this excellent operation of one of Slovenia's largest economic systems, which every day, every hour and minute produces filled trucks with very good products that need to be taken to the world. That thought, too, when you said that there was no perfect consensus, I share that opinion with you. It is true, however, that civil initiatives usually take place in those percentages where there is no consensus. And now let me do a little chronology. I would start with October 2007, when we presented to the municipalities a study of variants, the most appropriate variant, along with an environmental report. This was a very important moment. This happened somewhere in Koroška. Back then, to our positive surprises in the early days, it was very good to accept this proposed most appropriate variant, but this silence seemed a little suspicious to us. And the following weeks showed this reality that in a month we received comments from a number of municipalities, we asked for views on the proposed variant, we asked them to warn us if they saw where they saw the optimization of our proposed solution, but we said above all that we wanted them to focus in their responses on the proposals for improving the proposed option, not rejecting it. What happened? After this month, individual responses by civil initiatives or economic operators and individuals continue to rain. It's coming to the media, too. These comments and proposals were all transmitted across the street to the manufacturer of the variant study and the environmental report, as well as to the designers. Why? We want to lead this sensitive process of putting the route into space very transparently, and to each comment we take an expert position and say what this would mean from a technical point of view if one solution, which is proposed, was also adopted. Due to the scope of the comments and proposals, we have already met with all the municipalities from which we have received comments, except the municipality of Ravne in Koroška. This meeting will be over in a little while. What is the essence of this procedure that is not even commanded by formal law? Our ambition is to align the most appropriate variant with the municipalities, as well as with the ministries, especially the ICGP, partly with culture, as well as within our house, as well as areas of conservation of nature and water. We are already very well-coordinated here. When we reach the greatest possible consensus, then we estimate that it would be significantly easier to go in the process of the next important step that we are now preparing for. This is a complementary draft State Spatial Plan, which has been publicly launched for 30 days and will also be publicly discussed. As part of the new law, this is actually a formal moment when comments on the solution are being made at public hearing. With the Minister of Mags. We plan cranes despite the burdens that we each have in our field, so that in March we may visit perhaps two meetings of all the congregations, the upper and lower parts, to go again through the comments and then not say that we would take risks, but that we would be very responsible where possible, to harmonise and propose a complementary draft State Spatial Plan and also consider it in public. There's another problem. Finally, the economic efficiency of the proposed solutions is always important. I must make it very clear that all the proposals and comments that go in the direction of the detour beyond the proposed corridor and propose more technically demanding solutions, from tunnels, embankments, etc., bear in mind that the economic efficiency of the proposed option will move away. This may also mean a shift in the time limit for placing the facility on the market within those deadlines, which we have also discussed publicly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u244	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The deadlines announced by the President of the Government, however, will not be to assess whether it was a conscious deception or a lack of data and behaviour as to how much effort must be made to put the road into space and then provide funds and carry out construction, are already over. Given that you are talking about wanting the greatest possible consensus, I do not know what the greatest consensus is, I would like to point out that the problems with local communities are moving away if the route moves by a few hundred meters, let's say, in the case that was also proposed by Velenje Coal. You probably know this proposal. Some time ago, it was a matter of information that the variant now proposed by Velenje Coal is not acceptable for reasons because it is an area of coal mining. Now the coal mine has responded to these claims and has confirmed that this route is possible. However, I agree with you that it is a little more expensive, but it eliminates the big disagreement that arises from the civil initiative that we are talking about or you have been talking about. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about the activities of such a civil initiative, which, of course, I do not challenge their actions, but the civil initiative is always welcome, but I want this civil initiative to look for a way out and help put the route into space. But somehow illogically, I think it's just opposition, when we say we won't have the road, even though we know that our space needs it. So I would like to point out that the longer you delay, the more proposals, the more comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u247	Thank you very much for this additional position of yours. I also agree with most of your views, Mr Member. Perhaps, however, I would like to say in the introduction that, when the President of the Government announced this very optimistic possibility before, I think, a good year ago, we had in mind, above all, that we would go to the spatial accommodation of the lower part of the road, the development road, which is also most needed, between Velenje and the existing highway. Then together we decided to go for the whole part. Here a few procedural things have complicated us, and we can finally find together that in the transport technical sense, this link between Velenje and the existing highway is far more of a priority from a transport technical point of view. Otherwise, I would strongly support your opinion that we can respect civil initiatives. I myself have been a minister in recent times because I am particularly touched by many of their activities, but first by the government and government services are our intercessors, the mayors or the council of the congregation. Civil initiative should also be a place for communication between municipalities and civil initiatives. I would also like when the mayors come to talk to us that it is they who either sum up the opinion of the civil initiative or honestly tell us what their position is. Some also hide a little thoughtfully behind their position. You'll understand that sometimes such a procedure is very complicated for us, because later we may be surprised. I am aware of the proposal made by Coal Velenje, who has also made public that the route is also possible where a slightly greater consultation is expected due to the consequences of mining, if the decision to take the route there is to make it public, I must say that this solution from a transport and construction point of view will be slightly more expensive, but from a strategic point of view, it will be better, and we will also be able to raise some open issues, which are objectively arising from these nearby local communities, to resolve at one point. I would also like to say here that the Municipality of Velenje has worked very transparently with us in these communications. When we found that good solution, now I will not be advertising here to a member of Parliament, that is to say, a member of the Moser area, Mr President, that we have also covered the ambitions of the municipalities of the Upper Savinja Valley, this communication between them and the Municipality of Velenje has proved to be very correct. Let me get this straight. In the coming weeks, we will courageously make a move and proceed to the gradual preparation of the completed draft State Spatial Plan, which will be made public. However, my business would be very risky if such a publicized draft had been largely commented on by a number of congregations. That is why this effort, which we have been putting into this communication during these months, is so precious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr Kontic, since the time for questions and answers has been completely exhausted, if you want the Minister of Transport to answer this question next time, you will have to ask a new question. Mr Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Justice a question, if you want it, because there is no minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Honourable Minister and the Ministers. In recent weeks in Slovenia, we have read a lot about the sale of Telekom. Of course, millions and millions of euros will go into other hands, and I am interested in when the change in this story will be given to Slovenian citizens and citizens. In a year like this, when inflation is between 6% and 7%, they will lose 7 euros of this money every 100 euros. What's this all about? Procedures should have been completed long ago. On 28 May last year, the Slovenian compensation company made its first return on investment in the public telecommunications network. At that time, the Ministry of Economy of Mr Andrej Viszak and the Director of the Slovenian Compensation Society, Mr Mark Pogačnik, made it clear that most beneficiaries should be paid by the end of last year, which is until November 2007. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. At that time, it was also said that the Slovenian compensation company was to receive 50 to 70 enforcement requests from the State Defence Office per week, allowing compensation to be paid. This forecast has proved to be too optimistic and there are whole areas, whole regions in Slovenia where payments have not been made. The mountain where I come from is one of those areas. This is due to the State Defence of Slovenia, where, as in most cases, the justice system is lagging behind and delays in solving these problems. Therefore, I would ask the distinguished Minister to answer the following questions: What are the delays in resolving claims for each local competent foreign defence department in Ljubljana? How many applications have been resolved by now? I would also like to ask: Where are the key reasons why, despite other promises, these setbacks occur? I wonder: How many written settlements have been concluded between investors and what average amount are actually those people who have allowed the success story of Telekom to actually get back? How many of these claims have not been settled and will receive an epilogue in the competent district courts? What will the Minister responsible for justice do to reduce these backlogs, which are literally taken from people's pockets by the State Attorney's Office, and reduce claims and make payments as soon as possible? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u250	However, you have not yet stated whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u251	I insist on an oral response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u252	Okay. Thank you. The next Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, Mr Minister and, of course, Madam Minister! As is known, the Ministry of Health has recently prepared this, not only for Slovenia, but mainly for healthcare users, an extremely important strategic document entitled Resolution on the National Health Programme. This is a document that will pave the way in the long term, how we will provide health care to all our users in Slovenia. As a key objective in this document, you have stated above all the satisfaction of users and health service providers. As a mission, as another important part of this, you have mentioned the creation of conditions and the setting up of a health policy for the benefit of users and thus the motivation of health service providers. The fact that you have stated exactly the benefit of our users in this document as a key objective seems to me to be extremely important. This ensures that further development of health services in Slovenia will benefit our users. Of course, the motivation of health service providers is also important at the same time, and both objectives are interlinked. With regard to this document, however, I would ask you if you could or if you could provide us with some more information on the following questions: What does this document mean for our patients and, of course, for the providers of these services? What priority areas are identified in this document and, of course, the objectives? On the basis of what documents you have adopted so far, have you also prepared this resolution? What are the essential solutions contained in this document? What stage of creation is this document now? We know that there is a public debate, but there is still more concrete information. When do you plan for this document to be adopted in the National Assembly? Many criticisms can be seen mainly by the opposition that civil society or society is not involved in the creation of such documents. However, it is known that this has involved both civil initiative and society. I want to know: What role this entire audience has played and how it will be possible to cooperate with this society in the future, as this seems to me to be of great personal importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u254	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. Dear Members and Members! The resolution on the national plan is supposed to fill the void that we all feel when we don't know where it's going in the long run. And many questions in the Slovenian health area are also open because people feel insecure enough if they do not know what will happen tomorrow. For example, in the field of health homes in the congregations, there are differences of opinion. On these government visits, when we were around, it turns out that people really don't know how or where. So they ask where the path is and where the long-term goal is. We have set up a vision in this resolution that we must raise awareness about our own health care in order to establish a quality and financially sustainable healthcare system where the patient is a partner. And we have also demonstrated this partnership through the latest legislation on patient rights, where we really want to establish that relationship, and we can reduce those pains that can't be seen from the outside, but it hurts the most when someone goes past it in the waiting room, several times, a few hours. If, say, those who sell drugs come to the infirmary during working hours, patients wait outside, and they don't really know how long. So we want to establish this relationship that will not happen overnight, but at least the foundations are set here. And in these days or today there was a conference on ethics in Brdo, a European conference and we have set ethics as one of six key values. Because ethics and trust are what we believe must be raised to a higher level in the health system. What areas, though, have we highlighted? Surely, here is the emphasis on patient safety, quality, not taking advantage of information infrastructure so far as to benefit everyone, both operators and users. Finally, at the opening of the Oncology Institute, Dr. Drnovšek told me, develop in the direction of this medicine. And also about this direction we had a performance and a conference in Düsseldorf yesterday, because it is also one of our development opportunities to move forward. However, in order to open up the subject of increased control, which is definitely needed, both financially and professionally, it must be more organised to deal with how those missing resources, especially those in the field of healthcare, in the field of doctors, increase how to harmonise them so that we are not under the average of the European Union today with human resources. With everyone else, material, financial and other, we are kind of on average, but we ignored the education policy a while back. About investments and emergency centres that are expected to be created after Slovenia in the next long term, and about how to provide truly more efficient care and also more effective prevention through the means planned. People are asking why we are talking about a healthy way of life without doing anything about it in education and implementation. This is the purpose, we will invest more in this area, so that this awareness will be stronger, because in these capacities we have and will have them, it is essential that we act on both sides, i.e. prevention and quality healthcare.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u256	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u257	Thank you very much for these explanations. You're probably running out of time to give us some more explanations. I would like to continue where you yourself have indicated that users need to take care of their own healthy lifestyles, because this is the best guarantee that the disease does not catch up with us as quickly as possible. However, when the disease comes, treatment is also needed and medicines are an important element here. And I am interested in how Slovenia will deal with this area in the future, in particular the provision of medicines, the provision of medicines and the financial system of health care, which is also conditioned for us to have, as now, quality medicines. Finally, a proposal for amendments to the drug law is now being prepared, where this will be fully regulated in a systematic manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u258	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u259	Thank you very much. First of all, to the first question that we expect it to be a document, this is the Resolution on the National Programme, in the Government in early April. Until then, we will collect all the comments, hold another strategic two-day conference and complete everything that can be complemented so that the document is truly quality. We are also scheduled to present a presentation at the Economic Chamber with the Republic's medical experts. We have already met with civil society, and we will have some in the future. I hope that this document will be, and it will be useful for all of us if this document is adopted by this summer or summer, because it will make it really easier to breathe in this area. However, medicines are the ones for which we have also prepared a novelty of the drug law, because here the power is more rational, not rational, but especially rational, as we must be rational in all areas. Not to pay what is possible, that they do not have the profits of pharmaceutical companies, the three-time profit of the budget of the Ministry of Health in one year, for example. These are certainly opportunities that can be adapted in some way and thus open the way for biological medicines and those that come into the market to be available to the reasonable extent possible. There are also extremely large differences in the prices of medicines. It also happens that the cost of medicines per person can cost up to €200,000 per year. On average, however, we have €1850 per inhabitant of Slovenia. That's how much money comes from health insurance. Here I am talking only about one extreme, and we will certainly have to look for ways, different paths, which in the next five years will not be so far removed from this average. However, I have analyses for the next 40 years, which are about to be done, so that health care and then long-term care will be subject to major changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u260	Thank you. The following may ask a question, Mrs Darja Lovtijar Bebler to the Minister of Justice. Would you like to, even though he's gone? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Although Mr Sturm is absent, I would ask him a question or an initiative. In a public presentation of opinions last week in the National Assembly, it was more than clear that there were major differences in the assessment of the appropriateness of the proposal for a new criminal code. More. Many representatives of the majority and central criminal and legal theory in Slovenia were united in the fact that it is entirely inappropriate to accept a completely new criminal code, that this bill is too much to weigh, that there was insufficient public and professional debate about it. All the contributions made so far have also been very critical of this proposal. Equally critical was the government's legal service, and the Ministry of Justice gave a simple answer that this criticism by the government or government service reveals a complete misunderstanding of the proposal. Two days ago, the Ombudsman also expressed her critical opinion on the content and method of preparing and adopting this proposal. So far, laudable evaluations by the section on the new criminal code could not be heard or read. Except, of course, on the part of the livestock that prepared the new code, or whether it is employees at the Ministry of Justice and other ministries who have apparently received an appropriate domestic assignment and, for example, praised in public the opinions of the National Assembly last Friday. However, the most worrying fact is that in the general part of the criminal code, changes are conceptually inconsistent and affect fundamental concepts such as illegality, criminal liability, obsolescence and so on. We do know, however, that the change of one institute requires the adaptation of others and that there is an urgent need for a strong systemic link between institutions in criminal law. All this confusion is not only theoretically questionable and unjustifiable, but will cause many problems for both prosecutors and judges, not to mention the problem that there is no appropriate theoretical justification and not judicial practice. After all this, I ask the Minister: Would we not propose the withdrawal of this penal code from the legislative procedure and prefer to amend and supplement certain parts of the current criminal code? And since I somehow suspect that Minister Sturm will not agree with my proposal, I would also be very interested to know why he will not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u262	Do you want a written or oral response? Yeah, okay. That's what you say, you get an oral response at the next session. Dr. Mitja Slavinec, do you want to ask the Minister of Economy, even though he is absent? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u263	I want to set it up. Thank you very much for your words, and I expect then an oral response at the next session. Mr. Secretary Magi. I wanted to ask Andrej Visiak about measures for companies whose characteristics are that they are labour intensive. Recently, the government has taken several measures to reduce the negative effects of high inflation. However, it turns out that high inflation is most affected by those who have the lowest income. And so, of course, these measures were also directed. On the other hand, there is once again a link, a correlation between employees with the lowest incomes and companies, the characteristic of which is that they are labour-intensive. So those most at risk and in order to solve their problems have taken anti-government measures, they are employed in labour intensive companies, where the cost of wages is more than 50%. Up to 70% in some companies. And now these measures, on the one hand, we have already heard, will also contribute to the rise in inflation while at the same time significantly affecting the competitiveness of these companies. It's not just their business, it's not just competition on the market, it's often even their existence. If labour-intensive companies are to come to the brink of bankruptcy, this is, of course, because very many people are employed in these companies, also associated with a very, very large increase in unemployment, with job losses. And that is why I wonder: Is the Ministry preparing any measures? If so, what measures will compensate for this impact on the labour-intensive companies? What will the Ministry do to keep jobs? If I'm very specific. The Mura factory costs about 70%. Following the agreement concluded yesterday, they will increase further, which means that the company will be even more difficult to operate if the Ministry does not take any measures to relieve the responsibilities of the labour-intensive companies in one way or another and thus, of course, contribute to the protection of a very large number of cities. We must be aware that there are four thousand jobs on the one hand and, of course, on the other hand, the economic sector, which can certainly work successfully in the global market with appropriate reorganisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u264	Thank you. Would you like a written or oral answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u265	I've already initially said that oral.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u266	Okay. Mrs Majda Shirca will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u267	Thank you very much. My question concerns two ministers; the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture. You've divided it into two parts, but it's the same question. The question, however, concerns the RTV contribution. I ask the Minister: How will you resolve the paradox or conflict where there is a political interest on the one hand? The first political promise was made by the party or government at a time when it convinced people at the referendum that the new law on RTV would bring more expensive and better RTV Slovenia. However, another political promise was made recently when Prime Minister Janez Janša promised that the RTV contribution would reduce all the social threats, thus eliminating it, or lowering it in favour of inflation control or in favour of the electoral year, could still be added. But reality speaks differently, and here comes a conflict or paradox between public and political interest. The Director-General of RTV Slovenia himself demands or thinks about the necessity of a higher RTV contribution because they are not doing well on RTV Slovenia. As a result of the unencumbered RTV contribution in the past, their revenues from this quota have decreased significantly, and the consequences are known. The Institute calls for an increase in contributions, politics, government, I do not know how you, Mr Minister, want to lower your contribution because you are caught in political promises and in an election year, when it is of course good to give forgiveness. I ask: Will the political account that will harm RTV Slovenia dominate the understanding of the public interest that will benefit the public institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question you asked is not the way we got it, but I'll try to answer it. The question you asked is probably not based on media reports, but apparently, at least after the sentences you used, you probably have better and more complete information. You said CEO Guzai asked for a bigger RTV contribution. So that's what he's asking for. Second of all, they're not doing well. It would be remarkable to hear in this House to argue this and that the consequences are known. I would also like to hear this because I would probably like to hear the information you have in this regard. The fact is, and it should be reiterated that the contribution of RTV has not increased in the last four years and has fallen significantly, while the coalition has increased its contribution in the previous period every year, sometimes twice a year. Now it has happened that the contribution has not been increased for four years. And just as the Member spoke about inflation earlier, it has led to significant handouts especially for those with the lowest income. It has happened that, with all these coalition measures, which have fulfilled its promises, it has not in any way, according to my data, damaged the public institution, nor its infrastructure, nor its software design, but has made it easier for people to access the public media and also to public content. In view of your question whether I am concerned, as you have asked on the official path, whether I am concerned that the unchanged RTV contribution will result in reduced coverage of programmes and multimedia services and the slowing down of the technological digital update of public RTV, I must tell you that I am not concerned, of course. RTV Slovenia is powered not only by the means of the contribution, but also by market activity, sponsorship and similar things. For the whole digitisation, which is one of the main priorities of RTV Slovenia and is also bound by international criteria, the requirements for digitisation to take place by 2012, i.e. now and in previous years, and also in this year, 2008 are reserved a sufficient amount of resources to be fully implemented both in this year and in the following years. However, since you have repeatedly warned or asked questions about me in the past, but when the contribution will be reduced, I have therefore clearly replied to you that the contribution has decreased significantly in real terms. And given your information that might be communicated to the public, it would be good to hear if you suggest that the RTV contribution be increased, that your Member company actually proposes an increase in the RTV contribution. I don't think it's necessary to raise it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u270	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u271	I'm concerned that you don't care, Mr. Minister, because I'm worried about the state of RTV Slovenia. I am concerned that in documents that are accessible to all and that have been recently made available to the programme board through a communication on the implementation of activities in the past year, these documents show that more than 10%, if not 15%, of the money coming from us, has been reduced by the people who are paying for RTV Slovenia. This means that some other money had to be increased. And here is the key that everyone, especially those so-called experts from abroad, who said that they should never be a public institution prisoner of the government in the sense that it would fall to its knees in order to achieve corrections. We will not propose in the opposition that the RTV contribution be increased because it is - well known, Grims' law - the task of the Government, which must examine and reflect on the situation, why, how and to whom it benefits. We see that currently on RTV Slovenia the ratings are declining, that greater commercialisation is also due to the need to bring market programmes into every force, that the third parliamentary programme, which we know that a lot of funds have to be invested by RTV Slovenia, is very expensive, regardless of the fact that it does not work, that they leave with RTV because of this, but not because of wages, by the way, good journalists, and that the situation there is quite frightening, and that you should be concerned, in particular, that you are responsible, those who exercise the constitutional rights of the public institution RTV Slovenia. So I ask you, how can you not be concerned?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u273	Thank you very much for the strong words of the Member, when she says that the situation is frightening, and that in the documents that are accessible to all, that is clear. She didn't list any if you noticed, fellow Members, dear citizens, if you're still looking at the transfer. She didn't list any documents, so let me tell you, she didn't list any. And experts from abroad, I think you said, so-called experts. Even if you didn't say, so-called, I think they were so-called experts. You can list them by name, and we will talk about each one individually, because I've had a good look at everyone's knowledge of what they know and what kind of service they've been performing in those years with their grave and clear words, and then they've just suddenly gone quiet when we've intervened in the right places because they haven't spoken on behalf of any institution, but in their personal name, I don't know any weird and sinister information. With regard to the state of television and the documents, the 2006 document states that the surplus over expenditure amounted to EUR 6 million 400 000, that they were surpluses in 2007 and that RTV recorded net profit in 2007. In 2008, however, it says that 2008 will mark the use of new digital technologies, including high-resolution television with an extended format of TV screen, will enrich the supply of interactive multimedia services on mobile devices as well as the broadcasting of digital radio and television signals. In addition, RTV Slovenia has available funds of EUR 45 million, and this year it will spend exactly all the things you read if I am concerned, only in this year, EUR 28 million, and then it will continue to implement all its projects accurately and correctly. Once again I would ask, this is a rhetorical question, because I will not be given an answer to inform the Slovenian public and Members about the documents you have at this time and here that you claim to be a terrifying situation on RTV.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u275	Even in this case, as before, I did not intend to spread this question with the proposal to hold a discussion on the answer, but, as Mr Rupel had said before, this time, Mr Simoniti called for me to have a discussion, I propose that we take advantage of the business opportunity and have a discussion on the answer in which we can also refer to documents, some of which we see together, data that would clarify our concern about the situation in the only media public office in Slovenia, in RTV Slovenia, which, according to our understanding, is no longer a public service, but is in the service of the Government, and will, if not today, make the situation worse, because it is being exhausted. Today, it is still being resolved within the investment and use of those assets that were once invested in Eutelsat shares. Today they are being used, not for what it takes to get, but tomorrow the situation will be as bad as it is today. It will not only be impoverished by the atmosphere, because of the abandoned cities of the best journalists going elsewhere, not for a better salary or for a better salary, but because of the situation as it is. It is right to hold this discussion, after all, the founder of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture is the custodian of these constitutional rights. And my thesis is that he's a bad guardian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u276	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Majda Shirca to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to her question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Srečko Friend asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Mr Friend, you may ask a question, but you have been informed of the answer of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If not, I can read your reply to your question, because it is short: "The question is not within the competence of the Foreign Ministry and therefore I cannot answer it." Do you want to procedurally or repeat? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u277	I'd like to ask you a question because I have this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u278	Please, please, you have this right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u279	Thank you very much. You did the list on the 27th, the minister answered the score on the 25th, and I didn't get that answer. However, the question to the Minister is this: The illegal and uncontrolled expansion of the border of the bilingual area in Primorska is more common as an phenomenon from day to day. In protest, a number of locals from Tomaj, Križ, and Lokev in Sežana also held meetings. However, I have already warned the Minister, as well as the Government, that either they give citizenship on the basis of the amended law adopted by Italy, so that those who had parents living in Fascist Italy can have citizenship, grandchildren and sons of these parents. And finally, we have free kindergartens on the Coast, while our parents have to pay for it, free school and school activities. These are all snacks, lunches. We also have 70% of the television programme in the national programme. It doesn't matter if it's 70%, but it's a disaster that it's not a subtitled Italian program into Slovenian and vice versa, when the Slovenian programme is Italian. Finally, we agreed that Italy strongly supports the purchase of properties to Italian residents with favourable loans, of course only to the border there to Postojna. To really expand, I also warned myself when I illegally removed the board and therefore was properly punished. The table on the village road in Lokva is bilingual and there is no bilingual area. I wanted to ask the minister today, and his nonchalant is great, why this work is permitted. I am not against reducing the rights of the Italian minority or of the Hungarian minority to understand each other. But it must be done, if not another, at least some criticism. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and an official position by representatives of the official authority. [[...]] But nothing happens. There are also cases of Croatia acting possessively towards our territory, but we do not act. Maybe we should write a protest note. And we've already witnessed that they've acquired something illegal. I am interested in this Italian-Slovenian relationship. Even at the official visit of Mr. Napolitan, the enemy was detected and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Improper words. [[...]] I also invited the President of the country to apologize, at least officially, for the beatings committed by fascist Italy in Slovenia, but nothing. What the government will do about it, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Mag will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. Spending. You want to ask a question even though they're both gone? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u281	Thank you very much and, of course, I also expect an oral answer, and I already know that it will make sense to ask an oral reply only from the Minister of the Interior, because the situation has changed since I raised the question to a meeting of the Government at which it adopted a proposal for a law on criminal sanctions, so much so that the Minister of Justice has withdrawn the use of an electric paralyser for the judiciary because of a number of comments made by the professional public and non-governmental organisations, which I no doubt will be a wise decision not to foresee in the judicial police the use of a new enforcement measure which the police in special units have already tested, and Minister Mate has not yet decided whether to introduce electrical paralysers in general into the police. Questions related to the use and possibility of purchasing, wearing and possessing a paralyser are not the first to be asked. As early as June 2005, Miran Potrč posed a written question to Minister Matthew because we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that the use of a paralysis agent in individual rights is due to the consequences that the use of a paralyser takes into account. Nor is the use of this asset entirely without possible consequences, which can even end in death. Therefore, the following year, in March 2006, I sent an initiative to Minister Matei to limit the possibility of purchasing an electric paralyser because the use of a paralyser was also observed in unauthorized persons. I still have two questions to ask myself in this regard, and this is what I am asking Minister Matthew. Why the Slovenian police do not bring this into general use after half-second year, or say that this is an inappropriate tool for use in the Slovenian police. As I say, I expect to receive an oral answer to my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, to the next question of the House, Mr Happy Friend, we did not understand each other. I was sure you still wanted a procedural question, and so do you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Madam President. I know it wasn't meant to be. Since you have read the answer before, as I have asked, it would be right to take advantage of the business opportunity and to tell you that, in fact, the events that took place after I essentially took the initiative, I know that in violation of the law, but also the tables have been set up, and everyone sees it as a "haider" doing. The above facts show that this is not true. I even said that national television can't do subtitles when it's playing the Italian program, but it's 70%, which is kind of a disgrace. This has been encouraged by me to open up this issue, including the issue of eminent citizens. Alexei Možina is a lawyer in Ljubljana, a doctor of administrative law and a doctor of law, says if I need legal assistance and if I will be sanctioned for what I have done, I will also be provided with other professional literature. Sam lives in the area of a non-verbal area and has problems with his ID card, but personally and with a passport he wants to have in Slovenian, they don't give it to him. Interesting. Since these problems are quite something, and I have pointed out this, the Minister has been asked not many times from this town to give these subtitles to television and that free kindergartens are also introduced for Slovenian citizens and citizens or for the youngest users of these services, if they already have this modelly regulated minority. And that, of course, free primary schooling, I'm talking about school and school activities, these are lunches, lunches, excursions and so on, so that it becomes for us, for our children free, for the mother population. None of that. Of course, what poured a drop over the edge of the glass is Italy's last action, which no one has reacted to. In banks they approve without the problem of large sums of money for the purchase of real estate. Italy's purchasing power is higher than in Slovenia and Italy's 60 million and we are only 2 million. I wanted to hear from the Minister today whether we would introduce the principle of reciprocity, equality, and act European, national and also protect our interests. Unfortunately, I have not received this reply and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u284	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Miran Potrč, you have a question for the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. In spite of the absence of ministers, do you want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Since I don't know when I'll be honored to see them, I'll ask you a question and ask for an oral answer. We were able to listen on the national and private television network almost simultaneously days ago, but at the same time, at the same time, we listened to the recording of a phone call between the suspects in the criminal proceedings against certain directors of construction companies, suspected giving and taking bribes. In view of the stage of the criminal procedure, the records of the hearings could only be obtained from the types of criminal police, the state prosecutor or the competent investigating judge, i.e. from a series of authorised persons falling within the competence of one or another minister. Some estimates that the documents were not correct have come from the Ministry of Justice, but these assessments were very vague and unconvincing. However, the problem may be significant to assess the credibility of the services that run these procedures. In view of this, I would like both ministers to answer the following three questions: Have they already initiated an investigation in their ministries due to the leak of classified information? When did you introduce her, and what were the results of the investigation? Is it reasonable to believe that there was a political motivation within these organs? What will be done within the framework of the responsible services to ensure that such conduct does not recur? Can such conduct and public disclosure of important confidential data affect the course and results of the criminal procedure, on which the President of the Government, in his speech on the anniversary of the establishment of a party in Maribor, gives special attention and special merit? Since the oral answer will be in a month and another current question, the following is added: Again, we have learned of problems in internal relations within state institutions. This time it's the state's attorney's office. Especially for the relationship between Attorney General Barbara Brezigar and the Attorney General of State, Mr Boštjan Penk. I would like to know: Is it acceptable for internal relations in the State Prosecutor's Office to be publicly cleared, and only to prove that the actions of the Attorney General in the Orion case are only affecting the responsibility of Mr Boštjan Penk, but not in the responsibility of the Attorney General Barbara Brezigar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Next, I'd like to ask Dr. Slavko Gaber a question. I'm guessing he's not here. Many Members have given up the question of the Member of Parliament due to the absence. We're already going to round two. The only one present from the second round here is Mrs Marjetka Uhan, who has just arrived. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u287	Thank you very much. My question is addressed to Minister Janez Podobnik. In many parts of Slovenia, in recent years, urban building massacres have been happening, as multi-inhabited blocks are being built around villages, which certainly do not belong to this environment. Construction of satellite settlements near the village is permitted. Inadvertently intervenes into the space, the Slovenian countryside is violently urbanized and the unplanned connection of the agricultural area is too large. Many citizens are concerned about such a way of building outside of wall-to-walled land, construction that has not been presented in the legal framework with public presentations, construction without adequate and well-thought infrastructure, which must be in accordance with standards and certain legislation. The expansion of the neighbourhood can only be planned on building plots, which are designated as building plots. The municipality should draw up a wall plan, which divides these areas in urban and architectural detail, based on landscape characteristics and foresees all infrastructure such as imports, electricity, water supply, sewerage. The new inhabitants also need a kindergarten, a school, a health home, a playground, a store, and more. I wonder, Mr. Minister: What will you do as a minister and your ministry to implement legislation in this area? Will you in the future increase the control of illegal interventions in space? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Members, for being here, so that I can answer this question. You've opened up a very important issue. I would like to point out that at times I have the impression that this situation you are describing is a key reason for black construction, construction that is carried out without appropriate administrative permission and is covered by appropriate inspection measures. In our view, the issue you are pointing out is also due to inadequate and outdated people, but we can say that there are also shortcomings in the spatial acts of the municipalities. If we remember together, they were largely adopted in a long-range year under the then 1984 legislation, and they were simply overrun and outgrown by the current time and many protection requirements under the European protection regimes. It is true that later these acts were partially modified and supplemented, but not systematically, but partially, often also by the legitimate pressures of individual investors. At the same time, there were insufficient professional checks and the objectives of the spatial development of the municipality were too clearly defined. In 2002, it was adopted for good purpose by a system law on space regulation. Regrettably, in some of the solutions, he was so that his solutions no longer lived in practice. That is why we courageously went to the new space regulation law, and now we are at a crucial moment in its implementation. We are also going into intensive reform of spatial and construction legislation. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction of Buildings Act has an important role here, and the regulations are those which allow this appropriate legal framework to be developed and adopted by the municipalities through cooperation. It is only in this way that, according to our assessment, the correct comprehensive system approach is for the municipalities to act responsibly and purposefully on the premises. Here I would particularly like to point out that the Spatial Planning Act and its sub-legislative regulations have very precisely defined the content of municipal spatial acts and have clearly laid down rules of conduct in space. We direct it to existing settlements, to free underexploited or degraded areas, and give greater emphasis to urban and architectural regulation of cities and settlements. The interventions to an area outside the settlements are limited only to those which, due to their nature, cannot be built in settlements, this is especially true for rural areas. The law also limits the expansion of settlements, which is permissible only when further spatial development is no longer possible within existing settlements. In doing so, enlargement focuses primarily on those lands that are linked to existing settlements or, in terms of the sustainable use of natural goods, the conservation of agricultural land and the conservation of nature or the protection of cultural heritage are less important. Notwithstanding the fact that the regulation of the municipality's original jurisdiction, which is the right direction, the Spatial Planning Act gives the Ministry of the Environment and Space in the process of preparing basic municipal spatial acts an extremely active role, it also ensures faster and better preparation of these plans through these acts. In these procedures, the Ministry shall also provide municipalities with the relevant spatial information they need to prepare municipal spatial acts and obtain them for free. We are also getting guidance and opinions on the space regulator and which is very burdensome, but we are happy to do so, coordinating coordination between the municipalities and the institutions of land regulation at national level. At the same time, we remind the congregations of possible illegalities and eventually confirm the basic spatial acts of the municipalities, namely, municipal spatial plans before they are adopted by the municipal councils. Most municipalities, under the new spatial legislation, are very intensively preparing their spatial acts, some just before they are adopted. These new acts will address the irregularities and also some of the anomalies that you have raised in your Member's question, Madam Members, also very rightly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u291	I thank you for this information, but I am not just thinking about black construction here, but also about legal ones, which do not belong to the farming environment throughout the country. Literally, blocks are built in the courtyards of farms, multi-housing houses that are not logically part of this environment. It will be impossible to coexist or one or the other. Let's say big farms or farms go on a cliff, picked up by so-called farmers who have the status of a farmer, but in fact have the money, come practically to the building permit in that year, come the swamps and within three months stand in the middle of the village in the yard of the farm block. And people are appalled at such constructions, so I would expect or appeal to your ministry that, by my logic, it should increase control over such constructions. So thank you for further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u293	That's what we're doing. Sometimes in some congregations we are understood as undesirable guests, but we do. I would also like to tell you that from the responsibility I feel for these issues a few weeks ago, I convened a working consultation on the role of urban, nature and other professions in solving some of the settlement urban issues of the Slovenian countryside, and in particular then we focused on the Slovenian Kras, which is becoming a result of the fall of the Schengen, due to the construction of new transport modern connections, as well as due to the proximity of the sea and the very good climate, one of the most attractive locations for the lives of many Slovenes and Slovenes, as well as other European citizens and citizens. It is my principle view that the Krašev should live there first, but that they should take into account the karst tradition of their building and settlement heritage, but that we will, of course, find such ways that development can be possible within the framework of settlement, spatial urban and also natural security conditions. But in such a way that we do not hit the original well-known Karst villages, to still allow there to continue the agricultural production, which is important for the cultural landscape of Slovenian Crassus. Why am I talking more about Crassus? Because we took it as an example, but these questions are also true elsewhere. A few days ago, at the initiative of the Minister for Agriculture, we had a very good working meeting where we opened up the question of how to combine the financial potentials of the agricultural sector in the context of rural development and some European financial resources and the professional direction of our Directorate for Space, and we agreed to further strengthen this permanent cooperation, that is, between the agricultural sector and our sector, with particular emphasis on modern, but, I would say, respecting the tradition of directing the Slovenian countryside. At the same time, of course, we do not remain deaf or unharmed about the issue of urban centres in Slovenia. Cities are known to be the ones that determine the lives of nations and states in a special way. The European Union also has a specific area within the framework of the Leibzi Declaration, which also sets out development issues of great importance to urban development. The questions that you have pointed out, Madam Member, are also our topic of our conduct, which touches on the sensitive issue of how to deal with space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u294	Thank you very much. I have previously reminded you that many Members have given up on the question of Parliament, and that is why it is a mag. He missed the fairowice for a moment and got the word Mrs Marjetka Uhan. However, since the Minister has insisted and persists, I think that of the four Members present, there is no objection to putting up a mag with me. Saiovic sent a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your good wishes. Thank you, too, Minister. The fault of the delay is entirely my own and, of course, I admit it and apologize for it. My question concerns the functioning of the Ministry of Finance. It acts as an appeal body for the resolution of complaints against tax decisions and decisions of the Administrative Procedure Branch at the second stage of customs and tax matters, based in Vojkova 57. This is supposed to be the appeal body that solves the complications that often arise between the municipalities and the tax service of the State. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Finance: What is the real response time for the complaint to this appeal body? What is the backlog in handling these cases, given the time after the two months of the appeals filed? What is the value of these appeals? Article 28 of the Act provides that the Board of Appeal should, in the event that more than two months have passed since the complete appeal has been lodged, resolve the complaint within 7 days of the receipt of the application for an immediate solution by the appellant. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: how many cases are there in the above-mentioned appeal body that have been resolved after receiving the requests under Article 28/2 of the Act? In general, how long have the cases been resolved in accordance with the law or after the expiry of that period? How many complainants have so far submitted a second stage of administrative action to the Administrative Court due to the irregular part of the body? We have been asking for this information since 2004. But of course, I won't keep it a secret, in the background of the mayor's story. The Municipality of Tržič was, I will say, we think, in the wrong way the EUR 264,000 was taken for the replacement of the building land, which is not the fault of the congregation. We were not informed of these procedures. And for a congregation like mine, where we inherited 5.5 million Euros of debt, it's fantastically big money. And now it's about hearing from the Ministry of Finance's opinion, trying to talk, agreeing to know the final solution, whether through this money we're going to make a cross or even hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u297	Your Honor! First of all, I would like to apologize for not being familiar with the specific problem of the municipality in which you are the mayor and my response will be of a broader character. When we took on the responsibilities of the Ministry of December 2004, we soon discovered that there was actually a second stage in tax administration and customs administration, that more than 10,000 cases had been resolved. We have done this by making certain changes. Among other things, we moved to the second level of the tax administration, which was in the same building with the tax administration, and we felt that, if I may say so at home, the ball was passed, and from the first to the second to the first. Now it's been going very well in the last two years. I'll give you the longer report that the professional services have prepared. Otherwise, I'd just like to tell you what's next. As far as the number of complaints resolved is concerned, all I'm talking about is taxes. If you take both of them together, we've reduced our backs by about half. But there's still half of them that haven't been solved, that's about 5,000 cases. Something over 5,000. The number of complaints resolved was 4,107, and 5,910 in 2007. This shows you that we're going a little faster. The things that are solved are more numerical, more than those that actually open. In fact, we resolved 44% more complaints than in 2004. The number of pending cases in the tax area is decreasing significantly. In 2004, the number of pending complaints was 7,126. In 2007 and 4.337. On 31.12.2007, there were 23% fewer outstanding complaints compared to 31.12. That's what this is about. We need some kind of Lukend for this second stage, and this is actually being done. Regarding response time, it can be noted that 5,900 complaints were resolved in 2007. Of these, 54% were resolved within one year. For 45% of complaints, the rescue time is less than one year. You rightly mentioned that the Tax Procedure Act refers to 60 days. But as you know, in these matters, the state is always right. It's not binding, but it's supposed to be. But if it isn't, nothing bad happens. Therefore, our responsibility is also, of course, to resolve this matter and to create as much credibility as possible, as far as the whole procedure is concerned. The number of pending complaints over two months of age is decreasing. In 2004, 6,356 were worth €79 million. Now they've been unsolved for more than two months, 4,562. Excuse me. In 2007, the number of these complaints was 3,398 EUR 396 million. This is 47% less than two months older than in 2004. As I said, the law on the legal dispute in the second paragraph of Article 28 provides that the party may initiate an administrative dispute if the authority of the second stage does not decide within two months and if it does not decide on the complainant's further request within seven days. Taking into account the resolved cases in which both the E.R. and the E.R. were filed under Article 28 as well as the E.R., in which they do not place a complaint within the seven-day deadline, there were 408 cases of complaints filed following the application of the E.R. in 2004, 694, and 606 in 2006 898 and 2007 respectively. In 2004, 174 complaints were filed for silence, in 2005 111 in 2006 67 and in 2007 48. In 2007, compared to 2004, 72% had fewer cases of silence. I must admit that we are still far from what we should be, but the matter is getting a lot better than when we took responsibility. Otherwise, I'm going to give you one more special report now, because I don't believe you've followed all these tables and those data to have it. However, we are at your disposal if there is anything else we can do for a specific example of the municipality where you are mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u299	Thank you very much for the correct and well-intentioned answer. I see that the Ministry is investing in this great effort and a great deal of energy, but you also have to understand, for example, in our congregation it seems in practice that it is now twelve days, which this deadline has passed. First things first thing in the morning, the mail changes if it's something from the Ministry of Finance, because it's just a big money in a story that's going to be hard to understand. I would therefore ask, for the benefit of this Slovenia, if such larger claims, which have a greater financial value or concern the attitude of the municipality, are to be addressed within as reasonable a time as possible. It does not seem right in the family if the husband and wife are persecuted in court, that the congregation and the state must, of course, take action differently than in court. Otherwise, I thank you for your kindness and your willingness and your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u300	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u301	Just for a moment, I hope you don't see in the Minister of Finance a woman who's pushing you because that would be very bad. But the fact is, I must admit that all these institutions, especially the tax administration, operate very independently of the Ministry, although the second stage works under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, they are very independent people. In addition to visiting them, I demand that they go a little faster, but it is very difficult, but I will ask specifically for these things to be examined, because I understand that there is some particular pressure here, as far as this is concerned. But I have to admit, everyone's in trouble. All of these cases do not bring any glory to the rule of law in this area, certainly not.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u302	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the parliamentary questions to the President of the Government, to the Minister and to the Ministers of the Government, thank you for the answers given. I also thank both Members of Parliament and both Members that you have persisted with us to the end. Thank you. Good night. I am adjourning the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
