ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr. Bevk only, France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Christian Janc, Anton Kokalj by 12.30 p.m., Drago Koren, Marko Pavliha and Mitja Slavinec from 12.00 p.m. I have invited the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša to the first item, the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Council of State to the third item. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 19 May 2008. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. We are therefore moving on to a timetable. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're voting. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are more than 36 of us in the Chamber, and I ask that you pay some attention. We are moving on to another vote. We're voting. We are once again inconclusive. That's why I'm hanging up for 10 minutes. We'll pick her up at 9:13.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the third vote on the agenda. Please calm down and take your seats. We are therefore moving on to the third vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. TIME OF DAY - REBALANCE PROPOSAL OF THE REBALANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2008 The proposal for a budget rebalancing was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to present the proposal for the 2008 budget rebalancing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! On 8 May this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and sent it to this high assembly. In preparing the rebalancing, the Government took into account, in particular, the updated macroeconomic baselines prepared by the Office of the Government for Macroeconomic Policy, as part of the 2008 spring economic forecast. This is based on the fact that Slovenia is not a world for itself. We are currently living in a time of less favourable global economic conditions, which also affect our development trends. It is the responsibility of the Government to respond in an appropriate and timely manner and to minimise the negative effects on the Slovenian economy, on the lives of people in Slovenia and on development in general. The government, with the proposed budget rebalancing, is increasing the restrictive nature of budgetary spending. This will reduce inflation expectations and the country's indebtedness. We are reducing budget expenditure in order to improve the budget balance. Our planned austerity policy in the area of public finances has positive consequences. As in last year and in 2007 the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia created a budget surplus of €70 million and 0.2% of gross domestic product. In this way, the Government creates a space for fiscal policy to function without increasing its indebtedness and thus contributes to greater macroeconomic stability of the country and the anti-cyclical movement of public finances. By implementing most of the measures of economic and social reform, we have left the development model of regulation, red tape, imprisonment and inflexibility far behind. Within the European Union, we are making great progress in implementing a new, more advanced development model. Although the reform process has not yet been completed, it will also be a very important challenge for economic policy makers in the future, today in 2008 Slovenia is a country with a much more favourable and advanced macroeconomic and business environment. Dear Members and honourable Members! If I have initially said that Slovenian development flows are undoubtedly related to European or global trends, let me also compare Slovenia with the countries of the European Union and also with the countries of the euro area or the European monetary union. A better economic and social environment in Slovenia is mainly reflected in very good economic results and consequently in higher employment. Economic growth and development reached the highest growth rate in the history of Slovenia with 6.1% of economic growth in 2007. The result is so much more important because we have created a higher base in the last two years, with 5.7 and 4.1% economic growth in 2006 and 2005. Last year, economic growth in Slovenia was 3.1 percentage points higher than the EU average and 3.3 percentage points higher than the EU average. In Slovenia, we thus achieved 91% of the European Union's gross domestic product in 2007 and 22 000 300 euros per capita, measured by purchasing power. Most importantly, economic growth has been healthy all these years. The main factors in the economic growth of the Slovenian economy in 2005, 2006 and 2007 were exports of goods and services and investments. Exports as the most important driver of Slovenian economic growth in 2007 exceeded already high growth rates in 2006 and 2005. The real export growth in Slovenia last year was 13 percentage points and the real export growth in the European Union exceeded by eight percentage points. For five percentage points, however, exports exceeded export growth in the euro area. In the European Union, Slovenia was ranked fourth in 2007 after the growth in exports, while among the countries of the European monetary union it was absolute first. So high export growth has further increased the open Slovenian economy. In 2007, exports accounted for over 71% of gross domestic product, which is one of Slovenia's heavily open economies. Although industrial products contribute to as many as two thirds of Slovenian exports, exports of services have also increased significantly. The growth of investments in fixed assets increases the potential economic growth. Private consumption growth was moderate and below the real growth of available income and below potential economic growth. The growth of public consumption was low in 2007 despite the additional costs needed to establish an external border and to prepare for European Union leadership. In 2007, again, due mainly to the high import component in exports and increased investments in equipment and machinery, we also recorded a high increase in imports. As a result, the current balance of payments account deficit has increased and Slovenia's indebtedness is known. At the same time, it must be stressed that Slovenia's gross external debt is not a problem. Slovenia's gross external debt is the lowest in the European Monetary Union, compared. The real value added growth, which was 6.2% in Slovenia, was 3.2 percentage points higher than in the European Union and 3.4 percentage points higher than in the European Monetary Union. Production activities as well as market services contributed the highest value added to growth. High economic growth has also had a very favourable impact on the labour market. The employment rate of the population aged between 15 and 64 was 67.8% last year. According to the methodology of the International Labour Organisation, unemployment was 4.9% in the first quarter of this year. At the end of 2007, Slovenia had 2.2 percentage points lower unemployment than the European Union average. Among the euro area Member States, Slovenia, together with the Netherlands, Ireland, Luxembourg and Austria, is one of the lowest unemployment countries. Labour productivity growth was high in Slovenia last year, despite high employment growth of 3.3%. In 2007, Slovenia had a higher productivity growth of 2 percentage points from the European Union average. More growth from the euro area countries is 2.4 percentage points. Industrial production growth in last year was almost 8%, while industrial production growth was 6.5%. With very good results, Slovenia faces higher inflation than other countries around the world, as well as in Europe. The main reasons for this are the high price of oil and food in global markets. The impact of such promotions in Slovenia is more felt as the weights of these two price groups in our price index are higher than on average in the euro area. Some Slovenian traders also contributed to higher inflation with unjustified irritation. The average annual inflation in Slovenia was 2.2 percentage points higher in April this year than in EU countries and 2.4 percentage points higher in Slovenia than in European monetary union countries. Overpriced increases in basic living needs have affected the economically and socially weakest citizens and citizens most. In order to mitigate the negative effects of inflation, the government has adopted a comprehensive and comprehensive programme of measures. Let me just list some. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act was adopted, which increases the general benefit for employees with the lowest income. This means that more than 200,000 employees at annual income level will increase between 160 and 320 euros. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts was adopted. On this basis, children’s allowances increased by almost 8.5 percentage points. And we must not forget that these amounts have increased further by 3.6 percentage points due to compliance with inflation. The Act on the Protection Supplement was adopted, which re-arranged the right to a protective supplement. The total increase in the supplement was 9%. The Kindergarten Act was adopted, after which the state takes over the cost of kindergarten for another child. Following alignment with the unions, the minimum wage has risen by €35. And social transfers - as I mentioned earlier - have been aligned with inflation. The government is also in charge of economic policies for stable price growth and action in the next four areas, with all the above mentioned. Firstly, a regulated price plan was adopted for this year and next year, which provides that the prices under direct control of the Government will increase considerably slower than the prices to be set free. And we are implementing this policy. Secondly, for two years now, the government will achieve a public financial surplus. By countercyclical budgetary policy and its stabilisation, we will reduce inflationary pressures and limit the transfer of prices to other products and services. We have reduced excise duties to the lowest level in the EU and thus, at least in part, reduced the high price growth of oil derivatives. Thirdly, in a dialogue with the social partners, the Government advocates a sustainable wage policy so that wage growth is somewhere at productivity growth level. We are aware that excessive increases in wage policies, which contain inflationary expectations, are the greatest threat to inflationary spiral, which ultimately leads to a reduction in the purchasing power of citizens and citizens. Eliminates both the real value of wages and macroeconomic stability and negatively affects well-being in any sense. Fourth time. We've stepped up competition control. The Competition Authority has initiated procedures to establish that practices that do not comply with applicable legislation and good business practices have been used in the process of pricing food products. We co-finance measures and activities to raise consumer awareness of price trends, which are key in the fight against inflation. Dear Members and Members! In the draft budget balance for this year, the planned revenues are increasing on the basis of higher estimated revenues from corporate income taxes, excise duties and VAT. All of this is due to high economic growth. Despite the fact that the planned budget expenditure is falling, the Government has decided to increase expenditure on certain items at the time of the budget rebalancing. More money will thus be devoted to increasing wages and contributions under the Public Sector Wage System Act, where certain wage imbalances, social protection, education and environmental protection and natural heritage are coordinated or eliminated. By increasing the efficiency of the public administration, we are reducing the cost of its operation. We pay greater attention to social and economically weak citizens and citizens. With greater means of education, we create the conditions that future generations will be well prepared for the development challenges of time and that the people who will need the assistance of the country will become less and less. More resources to maintain a clean and healthy environment, our responsibility to citizens and citizens and to the future. With its programmes in this area, Slovenia responds to climate change and the trials that only these put ahead of us. On this year's proposal for a rebalancing, the total amount of the country's projected indebtedness is decreasing by as much as €478 million. The 2008 budget rebalancing proposal envisions €8.88 billion of revenue, 24.5% of GDP and €8.81 billion of expenditure and 24.3% of gross domestic product. The budget surplus of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 is thus estimated at EUR 70 million. In addition to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the consolidated public financial revenues under the national methodology, which also includes the income of the pension and disability insurance institution of the health insurance and the revenue of the budgets of the Slovenian municipalities, are estimated at €15.5 billion and 42.6% of GDP, respectively. While consolidated government expenditure is projected at EUR 15.4 billion and 42.4 percentage points of GDP. According to the proposal for a rebalancing, the consolidated fiscal surplus for 2008 is thus planned at EUR 90.2 million. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to present the proposal for a rebalancing also according to the methodology of the European Union. This is shown in the general government balance sheet. In addition to the four public finances, it also covers all public funds, public agencies, public institutions, the Court and Kad. So, uh, the Compensation and Capital Society. With the proposed budget rebalancing for this year, we are forecasting a substantial reduction in the country's general sector deficit, instead of the initially projected 0.9 per cent point of GDP, only at the level of 0.1 per cent point of GDP. I also cite this time a comparison of the country's general sector deficit between Slovenia and the European Union average and the euro area. Despite significant fiscal consolidation both within the European Union and within the euro area, the general government balance in Slovenia last year was 1.2 percentage points more favourable than in the European Union and almost 1 percentage point better than in the euro area. We were able to substantially reduce the debt of the wider sector of the country, which was 34.6 percentage points lower in Slovenia in 2007 than in the European Union or the European Union average. In the euro area, Slovenia ranks second in this indicator, among the countries with the lowest share of debt in gross domestic product, immediately after Luxembourg. We are therefore building more than successfully on the fundamental principles of the growth and stability agreement, because we have met our fiscal objective before the deadline set and declared in the Union. Dear Members and Members! In the Government, we are aware that only a competitive and healthy economy is a good basis for comprehensive development. In the context of economic and social reforms, we have thus adopted a majority of the measures by which we want to achieve the objectives of the development strategy of Slovenia, which are also the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy of the European Union. The work was quite extensive and tiring. It is right to set up a mirror and see how relevant international institutions assess our progress, where they place Slovenia. In 2007, Slovenia moved from the 27 countries of the European Union to the 10th place in the so-called Lisbon League table. After a 2007 reform barometer survey, Slovenia is in the process of reform and economic growth matrix of the 6 most successful countries in the European Union. According to the same survey, Slovenia is the sixth largest country since the overall progress of national reforms among all European Union countries last year. We have received two recommendations from the European Commission. Slovenia has made the greatest progress in improving the business environment. We have eliminated a number of unnecessary and bureaucratic procedures and have also received a specific European recognition of good practice for the programme to remove administrative barriers. The introduction of "One-stop shop" systems for independent entrepreneurs and limited liability companies represents considerable progress. On the European Commission's post-eGovernment scale, we have advanced from last year's 7th to this year's excellent 2nd place among all the Member States of the European Union. A public venture capital company has been established to direct budgetary and European resources to rapidly growing enterprises. We are also expediting infrastructure. In the area of labour market reform, after lengthy negotiations with the social partners, we have sought a compromise between the need for greater competitiveness on the one hand and the preservation of the social security of national and trade union workers on the other. The amendments introduced by the new Labour Relations Act represent a number of improvements and provide greater flexibility for the labour market. Nevertheless, the social security of employees is not reduced at the expense of flexibility. In the area of public finances, Slovenia has implemented a comprehensive tax reform. It entered into force at the beginning of last year. It has made a significant difference and is also a burden on the Slovenian economy. This is one of the important reasons for high economic growth, higher employment and improved public finances. By 2009 we have phased out the tax on paid salaries. We have reduced the excessively progressiveness of the income scale and thus have mainly burdened the most active labour force. With these measures we wanted and, of course, we still want to, because even more creative workers who were previously overtaxed are being motivated. However, we want to motivate employers to employ more highly educated workers or with appropriate knowledge. The general benefit for income was increased and relief benefits were abolished, which were mainly benefited from by high-income debtors. The Law on the Income of Legal Persons gradually reduces the tax rate to 20% by 2010. From 25 to 20% by 2010 and correcting certain tax bases and facilitations. In their efforts to create a more competitive and stimulating tax environment, double taxation has been abolished, among other things. However, the tax procedure was substantially simplified. In the period 2004 to 2008, the expenditure of the wider sector of the country under ESA 95 will be reduced by more than 3.5% of the gross domestic product point. This is significantly more than this government has written in its programme. We have achieved this mainly through rational and cost-effective use of public funds. We have put great emphasis on the development of the budget. It is also worth recalling that in 2008 projects from the Resolution on national development projects were systematically included in the budget in the Development Programmes Plan for the first time. Further important steps will need to be taken in the field of innovation and research. We increase resources for R & D every year. We are currently reaching, total data are almost 1.6% of gross domestic product for 2006. We are slightly above average in the European Union. However, we are still far from the planned 3% of gross domestic product points. However, it is important that, at the level of resources, we also insist on their effective use and the real structure of R & D funds. As in the most developed countries of the European Union, the private sector will have to play an increasingly important role here. In a developmental sense, we expect very much from the relief for research and development. The taxable person can reduce the tax base by 20% of the amount that represents investment in research and development. The regional component, which basically means stimulating investment and investment in the development of the most vulnerable regions. This relief amounts to, this relief can be doubled and up to 40% of the amount. In 2007, 620 taxpayers amounted to EUR 66 million in R & D. Their numbers will be significantly higher in the coming years, depending on trends. It is this relief that will make a decisive contribution to the progress of the restructuring of the Slovenian economy towards greater technological complexity and the achievement of higher added value. We have improved the environment for research organisations and innovative companies during this time. Funds for programmes supported by the Public Agency for Technology Development will reach €65 million this year. 65% of cohesion funds are aimed at achieving the Lisbon objectives. Under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and with the co-financing of the Government, there are 24 platforms in which more than 500 companies and knowledge organisations participate. 25 technology centres have been established to allow SMEs access to research services. They establish incubators and new technology parks. We have also seen institutional changes in the manufacturing and use of knowledge. The government has thus set up a Council for Competitiveness and Development Groups. Together, they will draw up strategic orientations for state institutions whose task is to promote research and development. Recently, the President of the Republic said that reforms should give space to creativity. This is also the final objective of all our efforts in this area. We are already increasing significant public funding for education. New higher education institutions are being established. We want to bring the study closer to the needs of the economy. By means of Bologna reform, we will shorten the study time. However, students will be significantly more involved in European education. During the 2007-2006 study year, Erasmus enrolled or studied about thousands of our students abroad. We have also made great progress in modernising vocational education, where there is more emphasis on practical knowledge and recognition of informal knowledge. With concrete measures, the government has had a significant impact on the student-student relationship in favour of those who have entered the technical direction where the greatest demand for personnel is far. Dear Members and Members! Economic performance and development are, of course, not their own agenda. Our efforts for faster economic development are aimed at the well-being and quality of life of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, of course, all and also of each individual. And it is with great satisfaction to note that the risk of poverty in Slovenia is decreasing and that Slovenia is classified as a high social state according to the poverty risk indicator among EU countries. In fact, only three EU countries are listed ahead of us. However, when we compare ourselves with the euro area countries, it is the most developed core of the EU, and only the Netherlands is better classified than we are. While this is a very good and important outcome in the European scale, which places us among countries with a strong hearing for socially disadvantaged social groups, in some areas it is necessary to face poverty eradication even more decisively. It is also right to touch on the intergenerational and co-natural development objective when addressing the budget or budgetary policy balance. This is about the implementation of the sustainability principle as a fundamental quality criterion in all areas of development, including the goal of sustainable preservation of the population and the population of the country. We are pleased to note that in the field of fertility, there has also been an improvement in the trend in recent years. In 2007, 19,850 children were born in Slovenia because it is almost 5% higher than in 2006. We are very pleased with this fact, since we have also set ourselves an improvement in the demographic structure at the time of our term of office as one of the central objectives of this Government. The condition of rapid economic growth is also our priority for the environment. That is why the Government is paying particular attention to environmental protection. Over the period 2005-2007, we allocated more than €33 million for the purpose of introducing renewable energy sources and also for efficient energy use. And in the same period, we built a lot of new cleaning plants for the purpose of cleaning wastewater. During this period, €141 million was invested in the construction of municipal infrastructure from the European Union and from budgetary resources, as well as from environmental duties. We are aware that environmental pressures are increasing. Effective use of energy and renewable resources is therefore a necessity. We expect very much from the implementation of the 2008-2016 Energy Efficiency Action Plan, with which we intend to save at least 9% of final energy. Dear Members and honourable Members! If we have initially made a comparison of Slovenia with the countries of the European Union and the European Monetary Union and with the developmental trends on the basis of which we are also planning the budget rebalancing for this year, it is also right to make a comparison of some key indicators in the last three years. Because it has been the last three years that the government has largely created the conditions for today to propose a budget rebalancing in which, for the second time in the history of this country, there is a surplus. During the period since the Government has taken up key reforms and most of them have been implemented, it is estimated from 2005 to the end of 2007, the gross domestic product has increased by more than 4 000 euros per capita in Slovenia by purchasing power. During that time, 37,500 new jobs were created. Unemployment has fallen by almost one and a half percentage points and is the lowest in the history of this country. It is also very important that youth unemployment by the age of 26, which was previously a structural problem in this area, has been reduced by 10% in this period. Gross wages increased by 20% during this period. The minimum wage has risen by 19%. The average age pension increased by 14%. The lowest full-time pension base increased by more than 16% during this period. At this time, we have reduced the expenditure of the wider sector by 3.2%, and we have reduced the deficit of the wider sector by 2.2%. As a result, the debt of the wider sector of the country decreased by 3.5% at the time, significantly more than we had hoped at the beginning of the mandate. This is, according to macroeconomic indicators, significant progress. Slovenia has never, in an equally long period of time, recorded any of the most favourable results. However, it is important that, according to forecasts, we can also expect growth rates in the coming years that will be at least twice as high as the average of the European Union and the European Monetary Union. Slovenia is thus approaching the European Union's average development rate and faster than envisaged in the Slovenia Development Strategy, which began in 2004. We are aware, however, that these last 9% still need to be achieved are a precipitous target. It's not going to be easy. In the future, we will be required to make decisions that will not always be easy. However, they are urgent if we are to catch up to the most developed, which is our goal. Slovenia has a healthy and competitive economy. The increase in exports of the Slovenian economy to the most demanding markets is the most visible proof of this claim. Slovenia also has knowledge and creative potential. It is only necessary to use and develop both and to face the greatest development challenges without problems. Of course, Slovenia's wealth has, above all, been found in people who have been particularly willing, persistent, sometimes even failure to achieve results in circumstances that have not always been so favourable or comparable to those in the more developed part of Europe. This is why Slovenia is today firmly anchored in the group of the most developed European countries. Most of the trends that have also been shown in this introduction are such that they allow us to make further progress. Our aim is also to ensure that the positive effects of the development of higher economic growth are fairly and evenly distributed among all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That what we are creating today will be a solid foundation, as well as a source from which future generations will also draw. The government, with these proposals covered by the budget balance, insists on the road map. For the last three years, they've proven that this path is producing results. With some of the accelerations proposed in this balance, we will bring some key development objectives closer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister Janez Janša. I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, to further present the proposal for the 2008 budget rebalancing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a rebalancing of the State budget for 2008, by which the Government proposes to the National Assembly to receive an additional budget of EUR 70 million or 0.2% of gross domestic product. The 2008 budget rebalancing proposal is the result of a prudent and countercyclical public financial policy whereby the Government uses higher revenues than planned not to raise expenditure or public spending, but rather to reduce deficits, correct deficits and create surpluses. In this way, the budget surplus will be achieved in the second consecutive year of the state budget. At the end of last year, for the first time in ten years, the government has reached a budget surplus of €37 million and has reduced the consolidated expenditure of the entire country sector. This is said to include all units of the State sector, which, in addition to the four treasury budgets of the state budget, the budgets of the municipalities, the budget of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and the Health Care Institute, includes all public institutions, public agencies, public funds and the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Capital Society. So, the whole thing, everything that belongs to the public sector. This reduced the share from 64.5% of gross domestic product at the end of 2004 to around 43.2%, which is, according to the accounting principle, 3.6% less than when the Government assumed its mandate in 2004. If this balance is adopted, we will approach 4% of gross domestic product points at the end of the mandate, which is even more than this coalition has committed itself to implementing this mandate. During the discussions on the 2008 budget changes, we listened to comments that the surplus in 2007 simply happened to us. With the proposed rebalancing, we have proven that this is not a coincidence. But this is due to the right decisions of this government and the properly planned budget. Some economists are critical to the proposed rebalancing when they claim that the government should show a higher budgetary surplus in a situation of high economic growth. In doing so, they obviously do not take into account the following facts. Firstly, the consequences of a very ambitious tax reform implemented by the Government in a responsible manner and actually reduced taxes and tax burdens in Slovenia. That this government reduces wage imbalances in the public sector under the 2002 law. That this government reduces the negative effects of external price shocks on the most vulnerable part of the population. Therefore, the 2008 budget rebalancing is appropriate in every way. The balance we are presenting today contains three important features. And that is to say that it is development-oriented, mitigating the negative effects of inflationary movements on the socially weak population groups and means the countercyclical functioning of fiscal policy, which acts in the direction of alleviating inflationary expectations. The basis for the preparation of the proposal for a rebalancing is the updated macroeconomic baselines recently drawn up by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the context of the 2008 spring economic forecast. As a special success, we can consider the fact that, in achieving all the planned goals, we raise the standard of living for all groups of the population, and especially for the most socially vulnerable. We provide appropriate measures to address the negative effects of high inflation. We consolidate Slovenia's macroeconomic position, eliminate wage imbalances in the public sector and strengthen capital power in central Slovenian banks and create budgetary surpluses. I would like to stress that we cannot attribute favourable macroeconomic results to coincidence. I stress that we cannot attribute favourable macroeconomic results to chance but to proper planning and implementation of government policies. In this way, the Government has taken large-scale austerity measures and, by means of a rebalancing, has reduced expenditure mainly on goods and services expenditure while at the same time earmarking more funds for individual transfers. In other words: "When providing budgetary surplus, the Government did not restrict any development programmes or transfers. On the contrary. The volume of transfers for individuals and households and certain subsidies is increased." The main changes proposed by the 2008 proposal for a rebalancing are: increasing subsidies for certain transfers to individuals, increasing the macroeconomic stability of the country, taking into account the legal and other commitments made to ensure the implementation of the Public Sector Wages Act and creating a room for recapitalisation of the New Maribor Bank. In order to achieve its objectives, the 2008 Draft Budget Rebalancing provides for a reduction in certain categories of expenditure, in particular expenditure on goods and services, and for certain transfers and investments. The rebalancing thus provides for a reduction of expenditure of around € 134 million. At the same time, with the rebalancing, we have increased the funds for salaries under the Public Sector Wages Act. Increase funds for agricultural subsidies, transfers to individuals and households in the field of family and work and education, transfers abroad, mainly due to NATO projects, and increase reserves as a result of amended economic and international obligations. A total of EUR 84.5 million is foreseen for the rebalancing budget. I would like to point out that, with the proposed rebalancing, the total amount of the country's projected indebtedness in 2008 is declining by up to EUR 478 million. Amendments to the 2008 Budget Implementation Act reduce the projected deficit or increase the surplus in the total revenue and expenditure balance of EUR 300 million. At the same time, the projected volume of principal repayments for the good EUR 198 million is decreasing. Dear Members and Members! Before we go to a more detailed presentation of the 2008 budget rebalancing, allow me to review macroeconomic developments over the last period, with particular emphasis on how public financial policy has contributed to the macroeconomic balance in Slovenia. I would like to point out that the fiscal results, which at the end of the financial year have already been several years better than those forecasted in the preparation of budgets, will contribute to Slovenia's medium and long-term macroeconomic stability when the Ministry of Finance behaves wisely. Among other things, this means lower budgetary and thus the overall deficit of the state sector. Slovenia is still in a relatively favourable macroeconomic period, although gross domestic product growth is expected to be lower this year than in 2007. The government has also contributed to the favourable economic situation through structural reforms, including proper guidance for changes in the tax system. At the time of this government, we achieved record economic growth in Slovenia, which increased in a favourable international environment last year. It is the highest in the whole period of the independent state of Slovenia. The main drivers of economic growth were exports of goods and services, which had as much as 13% real growth, and high, very high domestic investment activity, as real growth in fixed assets was 17.2%). According to Umar's estimates, in 2008 economic growth is expected to be 4.4% of GDP, which is the level of average growth achieved in previous years. The slowdown in growth is largely linked to the calming of the conjuncture in the international environment. Growth will mainly be lower in the segments that grew the fastest last year and even before last year. On the consumption side, these are exports and investments in fixed assets, and on the offer side in particular construction, production, trade and financial intermediation activities. Given that the situation in the international environment is calming more than planned in the autumn, the spring forecast for economic growth for 2008 is also slightly lower than the autumn forecast of 4.6%. According to the latest data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia on exports and imports for the first quarter of 2008, Slovenia exported €5 billion in goods, representing 6% more than in the first three months of the previous year. However, it imported €5.6 billion, which exceeds the first quarter of 2007 by 10.4%. It is therefore moderately optimistic data that shows a different picture of economic development, as some pessimistic so-called experts show. The main macroeconomic challenge we are facing is inflation. The average annual inflation was 3.6% at the end of last year. Interannual, which means December 2007 and December 2006 and 5.6%. In March of the year, we reached the highest inflation rate of only 6.9%. However, signs of price calming began to appear in April 2007. As is known, prices of living needs have started to rise in the middle of the previous year. In particular, due to the significant rise in oil and petroleum derivatives and the immeasurable irritation of basic raw materials and food prices on global markets, this has had an impact on the rise in domestic food and liquid fuel prices. The external price shocks caused by the rise in food prices in the world markets have moved to higher market prices in Slovenia, much more than elsewhere in Europe, especially in the euro area. The government has responded in a timely manner both by taking measures to mitigate the effects of inflation, mainly in the social field, as well as by measures against inflation. At the end of this year, lower annual inflation is expected compared to 2007. According to Umar's forecasts, a gradual decline in annual inflation is projected to be 4% at the end of 2008. However, the mean is mainly due to the statistical effect of 5.2. The lower inflation in 2008 was also announced by Banka Slovenije. Of course, lower inflation will be possible only if new external shocks do not occur. In Slovenia, inflation is expected to move in the same way as in the euro area by the end of 2008. Allow me to mention the role of fiscal policy in inflationary movements. We now have only accurate data on the anti-cyclical state of the budget in 2007. The structural deficit was reduced by 0.6 percentage points. Similarly, the country’s contribution to gross domestic product is very low. Employment growth was extremely high in 2007, up to 2.7%. This year's employment growth will still be relatively high, projected 1.1%. Gross salary per employee increased nominally by 5.9 and real-time by 2.2% in 2007. For nominal productivity growth, which was 7.2% last year, gross wage per employee was lagged behind a good percentage point. Thus, wage growth has not contributed to inflation and we must strive to keep it that way for the future. Net salary growth was higher by 2 percentage points than gross wage growth last year due to changes in income. This year's wage growth will be higher than last year, partly due to the elimination of wage imbalances in the public sector. Taking into account agreed wage increases in the public and private sectors, real GDP growth will be around 2.4% per employee. In the face of these structural developments, key macroeconomic policies remained focused on limiting inflationary pressures in 2007. As in previous years, the government has also drawn up the 2008 budget rebalancing very carefully. The management of such a fiscal policy enabled the government to introduce a tax reform without raising VAT rates, which the Government announced or anticipated last year when the 2008 budget was adopted in this National Assembly. With the gradual reduction of the country's budget and overall deficit, however, the ambition of the government's public policy is also reflected in the fact that we will reduce the overall revenues of the wider sector between 2004 and 2008 through the ESA methodology, as I mentioned from the outset. Throughout the period since its term of office, the government has been reducing the participation of the overall expenditure of the wider sector. This is so important. Because there is much more than we planned and we were able to use a good time and climate in the world economy wisely. Something like this has never happened in the history of independent Slovenia. Compared to GDP, the debt situation of the state budget decreased in 2004 as a result of the deficit reduction. However, the implementation of a very good budgetary policy in 2007, when the state budget for the first time had surpluses in 10 years, and the proposed rebalancing of the State budget for 2008, will reduce significantly further than originally envisaged. Taking into account the proposed state budget balance at the end of 2008, we are expected to achieve for the first time in the years of Slovenia alone even a nominal debt reduction, expressed in GDP with the projected 20.1 GDP lowest debt situation in GDP since 1995 onwards. This means that the debt of the state budget has been reduced by almost 5 percentage points of GDP since the beginning of this government's mandate. The accelerated reduction of the deficit of the State budget and the surpluses of 2007 and the rebalancing of 2008 together with the state debt transactions and the consumption of the purchase to reduce the debt situation or to reduce the necessary amount of the new debt also provide for a substantial faster reduction of the public debt interest expenditure. Both the share of total government budget expenditure and the share of GDP. In 2004, interest payments on government debt amounted to 5.4% of total government budget expenditure. While in 2008 it is projected that only 3.72 will be available. As expressed in GDP, interest payments in 2004 represented 1.39% of GDP. In 2008, only 0.9% of GDP is projected. In 2009, 0.84%. Nominal interest has been declining since 2004. In addition, I am proud that last year the Ministry of Finance for the issuance of bonds received the award of the magazine The Banker, which ranked this issue among the best such after the year. It was not only important for Slovenia, and these are their words, but for the whole Central and Eastern European region. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to say a few words about the medium-term prospects of Slovenian public finances. The country's deficit, as demonstrated by ESA 95 methodology, is at 2.3% and 2.7% of GDP between 2002 and 2004. In 2005, the country's deficit fell to 1.5% and further decreased by 1.2% in 2006. In 2007, the country-wide deficit decreased by 0.07% of GDP. For 2008, the budget changes and deficits of the whole country sector were foreseen at 0.6. According to the proposed rebalancing, however, the deficit estimates show that this will decrease significantly and that it will be 0.07 or 0.08. As I said in the introduction, the Government can boast that it has reduced the deficit of the state sector in its mandate since 2004. There is also a lack of global public funding balance. This is a deficit of four public finances, but it is decreasing. In total, as mentioned in the first paragraphs. The 2008 budget rebalancing. Ladies and gentlemen! As you may have estimated on the basis of the data yourself, the government's functioning in this area, as in others, has been very successful. However, we have maintained a sober head and have carefully planned annual budgets. Allow me to present in more detail the 2008 balance that is now ahead of you. The updated estimates of the revenue of the State budget for the preparation of the 2008 budget rebalancing are based on the achieved implementation in 2007, on the new spring macro-economic baselines of Umarje and include the effects of amended legislation and other known factors affecting the level of revenue. This increases the projected revenue of the State budget by around €250 million, or 2.9%, according to the 2008 budget, to €8885 million, or 24.5% of GDP. Despite the increased growth in the 2008 budget revenue from the expected autumn forecasts of macroeconomic baselines and taking into account changes in the 2008 budget, the government maintains a prudent nature of income planning, thus contributing to Slovenia's medium- and long-term macroeconomic stability. The government follows one of the fundamental principles of the Stability and Growth Pact by guiding such fiscal policy, after which a budget reserve is created in good times, allowing automatic stabilisers to function in a period of lower economic growth. In view of the changes in the 2008 budget, some 263 million and 3.6 more tax revenues are foreseen for the rebalancing. However, their share of GDP represents 20.9%. This is mainly due to a higher assessment of revenue from corporate income tax, excise duty and value added tax. While the income-based income assessment has not changed for 2008 despite the introduction of additional allowances. In the balance sheet, the projected non-tax revenues under the 2008 revised budget increase by around €5.6 million and represent around 1.3% of GDP. This increase is due to higher income from interest and fines and fines, and lower income from assets and taxes and charges. As regards expenditure, as we said in the introduction, the preparation of the 2008 budget rebalancing took into account the fact that, following the adoption of the amended 2008 budget, some new laws have been adopted that affect the level of funding for certain programmes. In addition, the Government has decided that all government budgetary users must lower their financial plans, as it will only be possible to achieve the main objective. This is to create a budgetary surplus in 2008. Thus, according to the government decision, the projected expenditure of government budget users totalling EUR 61.2 million was reduced for 2008. Taking into account additional legal commitments, budget expenditure in the proposal for a rebalancing totals €49.7 million and will amount to €8 000 815 million in 2008. In the context of all the changes, the Government has also planned to step up the programme to address the effects of direct damage due to the consequences of the flood storm in the Railways. In amending the projected expenditure of the 2008 State budget, I would like to stress in particular that expenditure on goods and services will be reduced by around €48 million. The proposal for a rebalancing foresees a reduction in expenditure on this segment for almost all budgetary users. For these purposes, the Ministry of Defence’s funds are cut most by 48.8. In particular, due to a significant decrease in purchases under the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes and internal redeployments. The reduction in resources in the expenditure segment for goods and services is also foreseen for the Ministry of Transport, €6.7 million, for public service sub-programmes in rail transport and for the regulation and control of transport. And at the Ministry of Finance for €5.6 million. In particular, to provide funds for salaries and redistribution to government services under the EU Presidency's translation programme. I would also mention the Ministry of Public Administration, which reduces funds in the area of maintenance of the information structure. Among the budgetary users who are increasing funds for goods and services expenditure are the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Economy. First, it is said that the Ministry of Environment and Space is increasing funds mainly to provide additional funds to address the consequences of the storm in September 2007 in the Railways. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is increasing its funding in this segment as a result of the change in instruments, as part of the priority to guide the operational programme for human resources development for the period 2007-2013. The Ministry of Agriculture, Economy and Food will receive additional funding by adopting the 2008 budget balance. In particular for the maintenance of the accumulation of Vogršček, the protection of natural resources in fisheries and the implementation of technical assistance in the context of rural development 2007-2013. Government services are getting more money. In particular, in order to provide additional resources under the main programme of the EU Presidency for the provision of conference interpretation. The funds for the Presidency programme have been reduced in proportion to the Ministry of Finance. This means that the financial framework for the Presidency has not been increased. The 2008 proposal for the 2008 budget rebalancing increases the funding for subsidies totalling almost EUR 15 million. It significantly increases the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Sport. However, in the light of the proposal for a rebalancing, the funds are falling significantly from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Space. How are subsidies to public companies and private individuals reduced, funds for the implementation of European programmes, information and promotion? Subsidies for private companies and private individuals are increasing by €15.9 million. What is most reflected in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Sport. While the funds are falling noticeably at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Space. Funding for transfers to individuals and households is increasing by almost €33 million through the 2008 budget rebalancing proposal. The most important means will be increased in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It's 30 million euros. Of this, 20 million will be aimed at increasing the child supplement, which aims to reduce the potential risk of increasing child poverty and social exclusion. Additional funds shall also be allocated to the parental compensation and to the health insurance of foster parents and foster parents. In addition to these additional resources, additional appropriations for child allowances and parental allowances will be allocated within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs financial plan. In addition to these increases, in the context of other transfers, individuals have the largest increase in funding from the Ministry of Education and Sport. The balance of 2008 is increasing by €12 million. To subsidise the student diet, as will ensure the healthy, regular and proper nutrition of students. Transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions are mainly changed at the expense of the dynamics of European assets inflows. The balance also changes other domestic transfers and transfers abroad. On the expenditure side, I would also like to mention the reduction in investment expenditure for the purchase and construction of basic funds by EUR 34.2 million, taking into account the dynamics of project preparation and implementation. Investment transfers to non-budgetable legal and natural persons are also reduced by €17.8 million, according to the amended 2008 budget. As I said in the introduction, one of the reasons for the 2008 budget rebalancing is the recapitalisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank of €63 million. If the Assembly so decides, the Government will cooperate with a view to maintaining ownership. Allow me a few more sentences about the adoption of tax reform. When we decided on the changes in the field of tax legislation in 2005 and 2006, we assessed, on the basis of the calculations made by the Institute's experts on economic research, that the effects of the changes in the tax area had a positive impact on economic growth and increased investment, on increased employment and on welfare for all income groups. Today we find that, by introducing tax reform, we have not only met our expectations but have exceeded them. According to the OECD methodology on the tax burden on wages published in March this year, Slovenia can be compared to the upper third of the OECD countries. The share of taxes and social contributions in total labour costs decreased from 0.74 to 2.68% last year compared to 2005. Which is the biggest tax burden since Slovenia's independence. With comparable tax margins of other countries, such as Denmark, the Czech Republic, Finland and Greece, Slovenia has reached one of the lowest unemployment rates. Why? In addition to the 2005 amendments to the Income Act, which brought, among other things, the introduction of cedularity in the taxation of dividends, capital gains and interest, in 2006 brought about a further reduction in overprogress and an increase in general relief and thus lower taxation of citizens and citizens. However, greater incentives remain for a more productive and creative part of the working population. In 2008, with the aim of mitigating the effects of inflation, we further increased the overall relief for the most vulnerable population. The tax on paid salaries shall be gradually reduced and definitively abolished as from 1 January of the following year. This uniformly reduces the cost of the workforce in companies and increases the space to compensate for other increased costs and thus increases the potential for investing and increasing the economic activity of businesses. The abolition of this tax is considered one of the greatest successes of tax reform. We are cancelling almost €800 million of budget revenue annually by abolishing this tax. And by doing that, we're creating surpluses, of course. The Law on corporate income tax means the tax and administrative burden on companies and the elimination of double taxation. The tax rate is gradually decreasing from 25% in 2006 to 23 in 2008. That's what happened. 22% in the current year 2008 and 21% in 2009. As of 2010, with January 1st, we will, that is 18 months from now, and something else, we will reach the target rate of 20%. Investment or investment reliefs that have been phased out have been compensated in particular by making it easier to invest in R & D and by which companies are increasingly being used. The 2005 R & D tax relief was set at EUR 2.5 million, in 2006 at EUR 59.7 million, and in 2007 at present at EUR 60.6 million, and in the case of additional EUR 5.6 million, at regional concessions. We are convinced that by means of this facilitation instrument, we are best pursuing the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. We are giving businesses the opportunity to make their own decisions on R & D funds and priorities. The country takes only a fraction of the risk and shares it with companies. All of the above really means, for the first time, that we have already exceeded the objective set out in the Coalition Treaty and will reduce public financial expenditure by more than 3% by the end of 2008 and we will approach 4% of GDP. Secondly, by the tax reform we have abolished the tax on wages paid, we have changed the income and the area of corporate taxation, burdened the economy and the natural persons together for more than 900 million euros. This decommissioning creates an additional opportunity for the investment breakthrough of domestic companies and for the development and expansion of the scope of business. And yet another important point: no new tax has been introduced in the entire tax reform. Nor did the amount of taxes or excise duties increase. Thirdly, these measures have not been implemented at the expense of increasing differences in society. The differences between the rich and the poor in Slovenia are still among the lowest in the European Union and according to the standard levels of inequality carried out by Eurostat, Slovenia falls in the same rank as Sweden and Denmark. According to Eurostat, in 2006 the average income ratio was between 20% of the richest and 20% of the poorest 3.4. Which is significantly better than the EU average of 4.8. In the same year, Slovenia immediately had the lowest risk of poverty following social transfers to the EU at 12% for the Czech Republic. While the EU average was 16%. Of course, we are not satisfied with this. But this proves that we are far from what is sometimes shown or trying to show. Slovenia has not renounced the social state principle enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, some claim the opposite despite the information just mentioned. Dear Members and Members! I hope that I have made sufficient arguments for the adoption of the 2008 state budget balance, which really confirms the conversion in the public financial policy introduced in this mandate, ranks Slovenia among the most promising young members of the European Union and makes a very important contribution to reducing the differences between Slovenia and the most developed economies in the European Union. Thank you so much for your attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the additional presentation of the proposal. The draft budget balance was also considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr. Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Board. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u7	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! At its 37th urgent meeting, on 27.5.2008, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. As additional material, the opinion of the Court of Justice of 16 was forwarded to the Committee. 5. 2008 The Committee also received amendments from qualified candidates to individual budget users, namely the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors of 26 5. 2008, the Lipa Group of Ambassadors, 26. 5. 2008, Member of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, 23. 5. 2008, Ambassador Robert Battelli of 23 July 2008 5. 2008, Ambassador Ljuba Germić of 23.5.2008, Member of Dr Mitja Slavinc of 23 July 2008. 5. 2008 and Member Anton Kokalja of 26. 5. 2008 The opening argument was further presented by the President of the Government. Above all, he said that the budget balance was needed due to a changed macroeconomic environment. I'm sorry, the rebalancing was presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance. In short, it is a matter of harmonising again in the macroeconomic environment in view of the April assessment of the Office for Macroeconomic Relations and Development. It is also an implementation and the possibility of implementing all the legislation that has been adopted. Mainly due to the mitigation of the social consequences of inflation. In short, it is particularly important that a large part of the expected higher revenues in 2008 are intended to reduce the state budget deficit, which has changed into 69 or 70 million plus instead of 230 million. So, instead of deficits, we came in plus. Which is a very nice success. It is said that we have decided that mainly all revenue, an increase in revenue, is intended to reduce the deficit. The debate raised questions: How does the Government intend to ensure the establishment of a national economic balance this year, since in the history of Slovenia alone, the biggest deficit in the balance of payments is so far? How does the government plan to further reduce inflation? A question was raised regarding the projected recapitalisation of the New Bank of Maribor of EUR 63 million. In particular, in view of the fact that this was not stated in the very explanation of the rebalancing itself and this was reflected in the additional law, this is ZIPRO. The question was raised about the reality of EU revenue planning, projected at EUR 786 million or as much as EUR 420 million, of higher revenue than the expenditure foreseen at EUR 375 million. The debate also made some very positive comments on this balance that we have been addressing. Finally, we discussed the amendments I mentioned earlier, and the committee did not accept any amendments. So the assembly will have to decide for itself on the proposed amendments. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u8	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u9	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. Honorable representatives of the government. According to last year's extraordinary, for our young country - we can say calmly the best economic developments in its history, oil prices on the world economy have caused constant pressure on operating costs and reduced efforts for a more competitive economy. We witnessed an enormous increase in basic food prices in the middle of the year. Both of these aggregates caused a disturbance in the market for basic foods. Both in Europe and in the world. It is clear, of course, that the impact on the increase in living costs was very different in terms of size, regulated and stable economic environment. Our country Slovenia is particularly sensitive because of its smallness and not yet completed transition. Therefore, the country was forced to respond to the collapse of the standard of living, which inevitably followed the shocks on the world market. The Government therefore proposed amendments to the legislation in January to alleviate the social hardships of the poor. For this purpose, amendments to the Income Act, the Protection Supplement Act and the Parental Protection Act were adopted at an extraordinary meeting in mid-January, with effect from 1.1.2008. At the regular January session, the Law on subsidisation of student diet and later the Law on kindergartens, which will enter into force on the new school year, was adopted. Finally, an enormous increase in the minimum wage was also adopted. The reason for the budget's rebalancing is, in addition to legislative changes, an increase in social rights, including a change in macroeconomic trends. The favourable economic developments of the previous year continue. In 2007, economic growth was highest than Slovenia's independence. It was 6.1%. The main drivers of economic growth were exports of goods and services and high domestic investment activities. For 2008, the OMAR forecast is to set economic growth at 4.4%. However, it should be pointed out that all the UMAR forecasts have so far been conservative. Actual economic growth has so far gone beyond what has been predicted. Employment growth in 2007 was 2.7%. So it's significantly higher than the projections. Gross salary per employee increased nominally by 5.9 % in 2007 and real pay by 2.2%. For nominal productivity growth of 7.2%, gross wage per employee was lagging behind for a good percentage point. Net salary growth was 2 percentage points higher than gross wage growth last year due to changes in income. However, inflation must also be mentioned from changes in macroeconomic baselines, which form the basis for budget composition. The average inflation at the end of last year was 3.6%. Five-year-old, six-year-old. Pressures on consumer prices have started to rise significantly in the middle of the year, mainly as a result of a significant rise in oil prices and the price of basic raw materials and food prices on global markets, which has had an impact on the marked rise in domestic food and liquid fuels prices. The problem of high inflation is facing virtually all countries of the world today, as a result of the global rise in food and energy prices. The 2008 proposal for the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia totals EUR 8 billion 884 million, EUR 914 000,893 or 24.5%, respectively, of the gross social product. Of this, 7 billion 587 million is 441 thousand EUR 701 tax revenue, representing 20.9% of the gross social product. EUR 486 million 114 000 471 in non-tax revenue, EUR 28 million 358 290 in capital revenue. These are grants and transfer revenue, and 783 million 431 000 funds received from the European Union budget. Compared to the revised 2008 budget, €250 million is planned for €128 000 or 2.8% more. The increase in income estimates is mainly due to a higher estimate of income from corporate income tax, excise duty and value added tax. Higher tax revenues are due to the continuation of favourable economic trends, which was based on the Government of Janez Janša. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are pleased to see the profits of companies growing due to favourable economic developments. As a result, there is more income from the tax on the income or profit of legal persons. And as a result of the good state of the economy, consumption is rising. In particular, it is private, which is why more value added tax resources flow into the State budget. Receipts from excise duty are higher. In particular, due to the abolition of the Austrian quantitative restrictions on the introduction of tobacco products from Slovenia and unfortunately, smoking has not decreased significantly despite the new tobacco law. Budget expenditure in the proposal for a rebalancing decreases by €49.7 million and will amount to €8 billion,815 million, 557 000,532 in 2008. Most savings are proposed for material costs and investments. Instead of €230 million in deficit, the balance provides for €69.4 million in budget surplus. This represents 0.2% of the gross social product. Slovenia has already reached a budget surplus of €37 million last year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are pleased that the Government will also achieve this surplus in 2008. The budgetary surplus is proof that the Government treats public funds in a cost-effective and cost-effective manner. Above all, it is evidence that the government's fiscal policy is not a reason for inflation, which is what the opposition and some political economists like. Having achieved such economic results and already having two budgetary periods of surplus is a result that previous governments could not even dream of. The balance of the budget will also be redistributed by ministries. The Ministry of Education and Sport will get the most - €33.63 million to subsidise student nutrition and pay teachers in primary and secondary schools. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs - EUR 26.83 million, despite the fact that the funds allocated to this ministry are increasing, the Ministry will allocate less resources to help the unemployed. For a simple reason: the number of unemployed has significantly decreased in the mandate of the government of Janez Janša by more than 30,000 people. Reducing unemployment is the most effective measure to reduce the social pressures of people. However, funds are being increased for children's allowances and parental benefits, amounting to €41 million. A total of €550 million will be allocated for the child allowance and parental compensation in 2008. The Ministry of the Environment and Space will obtain €7.7 million for water and treatment planning, protection and action. The Ministry of Higher Education will obtain EUR 5.3 million to increase the salaries of higher education teachers and to prepare the construction of a medical university in Maribor. The most funds are lost by the Ministry of Defence, €36.6 million. Material costs for operational activities will be reduced. Investments in weapons and military infrastructure will be smaller. The Ministry of Public Administration is down 32.4 million euros. It is true that smaller funds are envisaged in this ministry. However, it is essentially the allocation of funds, not the reduction, as the funds allocated to the coordination of wage imbalances will be allocated to other ministries. In addition, the Ministry will spend less on reducing staff consumption due to rationalisation and better qualified employees. The Ministry of Finance will have less resources of €23.27 million. Resources are being reduced due to the active management of the country's debt. The Ministry paid off the State bonds with a high interest rate in advance. However, the reserve of the Republic of Slovenia is increasing, with a view to providing additional funds to remedy the consequences of the storm in the Railways. With regard to the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Maribor and the New Ljubljana Bank, we agree with the Ministry in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the recapitalisation of both banks is necessary in order to ensure capital adequacy and organic growth. We support the intention of the ministry or government to act as a good master with that part of the New Bank of Maribor, which remained state-owned after public sale. The Ministry of Transport is proposed for 19.56 million euros less. Funds for investment maintenance and construction of state roads are being reduced due to land purchase complications and procedures for the preparation of the necessary projects and spatial documentation. However, funds are also being reduced for rail transport and infrastructure, as a public service contract was concluded with the Slovenian Railways in which VAT was charged, which was not necessary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed balance contributes to greater macroeconomic stability of the country and to the countercyclical movement of public finances. The 2008 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia is a good basis for the continuation of favourable economic developments and consequently for the improvement of the welfare of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we will also support the proposal for a rebalancing in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u10	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that. Citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! With this rebalancing for 2008, I no doubt conclude the mandate of the current Government. The effects of the proposed balance will also affect whether people support the continuation of such irresponsible government policy. The Group of Social Democrats and we personally assess that this budget balance is an inadequate response to the problems we have in Slovenia. That's why we won't support the balance. If everything were as bad as it was a few minutes ago, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance said, then we wouldn't have any problems in Slovenia. We wouldn't have seen the decline in industrial production according to the latest data. We wouldn't have a high deficit on the balance of payments. We would not have had a high increase in indebtedness and would not have increased inflation. Therefore, the fundamental question remains: Does the Government provide an improvement in the situation for all with this balance? We don't think that's true. More. The government is also not responding adequately to the fundamental problem currently faced by Slovenia through a rebalancing process. This is that the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is declining due to increasing effective taxation. And this is seen in the decline in export growth compared to the increase in imports. The latest data show that we have a balance of payments deficit in Slovenia in trade in goods, i.e. exports of goods compared to imports of goods. Simplification: We cover 12 months of imports with only 11 months of export. We're running out of 12 for one. How is that financed? I'm working on the export of services. So with tourism, especially with a high gross increase in gross debt. And if at the end of the previous Government of December 2004 we were fully Slovenians, businesses, privates, banks, the state was in charge of 15 billion euros, today we are 100% more than or 34 billion euros. These are the data of the Bank of Slovenia. This increased gross debt means that we also have a 100% higher obligation to pay interest. At a time when interest on global markets is increasing significantly. How should the government work? The government should be anti-cylic. Minister, Prime Minister of the Government, the Prime Minister of the Government is quite tired, the minister quite euphoric, they claimed here that the government is acting countercyclically. When deciding who is right and there will be a lot of debate today, the fundamental question is: What is the nominal growth in the expenditure of the state budget compared to the past period? And that's why only one number matters. If you want to have low inflation, for example, two percent inflation and you have 2 to 4% real growth, then that inflation does not increase to act countercyclically, the increase in expenditure cannot be higher than 4 to 6%. It's called a consumer rule. We Social Democrats have written in our programme, an alternative government programme, that we will self-restraint in order to introduce a consumer rule. And in 2008, inflation could result in a slightly higher increase in expenditure than projected economic growth. The projected economic growth is around 4%. So we could have a possible nominal increase in expenditure between 5% and 6%. But what are the numbers? The government hides them. The documents they sent us don't account for this nominal number anywhere. We calculated it ourselves. We looked at the realisation. We have looked at the number, and the basic number that you will decide today on who is right, whether the President of the Government, who says that the Government works countercyclically, whether the Minister of Finance or, for example, the Bank of Slovenia, or, God forbid, the opposition, is what the nominal growth of expenditure in the state budget is. And this growth is 13.6% according to the 2007 reality. 13.6% is the nominal increase in expenditure in the budget rebalancing according to how spending was realised in 2007. And that's more than 7.8% real growth in expenditure, which increases inflation. So is the government anticyclical? I don't think so. There is a close correlation between spending growth and price growth. Especially some of the prices that the Government says are working on - that are external causes. And if you have between 10% and 15% food prices today, you can't have 13.6% increase in government budget expenditure. We're not just talking about this in the opposition. In the last price stability assessment, Banka Slovenija says that such high surpluses should be created to provide additional domestic savings for the establishment of the national economic balance, and at least what could be reasonably expected, the possibility of spilling the inflationary part of the public financial revenues resulting from an increase in prices into current public financial expenditure should be limited. Or simplified: Banka Slovenije itself estimates that it would be necessary to make an increase in expenditure that would be uniform. Not 13,6, but hard under 10. The government didn't do it. The government with the budget rebalancing, when we look at the changes in the budget, is even increasing the nominal increase in expenditure in relation to the assessment of implementation. It's still two-city. And 13.6 is too high an increase in expenditure. Why did this high expenditure increase occur? We have two kinds of reasons. One of the reasons is in so-called "pre-election candy" for which the Government has decided in this mandate. The second is related to the fact that the Government was not prepared to cut off the balance of the state budget in those measures that we proposed at the January inflation meeting. Let me remind you. You said in January, you even took the conclusions that everything was okay, that inflation was gone. But look - inflation is increasing! Today, on average, it's already at over 6%. And now two days from now, we're going to get May inflation, and my estimate is that this is going to be strong over 1% on a monthly basis. And multiply that times 12 and you'll see where we are. Accelerating inflation is also linked to what the government says about its growth in expenditure. And if the government says that the expenditure should go up by 13.6%, then the other actors will adapt. We're saying that the balance just happened. There are two reasons. The first reason is the increased burden on the economy, in an increased corporate income tax where for a quarter of a billion euros we have more income from corporate income tax in 2008 compared to 2007. We are on the committee and here again ask the Government: Would it not be more appropriate to work countercyclically so that, as early as 1 July 2008, we can apply that provision of corporate income tax, which was adopted in early 2007, in order to make the rate of taxation of corporate income 20%? And that because we have a "better situation", especially in some of the stories that are happening in business balance sheets, I am thinking mainly of pre-evaluation of financial investments, but it is too complicated for us to have a very detailed discussion here. Would it not be more appropriate to apply a 20% rate immediately? In this way, by 100,000, especially medium and small enterprises, they could reduce the deposit by 15% and accelerate, increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. It is true that this would increase the surplus of revenue over expenditure in companies. However, companies, especially in the economy, could otherwise share wages. This would relieve the pressures in companies between capital and work. The Ministry of Finance said it would oppose this law. In a few days, this law will also come to a meeting of the competent home work bodies and we will be able to discuss it again. A very simple measure stems from your reforms. The only difference that you have said about these reforms is that we will accept them, but they will only apply within the mandate of the next government. Very good action from the point of view of 'puts a burden on the future'. And another great story is the European Union. Look, we've been saying for a while that we have problems with this, but in today's work, Dr. Jože Mencinger published an article Will they pay us a budget surplus in Brussels? Dr. Jože Mencinger, former university rector, scientific advisor to the Faculty of Economics, professor of economics, simply does not believe the figures you presented in the Draft State Budget Balance. And this is that we are actually going to generate all the surplus from a much higher volume of revenue that we are going to draw from the European Union. Dr. Mencinger doesn't believe in this movie either. And so do we. Last but not least, this is proved by the deficit in relation to the European Union budget in 2007, realised at €8.9 million instead of over €270 million. This is demonstrated by the deficit figures in the first four months of this year. We have 90 million euro deficits in 1/3 years. So in 2/3 years it is necessary to achieve half a billion revenue surpluses. However, the Minister of Finance said on the committee that we had poorly prepared projects. Moreover, even municipalities have been informed that there is going to be a halt to the use of agricultural resources. That's what others will talk about. There is no need for a national budget balance. It should be sufficient to limit the increase in income from corporate income tax, to apply the provisions of the Public Finance Act, to limit consumption and to reduce consumption below 10%. Of course, this can also be done without a balance. The balance is needed because of a completely different story. And this is the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. This is the only reason why we have the balance and why we have the correction, the Law on Budget Implementation. For all other reasons, the Government could also carry out public finances in 2008 without a balance sheet. That was your mistake. You sold 49% of NKBM to whoever you sold it to. Now the bank needs extra capital. Those who bought it cheap have already sold the bank, made use of capital gains. The government reinvests in NKBM’s privatisation revenues. It's called state capitalism. The balance of the state budget will not be supported. We regret, however, that the Government, for all the amendments of the opposition, members of the national communities and also one coalition MP, has made very clear why it will not support this. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the debate on individual amendments. The balance sheet is not countercyclical. Inflation will not be limited because of the balance. It will increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Everyone here is present, very little on the side behind my back! At the beginning of this session, we listened to two of the most responsible representatives of the Government, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance about the reasons or the rebalancing in general and the President of the Government more about everything else than the rebalancing, about the success of this government, about development projects, about administrative removals and so on and so on. So something that doesn't really fit the balance and had little to do with the balance. However, it is obvious that every opportunity must be used for the praise and achievements of this government. Minister Bajuk, who is, of course, the most competent to present the Government's position on the balance and also to say what he thinks is positive and also to find that something is negative, demanded our presence, our trust. Some of us have shown it, or attention. When the Minister has to listen to us, he's not in the hall and - I don't know - how he's going to answer the questions that will arise from these positions and later on. But this and this is clearly the attitude of the rulings towards this House. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that uncertainty about future economic developments is unusually high in 2008. The uncertainties of the macroeconomic environment are also increasingly present, which could further deepen the deviations from macroeconomic balance. Internal macroeconomic instability and an uncertain external environment in the period before pose new challenges to national economic policies. The risks to inflation projections are reversed. However, risks to economic activity projections are reversed. Apparently, the government is not up to these challenges, the findings that are clear to experts. And she is deaf to the warnings of the Bank of Slovenia. If I had listened to it, I would not have drawn up such a state budget as we are looking at today. Thus, the state budget has more revenue because this year's average inflation will be almost twice as high as last year. We all know that last year it was 3.6%, this year it's going to be 5.2%. Apparently, the government has calculated this inflation in the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, which means that the government obviously does not intend to act against high inflation, but rather incorporates it into its actions. Tax revenues are also higher due to the increased creative decision taken by companies, since those companies using the investment relief are more taxed, and although the nominal rate of corporate tax is gradually decreasing than that of legal persons, effective taxation is higher. This leads to Mr Bayuk's thesis that fiscal policy is not to blame for high inflation. The Chamber of Commerce, well illustrated the effects of the tax reform on inflation and explained how the abolition of tax reliefs actually increased corporate taxation and, as a result, increased tax costs were passed on to end-users at higher prices of products and services, and the circle is spinning. Prior to the preparation of the budget rebalancing, Minister Bajuk announced how to tighten the belt at the Ministry. Where's the tightening of the belt, we ask ourselves, we can't find it. The government has not made greater efforts to reduce budget expenditure in view of the 2008 budget adopted. Reducing the expenditure from €8,865,000 to €8,815,000 is only a minimum measure. The biggest problem is that 2008 expenditure is increasing significantly because the increase compared to 2007 is by 10.7%, which is, of course, higher than 8.2% of nominal economic growth by 2.28%. It is said that public consumption is increasing in the share of gross social product, which, of course, creates additional pressure on price growth. We therefore argue that this budget is not anti-inflationary. The government has also saved EUR 30 million at the expense of pensioners in the state budget, as the redundancies of the adoption of the law on the conversion of the share of insurance companies will reduce their liabilities to pension and disability insurance institutions, and the result will be that annual income or dividends will be transferred to the SPIZ account. While it is partly true that the budget commitments to the SPIZ have also decreased due to higher wage growth, which has filled the pension allowance more. The government with 0.2 gross social surplus in the state budget at 4.4% of economic growth and 5.2% of inflation cannot be an example of a balanced budget. In 2007, countries with lower economic growth and lower inflation had significantly higher public financial surpluses than Slovenia was expected to have in 2008. For example, in 2007, Denmark had a 1.4% economic growth rate of 4.5% gross social surplus. Spain has 2.2% surpluses in 2.3% of the economic race. The Netherlands, at 2.5% of economic growth, had 0.4% surpluses and Germany, with major public-financial problems, had a 2.2% economic growth surplus of 0.1%. Slovenia is said to have had the same share of surplus in gross social products as Germany, despite the fact that Germany had three times lower economic growth and twice lower inflation. All of this shows that the measures were not sufficient. Although the government knew that the economy was overheating in 2006, it continued its expansion fiscal policy, including Dars' debt. The positive production gap, as an indicator of inflationary pressures, was in 2006, although the government created a public-financial deficit of 0.82% of gross social product. The government should also be aware of these facts when planning fiscal policy. Although the government seems to be creating surpluses. These surpluses, in fact, stem from the financing of Dars, which is based on debt. The debt of Dars only increases the deficit in the current balance of payments account, which, of course, increases inflationary pressures. That is why we are, where we are, with high inflation and actual slowdown of economic growth. We also believe in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that European funds are unrealistically planned in the state budget. According to government projections, only 18.5 million less resources were to be absorbed by the State budget than was foreseen in the budget changes. This is why the government has foreseen that it will draw €738 million from the European Community budget. However, it is clear from previous years' implementation that we have never achieved 100% of the drawback of resources, and therefore, to some extent, the European Union's unrealised revenue is also unplanned. On the basis of the implementation of the State budget in 2007, we have been a net payer in the budget of the European Union because we have paid EUR 395 million in the budget and received funding of EUR 347 million. So it's a negative omen. From January to April this year, we received €67,274,000 from the European Union budget, or only 8.6% of the planned funding in 2008. However, we paid EUR 159,468,000, which is why we are now a net payer of EUR 92 million. Government: Inadequate use of European funds in the first four months, with a negative €90 million, is simply not possible, according to the LDS, to be translated into a positive balance of €420 million. Minister Žagar, at some of the working bodies of this National Assembly, insists on a good pace in the preparation and implementation of projects and that Slovenia will draw on all available resources from the European Union. In the Liberal Democracy we simply do not believe this and believe that at the end of the year the result will be closer to our conclusions. Although the balance of the state budget is expected to have surpluses, the government does not convince us that this is a well-prepared budget. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia they cannot be satisfied with the proposed rebalancing, especially because most of the effects of pre-election legislation are passed on to the next mandate, although no financial resources are provided. Part of these effects are already taken into account in this budget balance, but the fact that the amount of these funds is shown and used only for a few months this year. Since the Government has not prepared a change in the 2009 budget, we cannot know what the real effects of this government's operation will be. We know, however, that next year economic growth will be below 4% of gross social product, which means that the government quasi-reform has in fact not enabled more or more than 5% of economic growth. Because of all the above, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia cannot support the budget, which increases public spending and pressures on inflation. That is why we will therefore vote against the adoption of the 2008 budget rebalancing. In this budget, we are particularly surprised to learn that savings are being made at the expense of the social protection of the materially disadvantaged. And we would expect that, with this high inflation, these funds, for this socially sensitive group of people, will increase, but not decrease. We regret that, in explaining the balance, the Government has stated that the reason for the reduction of the funds on the social security item represents savings on the sub-programme for the purpose of agreeing to delete from the proposal of the novel of the Health Insurance Act the articles setting out the allowances for socially disadvantaged insured persons, the supplements to the full value of health services and the payments after the second paragraph of Article 2 to 5 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. With the proposed amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we draw attention to another empty promise of this government. The payment of supplements or supplementary health insurance premiums for certain categories of insured persons was a considerable financial burden and the Coalition Treaty already provided for a suitable premium payment solution for these insurers. According to the invoice submitted by health service providers, payments are actually paid directly by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, collected the necessary data and submitted, at the end of the year, a refund of payments to the Ministry of Health, which is to be submitted to the Ministry of Finance for payment of the claim. The increase in resources is therefore proposed under item 9294, Health care of socially disadvantaged persons. According to the initial calculations, it is estimated that some 64 000 insurers will be involved and the payments would be made in view of the actual use of health services. In previous discussions, we advised the government to reduce funds on material costs, on investment transfers, all this is not seen in the budget, and therefore obviously the opposition did not listen in this part. According to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the budget is therefore too "restrictive" to actually influence high inflation. The budget is too "restrictive" in the fact that the expenditure of the state budget is growing much more than the growth of economic growth. All this is the reason that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we do not see the possibility of supporting such a budget rebalancing. Mr Minister, who comments behind me, will not understand this, but I hope that he will respond to some of these findings in his debate and answers. And at the end of the day, I would like to ask Mr Bajuk about another part of the budget, which has an internal label and I cannot speak of it at this time. On the other hand, it is the Slovenian Security Intelligence Service, and we received the document from the Government, 8. 5. is dated, and the Members we received in a closed envelope know what we are talking about. I would like to ask publicly about the record and some findings or some part of the text about what is said about the Security Intelligence Service, but it seems to me that the matter is not such that it could not be asked publicly, but you at this point due to the risk that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u14	Mr Friday, if you want to discuss these issues, we will close the public meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u15	I'll tell you, Mr. President. That's what I was gonna say. Because I do not want anyone to tell me that I have discovered this question and put it out in public, but as I said in the Slovenian Security Intelligence Service, Minister Bajuk in a closed envelope or in an envelope I am submitting a written question to you. And if you think that the answer and the question cannot be addressed in public, I would like to ask you now, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, to close the public meeting when we come to this question or answer it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u16	Are you done? Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! We support the 2008 balance of the budget in the Member State of New Slovenia because a number of circumstances have arisen since the adoption of the 2008 budget which require such an approach. One such is the change in macroeconomic origins which have a significant impact on the level of budgetary revenue. Other very important circumstances are the many new laws adopted in the National Assembly aimed at improving the material situation of those who have the most financial problems in terms of relatively high inflation. If we stop a little bit at income first, we can find that they are significantly higher by the original budget and that they are more than €250 million, which is encouraging and will significantly help to cover the additional obligations that the National Assembly has adopted under legislation. In New Slovenia, we are particularly pleased that for as many as EUR 162 million, 465 000 is increasing income from corporate income tax, which shows a very good economic situation. It is also important that these good business results are largely achieved in exports, which also means that our economy is competitive. Another very high increase of €71 million is expected in excise duties, which are increasing despite higher prices and despite the tobacco law. It is obvious that despite different expectations, some things, such as passenger cars and cigarettes, are difficult to give up. The third, in terms of the increase, is the value added tax, which is expected to be EUR 27 million, 789 000, which is expected in some ways, as the income of the population has also increased from wages and other benefits. For €8 million, 775 thousand is expected to increase interest, and for €9 million, 703,000, fines are expected to result mainly from stricter traffic penalties under the new legislation. Several of us in the New Slovenia Group are concerned about the reduction of planned revenue from European Union funds. Especially because in the past we have not achieved the objectives set in some segments. It is interesting, however, in our view, that income from income does not increase, despite the fact that wages in the public sector and also in many economic sectors have increased over the originally planned frameworks. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that this is mainly due to additional income benefits of EUR 2 000 for those who receive the lowest wages. We are also convinced in the New Slovenia Group that the salary increases we have witnessed in the last period will also result in higher income from income. The relatively good economic situation and high incomes result in the great desire of individual budget consumers on the expenditure side. However, since the Government and the coalition are following in addition to the objective of covering the legal obligations that were adopted in the National Assembly, the objective of turning the budget deficit for 2008 into a budgetary surplus will also be that some ministries have less resources than was foreseen in the original budget. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this is good and that in this way the government and the coalition contribute through budgetary spending to defusing inflation. As far as individual ministries are concerned, first mention must be made of the important savings at the Ministry of Finance in the amount of EUR 30 million in contributions from the pension budget. This savings are mainly due to higher original revenues resulting from higher employment and also higher wages, which has a positive impact on income levels. It is important to mention that, as a result of this reduction in pension and other rights arising from pension and disability insurance, they will not change. In addition to savings, the Ministry of Finance plans some new liabilities, such as the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank of EUR 14 million, 585,401 and the New Maribor Credit Bank of EUR 63 million, which is essential if the State wants to retain the planned equity stake, which is important in the management and possible subsequent sale. We also agree with the increase in the mandatory budget reserve of €13 million, which is essential for the recovery of the consequences of the storms in the railways and other areas affected by the storms. Under the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the funds increase by €32 million, mainly on the lines of transfers to households and individuals. This is mainly about increasing children's allowances of 8.4%, which we are particularly happy about in the New Slovenia Group. We are convinced that the family policy led by this government, which is particularly supported by Nova Slovenija, has produced positive results, not least showing the number of births that are increasing from year to year. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that it is necessary to do more for families, especially for large families, in the future. That we will also keep the trend of increasing the number of births in the coming years. This is essential for the future of Slovenia and, last but not least, for the future functioning and sustainability of our pension system, which, however, will have problems due to the lack of births in the future. At the Ministry of Public Administration, €28 million was allocated for public sector wage coverage, which increased by 3.4% in January to relevant ministries. The increase in wages was agreed between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative public sector unions, mainly due to the increase in prices of living needs and also to cover wage imbalances. The implementation of the law on the regression of a warm meal for all students in September 2008 is also an important achievement of this rebalancing, according to the New Slovenia Group. It is particularly important for us to make it possible, in particular, to provide for the healthy nutrition of students during a significant life period and to contribute at the same time to family budgets, in particular those families that have at the same time a higher number of children in school. To this end, EUR 12 million has already been foreseen for 2008, which, in our view, will be very usefully loaded. With the 2008 budget rebalancing, it is also envisaged for €36 million less for investments in equipment for the Slovenian Army, which is not in line with the goals we have taken when we enter NATO, but in New Slovenia we will support the proposal if the Ministry of Defence considers that this will not negatively affect our equipment and adaptation to NATO standards. The funds will also decrease slightly at the Ministry of Transport, in the construction and maintenance of state roads, by EUR 12 million, 535 000, which is not good in our view, because some of the work already planned will be slightly further away in the future, as well as by EUR 7 million, 188 000 in rail transport. For the New Slovenia Group, it is also extremely important that the balance sheet foresees a budget surplus for the second year in a row, which will undoubtedly have positive effects for the next budget preparers, as, according to the year 2004, in which this government and this coalition entered, the starting point will be significantly more favourable. We would like to conclude that the work of this government and also of the Ministry of Finance in this mandate, in our view, has been extremely successful since, last but not least, outstanding results have been achieved. Let me just list some. Extremely high economic growth has been achieved, which in this way includes us already close to the average of the European Union on gross social product per capita. Public spending has been significantly reduced by more than 3% of GDP in this mandate. Exports and profits have increased significantly, as a result, in our view, of favourable economic conditions and also of good tax policies, which have contributed significantly to these results. Investments and investments in fixed assets and infrastructure have increased. This mandate has also significantly increased employment by more than 30 000. The number of births is steadily increasing from year to year in this mandate, which is extremely important for the future of Slovenia. The only worse point of this mandate is relatively high inflation in the last year, which is not the result of inadequate government policy, but not a fully regulated market for world food prices and also extremely high oil prices, which we hope will soon be calmed down. In these cases, too, in our view, the Government and the coalition have responded appropriately, as they have adopted a number of solutions that have improved the material situation of the affected. In 2004, the government and the coalition adopted a final account of the former government, which brought a budgetary deficit of approximately cca. €335 million, and for some €292 million more, the deficit was masked. This together amounts to €627 million or a comparatively approximately 6,000 dwellings that Slovenia would urgently need. It is evident that the legacy of this government will be, given that the 2008 rebalancing foresees a surplus of approximately cca. 70 million euros, much better. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a rebalancing because we believe it is a good one. Finally, I would dare to ask another question to the drafters of the Social Democrats electoral programme, who, as one of the first changes, if they win the elections and make up the government, predict a change in tax legislation. I wonder if they're going to lower taxes or raise taxes? I am afraid that they will increase them just as much as we have reduced them in this mandate and thereby significantly exacerbate the conditions of management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Nice greetings, honourable President, distinguished Secretary of State, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget prepared by the Government on the basis of the revised macroeconomic baselines prepared by UMAR and on the basis of the newly adopted legislation, because it affects both the revenue and expenditure sides of the State budget. We are pleased to support the Government's decision to reduce expenditure in order to improve the budget balance by proposing this balance. As last year, a budget surplus will also be created this year, thus contributing to greater macroeconomic stability of the country and the anti-cyclical movement of public finances. In any case, the budget balance is also counter-inflation-oriented. By creating a budget surplus or a smaller spending than the envisaged Government is also trying to influence inflation relief. As can be seen from the general part of the budget and the explanation, this "sufficiency" will be created to a greater extent at the expense of reducing investments in certain development-oriented ministries, which is not the best. However, we cannot pursue all the objectives at this time, and we welcome and support the stated goal of the rebalancing proposer for the benefit of all Slovenian citizens, as has already been said. Let us take a look at some macroeconomic starting points that are the basis for the budget rebalancing proposal. Economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia was highest in 2007 after independence. Employment growth 2.7%, unemployment rate declined significantly, from 9.4% to 7.7%, from 6% to 4.9%. Gross wage per employee has risen by 2.2% and annual inflation has been 5.5%, mainly due to the rise in oil prices and the rise in food prices in global markets. The forecast of economic trends for 2008 is still positive economic growth of 4.4%, employment growth of 1.1%, employment growth is expected to continue to decline, and a gradual decline in annual inflation is also envisaged. Therefore, if we listen well to the above information, that in this beautiful country of Slovenia not everything is as black as some are working hard or trying to prove. There are problems, we all know that both the government and the coalition are trying to solve them as best we can. There is poverty - yes - even in our country, but we are not alone. All European and global countries are faced with exactly the same problems and to a much greater extent. On this occasion, let me express the view that our country, as a social state, has a great deal of attention for these kinds of problems and that it is also adequately addressing them. It is true, however, that we will never all be satisfied with the situation as it is, and so is the case, because dissatisfaction is one of the basic drivers of progress in society. Let us take a look at the revenue and expenditure side of the draft budget rebalancing. We see that the projected rebalancing revenue is 2.8% higher than in the current budget for 2008. We are therefore talking about 250 million euros in higher revenues than anticipated. Part of these increased revenues are derived from tax revenues, mainly due to higher estimates of corporate tax revenues, which is 14% higher than planned excise duties and value added tax. We see that some of the projected revenues, mainly from EU funds, have been reduced, but we believe that for objective reasons that have not been created on Slovenia's side. If we take a quick look at the expenditure component of the budget balance, we see that with a view to achieving the budgetary surplus, the Government has decided to reduce all government budgetary users their financial plans. Budget expenditure is thus reduced by €49.7 million. Despite the guidance previously expressed, we see that some ministries are also experiencing an increase in funds on certain items, such as the Ministry of Public Administration - for the purpose of eliminating wage imbalances resulting from agreements reached and agreements reached within the public sector. The Ministry of Environment and Space is the largest contributor, with almost €14 million. Let me stop at this point and commend the Minister for Environment and Space and the whole Government. This is a means of eliminating the consequences of the storm in the Railways and other municipalities. We can say that in the event of this accident, the State, the ministries and the local community have proved themselves, as never before in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, and we hope that such a quick and effective way of dealing with problems and consequences in cases of natural disasters will become a practice. Let me also mention the increase in resources from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in order to provide funds for an increased child allowance and to raise funds from the Ministry of Education and Sport which will ensure the implementation of the obligation to subsidise the diet of the student. Let me conclude with a forecast that we will support the draft budget rebalancing group of the Republic of Slovenia for all the above reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u21	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present in the hall. At the time of budget rebalancing, the question is always: Is it necessary or not? If necessary - whether it is appropriate or appropriate. This is also the case with the balance of the state budget, which is our topic today. The proposed rebalancing of the state budget is mainly due to the changed public financial framework, partly due to favourable economic developments, as well as other reasons that allow for higher budgetary revenues. Budget revenue, as proposed by the Government, which has been delivered to us, is increasing by EUR 250 million. Most of this increase comes at the expense of tax revenues, of which around 92% of 250 million is at the expense of increased income tax revenues, then 71.5 million at the expense of excise duties, then poor 28 million at the expense of increased VAT inflows, 9.7 million at the expense of increased fines, mainly due to the amended Road Safety Act, and favourable liquidity situations have also resulted in higher interest rates for poor 9 million than so far. If I said earlier that the reasons for increased revenue are favourable economic movements and others - and what are these others? Of course, in addition to favourable economic developments, one of the reasons for the increased revenue tax inflow is also a higher effective tax rate. In addition, excise duties are another moment. Here we can say that the drafter has now "planned" the current budget or that the events on the market have "demented it". The increased excise duty or excise revenue shall be charged on the basis of different movements on the derivative market, in particular by petrol, where a fall was planned and the sale of petrol is increasing, and more than planned, the sale of diesel oil has increased, and something similar is done with tobacco products. This is said to be the case for higher budgetary revenues due to inadequate planning or assessment of inflows in the current budget. Of course, there is something different about the increased VAT inflows, which is due to economic developments and market developments. Interestingly, for 9.7 million, a relatively high number, the revenue generated by fines or fines increases. And in some ways, the announcement of some, expressed at the time when we passed the law to fill the state budget, is confirmed. Of course, revenues, inflows would be even higher than 250 million, estimated or proposed or expected, if there were no failures. In particular, it is concerned about the loss of EU inflows for the poor 19 million, which is the planned and projected figure, but there is a real fear that it will be even less. On the inside of these EU funds, it must be highlighted that it is particularly worrying that this is happening in the area of agriculture and the social fund, of course, I hope that it is only a case where there is no narrow link between these two areas or the reduction of inflows in these two areas from the EU, because the difficulties, weaknesses and irregularities in these two areas were highlighted by the Court of Auditors of the EU this year when it presented its report. However, the explanation of the budget proposal is quite strange when he tries to justify or explain why 19 million EU-led inflows are declining because he tries to explain that 2008 is the last year when the inflows from the previous financial perspective and the second year when the inflows from the current financial perspective are due. From this point of view, it would be logical for the tides to be increased or preserved, not reduced. The loss or reduction of revenue is also attributable to administrative and judicial fees for a poor 10 million. Here we can evaluate in two ways. At the time of the preparation of the current budget, the public financial framework was different, worse, so a 10% increase in these fees was foreseen, now objectively stated, there is no need, and it would also be rather unpopular, and in fact we pay the costs of services with administrative and judicial fees. On the one hand, the idea of a planned 10% increase, as on the other hand, was questionable why not, although it was pre-election time and it was clear that such measures were not being taken at such times. Expenditure on the tabled balance is reduced by EUR 50 million. It's a symbolic number. Relatively, this means 5.6 per cent of the budgetary potential. In revenue, this is five times or more. The composition or reduction of the budget lines is interesting. It is true that there is a symbolic decline in current expenditure for the poor 14 million, but current transfers to social transfers, which have already been well spoken of, are increasing by a good 34 million. However, without denying the need or appropriateness of these transfers, it is interesting that this is done with legislation after the adopted budget, which is not of any quality, that a few months after the revised budget or the adoption of the current budget, the budget expenditure which is not covered is increased and only after the rebalancing festivals are covered. At the same time, we are listening to arguments that a rebalancing is necessary because we have adopted some laws in Parliament that increase costs. But something else is more worrying. Investments are directly reduced by good 34 million and poor 32 million investment transfers or by 66 million euros or 5.6%. As a result, the structure or structure of the budget is deteriorating as the investment share from 15.3 decreases by more than 1 percentage point or 1.2 to 14.1. And one interesting thing is from these figures: that the reduction of investments is about the same size order as the planned budget surplus. Interesting; it may be a case, but it is not necessarily a case. Of course, reducing the investment part of any budget is always a bad solution. However, I think that the overall preparation of this rebalancing was relatively easy, due to the relatively good public financial framework. It is also true that the reduction of investments was also relatively easy. If the public, and so on, welcomes the reduction in the area of defence, the issue of the quality of planning and the objective responsibility for such planning is raised if we can later delete something with our left hand if necessary. Of course, the problem with investment is precisely what is our general weakness, that there are not enough ready projects, and when projects are not ready, it is relatively easy to stop or reduce investments. Although it is an integral budget, an interesting link - to increase income from fines [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in road transport, they do not aim for greater safety and the relative reduction in road and rail investment is being made. Debt [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u22	Mr. Trophynik, time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u23	Yes, I'm sorry, I'll finish right away, just one sentence, chairman, if you don't mind. The budget and the rebalancing are instruments of the Government or positions by which it implements its programme, so it must also assume its responsibility for the preparation, acceptance and implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me introduce that in the DeSUS Group, as well as in the DeSUS, we look forward to all the positive results that have been discussed today, and we are pleased to do so. We are satisfied with the increased balance in last year's account, we are satisfied that we have surplus in the budget, we are satisfied that the debt is being reduced, that the corresponding economic growth is still "conditioning" so that we still have adequate exports and so on and so forth. It is also important that, at statistical level, consideration is also given to improving the situation of those who are social beneficiaries and improving the employment rate of people in our country. We in the Dessus Group do not share an opinion with those who say that this simply happened and that it was so impossible to avoid. Some credit for these results is certain, or at least the activities have been led by the Government, including individual ministries, including us in the National Assembly, and certainly does not indicate that the economy has contributed to such beneficial results. Instead, we must not be euphoric and we will not merely "aclamation" but we also have a question regarding the budget that we want to set up and clarify it with the Ministry's representatives. The trends will probably not be as favourable as they have been so far, indefinitely, exponential growth will of course not be and somehow we are also asked the question of the real picture, which would have been shown when we would have more precisely worked out the realization of the current year. I am therefore afraid that possibly individual ministers are pre-optimistic about drawing on European funds, which the Ministry of Finance must introduce into the budget's balance sheet. We will have to weigh this until the end of the year, whether the forecasts were correct. What does the budget show? We said, the budget shows about 63 million leftovers last year, 250 million more tax revenues, 50 million less expenditure, 70 million euro surplus. The very good results, though not everyone is pleased with them, because they would like to have even higher numbers presented. However, we estimate that these results are good. It is recalled, however, that they were also reached at the expense of the pensioners, that they were reached at the expense of the disabled, at the expense of the unemployed, the fellows and all those who were frozen in last year and were not adequately revalued this year. At least in our view, in the view of the DeSUS Group, this is the case. We also ask: Is it appropriate to reduce the expenditure from the budget to the pension fund by 30 million and at the same time threaten that this will return in such a way that the pension fund will have to pay the jeweler's allowance. This is not the right solution for us. And we are simply asking that this question: would it not be possible to do so from surplus or from any other transfers in the State budget of the Minister and his service, give us an appropriate answer, which will also enable us to support the balance. We are against the fact that the Dragan allowance we support would be charged to the pension fund because it means continuing a mistake called the burden of pensioners' pensions with social transfers. Social transfers are not the subject of a pension fund, we should not be and we see no reason to impose new social assistance on the burden of pensioners. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia will certainly be able to do so. So how will the DeSUS Group decide? In the general assessment, we support the rebalancing. We want answers in these individual questions. Of what kind of answers these will be, from whether or not the Dragan Supplement will not burden the pension fund and from whether we will be able to find other sources for this necessary social transfer for pensioners; there are also transfers for others who earn even less and live some with even less money than some pensioners - so financial resources must be found for this; if so, we will also contribute votes to support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u27	Thank you so much for your words and welcome! At the outset, we will support this proposal for a rebalancing in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. He is thought to be good, even though he has his faults or weaknesses. However, a balance that is fully in line with all the requirements, with all the wishes, cannot be done. The fact is, in spite of all of this, we may be able to deal with some of the starting points a little more carefully. It's hard to speak for everyone who's actually told everything, all the weaknesses. There's no point in talking about the good side anyway, especially if there's a man in the opposition. However, there is certainly something wrong with the use of European funds or the funds received from the European Union. On the revenue side, we will have 20 million euros less than planned. That's not good. I think that the country should try harder at all and spend these European funds, because it will not be long before we can no longer spend them, when the Romanians, the Bulgarians, maybe even Croatia or what I know who else will. This is already happening to a large extent. Slovenians, however, become payers, just as we were payers first in Austria and then in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and in the former SFRJ, when the most money has always gone from Slovenia to certain undeveloped areas and I think it is high time that this matter stops. The Slovenian national party has been pointing to the poor use of European funds by Slovenia all the time and in this mandate, even in previous or in particular in this respect. There has been a slight improvement in this mandate, but certain matters still need to be rectified here. It may also make sense at the Ministry of Finance to settle certain matters in such a way as to give more thought to where to obtain any funds that flow into the state treasury and fill the state budget. I think some officials at the Ministry should think about it, but they don't. It happens quite often that, because of lack of visibility and ignorance, they simply throw through the window the possibilities for large sums that could flow into the state budget. However, there is something interesting about this budget. EUR 36 million is taken from the military. How the Republic of Slovenia will base this on the NATO Pact. After all, we jumped on our noses into NATO, promised to buy weapons, and now we're lowering the military's financial resources. The fact is that Slovenia is also supposed to buy a ship to defend the Slovenian sea, which we certainly need. And I think it would make sense for some money to be prepared to add to the part of the finances that are missing from this clearing debt. A large portion of this ship would be repaid from a clearing debt, something would have to be added. Unfortunately, Russia’s clearing debt, which was about $120 million, remained the same since 1992. And if we compare the interest rates, we see that the country has lost since 1992 and is still losing, instead of settling and closing the matter. Therefore, it is pointless to speak up to some of our fellow Members who say that we will lose this ship. We have already lost an infinite amount of money because the former authorities did not want to do anything in this area. I hope at least this one does something. Indeed, even with the rapid use of certain funds, it is actually acquired or not lost. I wouldn't go much further. I think it is necessary to adopt this balance already because we have adopted some new legislation. Things need to be reconciled with each other. Of course, some of the legislative procedures that will need to be regulated should also be taken into account in this rebalancing. Above all, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs receives almost €27 million, and on the other hand, it does not want to address the problems that we have with those who do not want to retire. We are the only country in the world where someone has a good function, even if it is useless, simply remains in this function and no one can replace it. This has been done by the former authorities to keep their well-deserved policies in beautiful places for a good salary, because if they were to be given a'retirement', of course their revenues are falling significantly. And instead of setting up the state of Slovenia so that if someone wants to stay in this job, they want to agree - both the employee and the employer, it is simply not because of political preferences and because of the protection of some of the old political personnel. There's a lot of money in here to pick him up. The Slovenian proverb says, "He who doesn't does doesn't do it." and I think we should stick to these Slovenian proverbs a little bit more. The truths have been coming in for thousands of years, and we're just pulling them aside with our left hand. The social state is not the one supporting the lazy, the social state is the one taking care of its citizens. But it is important to know that citizens must also have responsibilities and not just rights. As far as the implementation of the state budget is concerned, it is possible that on another occasion, when we talk more specifically about working at the Ministry of Finance, where we should replace quite a few people who do not know, understand or do not want to understand how money is collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u29	Your Honors are here! "He who doesn't does it doesn't do it" for the first time. Another time. "We're people." What if this country, Slovenian politics, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia prevents "the State from being human". What if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia make it impossible for all those who do not feel the same way to carry out their three basic values. And when it comes to values, in the Lipa Group we estimate that the most important three values, which, unfortunately, this year, are again and again a period of time ago, are increasingly deficiting. So the values that our society, which our Slovenian policy ignores, and I fear that it neglects on purpose. The first value is health, the second value is work and the third value is justice. First of all, about health. We have tons of money for weapons, I stress, we have tons for weapons, but we don't have it for an oncology institute, for a new pediatric clinic, for patients with asbestos, and we don't have it for health. Another value is work. Whoever doesn't do it, I heard it earlier. All of us and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia know that a worker in Slovenia today is worthless and that the Slovenian route is towards ultra capitalism with the support of party friends. A worker is worth nothing, a former worker, so a pensioner, is worth nothing, a future worker, a student, is worth nothing. And then let's say whoever doesn't work doesn't? Have we really become such a blind society in this country? Have we really become such a very deaf society in this country? In my opinion, no. According to the assessment of the Lip Group, these values should not be ignored. And third value, justice. All of us, even more so than all the people in our country, who are increasingly accused of having nothing to do and therefore seek their right before the courts. That they are seeking their right in front of the courts because they are bored at home and because the Slovenians like to sue. No! No! I do not believe that this is our characteristic, the Slovenian characteristic. So that people have too much time, and that's why they're looking for their justice through different judicial channels, that's not gonna hold. We all know that, unfortunately, there is a decade or more to go before the court. Once again, I stress all three values. Hello, we're moving away from him. Tons of money, President DeSUS is committed to arming our country. We're moving away from work. Slovenia, unfortunately, is on its way, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only strengthening this path, in the so-called ultra capitalism of friends of the ruling majority. And justice? Every month, ladies and gentlemen, we meet with a law to improve the situation in the courts. He's 12 months old, the government's term is four years, and we meet every month with a law to improve it. None of the laws adopted so far have reduced the social or waiting types. Budget, rebalancing, budget additions, no matter what we call the act before us today. Every government, this former government of the European Union, governments elsewhere in the world are budgeting their priorities. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. The budget is actually that act that shows what the important tasks of a country are. However, no country in the world, with the exception of the Republic of Slovenia, changes its priorities from month to month or adapts them to the so-called D-day or election day. And it is not right and it must not happen that the practice of the current government, the budget-proposer, of the rebalancing proposalr, would also apply to advance governments. They shall not be subject to an apparent priority solely to the date of the election. Or rather, to the electoral month, just because of the electoral month and that later or later these priorities are totally denied, they take away the funds that are now promised for September, so that none of them will receive these funds in October, November or any other day. I mentioned the month of September earlier and what activities were scheduled for September. This year's September and just by chance the September elections are completely different from those announced for September 2005 for September 2006 for September 2007. In September, higher salaries are promised to public servants, September, that is, the month or the day of the election. In September we are promised to increase or witness a child's allowance, September, the month of the state-run elections, the month when the government will try to persuade people again in September and the success of all past Septembers. September will be subsidizing the student diet. Let us forget, we, the whole of Slovenia, that the possibility was September 2005, September 2006, September 2007. No, no, no. It's timed on election day. Last but not least, the speech is about the Dragan allowance for lower-retirement pensioners. While Slovenian policy under the tactic or dictatorship of the Slovenian government has prevented regular and opposite coordination, not only with gross, net wages, but mainly with the criterion that touches each of us and is referred to as, or better said, up to five months ago, it has been called hidden inflation and has been re-emphasized as the swallowing of merchants, only now is the first time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the warning of the lay public, professions, opposition to the threat of inflation has been alerting since 2005. And now we're at the moment when the minister who's been sitting behind me for years and years is closing his eyes, we're at the moment when he's been shut up for years and years, and finally his ears. I will not tell that story, which is told by those who do not sit in Parliament and have a problem of survival from month to month, about the South American State, about their influence, about the collapse not only of the capital market, but of life in general. But it didn't hurt any of the political friends in that South American country, and it didn't hurt any of the capital friends. But ladies and gentlemen, blinding the eyes, ears and mouth before the fact in our country is the same, whether it is evil or negative, as if wrong decisions are being made. It's not our job, it's not the government of the Republic of Slovenia's job to move. For this purpose, we have called all too many other institutions within our country working under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But don't make it all so black for those who might be watching us on TV screens. I also apologize that viewers can't watch at this time, as has been the case with the Lipa Group several times, I think not least a month or two ago, the statistics on the screens. We also put a question on this subject, but nothing, because the statistics you could see on the TV screens with the chart facing up, but probably the whole opposition, profession and not least the statistics could show downwards. But this is power, this is the power of the government, which we cannot deny, and it is right that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a certain power, but it is wrong to exploit this power. It exploits its own wealth and uses it to create misery and patheticity for the vast majority of citizens and citizens. As I have already said, funds, funds for or directly to the Government Communications Office are increasing throughout the year or last period. I'm not saying anything at the government communications office, given that he's extremely susceptible to lies, it's only right to send them to some fair or principled seminar. As regards the budgetary revenues that are before us in the proposal for the 2008 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, allow me to point out a sentence or two in conjunction with the day before the read interview of the Secretary of State, Mr Šircl. The Secretary of State has pointed out and beaten his chest in the sense that we have in our country the final effect or effect of the so-called Laffer curve or its effect. This is the effect of how with lower tax rates to obtain more money. How to make tax rates more acceptable for people who fill the budget. In the meantime, the Secretary of State, Sircelj, has forgotten whether he has lied or spoken inaccurately and has not pointed out that in the context of tax revenues, I stress that the tax revenues are those which each country, Slovenia, unfortunately, are heavily collected from citizens and citizens. And why? Because we all know that only taxes and death are upon us and that we cannot influence them as citizens or as individuals. Thus, the country's revenues from various taxes have increased significantly, so that citizens and citizens are in any form placed in the state budget from any title, i.e. the area of public finances, which, later on, Minister of Defence, President DeSUS, is skillfully committed to the purchase of arms, or any other minister is skillfully committed to the purchase of his money, the influence on the media, the allocation of funds to state-owned companies, of course, these companies will later not forget in the millions of dollars to finance the internal press, whether the SDS or NSI. In short, the circle between us is very nicely rounded. But the circle is very small and the circle is very few people comfort. Outside this circle is half three quarters of Slovenia. And when it comes to the so-called Laffer effect, the one with lower taxes, you say that Slovenia has reduced the scope of taxes, the extent of tax rates. This is, of course, a story in which at least we, politicians, will never come through or together. This is a story that is best left to citizens and citizens with a simple and correct question: Did your incomes of years, two backs, give you a better quality of life than today? If their incomes are, let the pensions, which are almost gone, also the pension - the amount is such that it is almost meaningless to speak, allow for better material survival for citizens, allow for more direct payment, stories of positions that have been completely lost in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the meantime, degraded, as it has degraded and minimized the role of all those in our country who are not worthy of survival, according to the position and assessment of Prime Minister Janez Janša. And what's interesting about all this is that you also allow that story about minimum wage. On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly decided, without any explanation, to raise the minimum wage for a few euros. Not at our expense, not at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but at the expense of businesses, employers. But you know who gets cream all over the story?Oh, my God! Mr. Bayuk! Mr Bajuk, in the whole story of raising the minimum wage, picks up the cream, because we have again blindly and deafly taken people for a few 10 euros into the higher income class and this higher income class will bring them into new, larger tax commitments to the country, to the Minister of Finance - Mr Bajuk. I'll touch two or three ministries. Especially those who have been most transparently beaten again on the shoulders, chest, how much they work in the service of people. First time. Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We are increasing their funds by EUR 26.8 million. That's right. In addition, we subsidise or provide additional funds for subsidies to pensioners' homes. But in doing so, we all forget again whether we keep our eyes closed, that it is subsidies to those pension homes whose ownership is private or private, and that for the same cycle subsidies are being reduced, which are intended for the institution of pension homes, where Slovenia is. Even in this area, ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed on that ultra-capitalism, a private friend of the SDS will receive new larger subsidies up to EUR 30 million, while that role, which is in the public good, is decreasing for that same amount. The Ministry of Health, as another example, due to the time limit, to date, we still have the funds allocated or reserved in the adopted budget for the legal arrangements for payment of supplementary health insurance premiums. It's a pretty complicated sentence. In other words, up to this point, and probably about 10 hours later, we have reserved funds for 65 thousand, so that I will not overdo it, say 62 thousand citizens and citizens, those to whom we are hiding, socially threatened, so that they can draw from this title any more rights than the current minimum right. And what does the Minister do? When these reserved funds are taken away from her, she shall immediately vote in favour of a proposal for a rebalancing or a proposal for amending the budget, despite the fact that 60,000 people, in particular 62 000, will be deprived of all supplementary health insurance rights under this heading. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the budget we have ahead of us! And the Department of Defense. The Ministry of Defence is headed by the President of DeSUS. DeSUS, Democratic Party of the Retired Republic of Slovenia! In 2005, 2006 and 2007, for the purposes of signing the President of the Pension Party, €700 million was spent in this country for the purchase of weapons that we cannot use in our country! Which we can't use in Styria, Gorenjska, Primorska, anywhere. We buy ships, planes, helicopters, we have a military announcement from anyone? No! No! But the Minister for Pensioners, the Minister of Defence, has repeatedly said, "no, we can't touch that, my priority is the armament of Slovenia." Today, just before the end of the term of office, he says that he can give up 36 million euros, specifically, for the first time, we will withdraw from the acquisition of a tactical transport aircraft - indeed, in Slovenia we need it, uh, extremely! [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] We will withdraw from the purchase of heavy reconnaissance vehicles marked RKBO - indeed, Slovenia needs them! We're going to rescind or postpone the Cougar helicopter upgrade. We'll postpone the purchase of the 4x4 bikes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u30	Mr. Pache, time's up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u31	Mr President, believe me, I'm not running out of time. The government is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u32	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual parts of the national budget's proposal for a rebalancing. As an individual part, the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal, the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal and the development programme plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Mr. Secretary has spoken. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to explain a few points that have been highlighted in the presentations of the groups of Members, and I think they need a little more clarity, not only in the National Assembly, but also in the general Slovenian public following this debate. First, I would like to talk about the question of the recapitalisation of the Maribor Credit Bank, the Maribor Credit Bank. What is the point of this problem? Of course, this is how they used to sell, and now look at what they're doing. The purchase will now recapitalize and then add mocking sentences, which we are already used to, but we just need some clarity on this matter. I have already said several times, and I will say this again that, as far as banks are concerned, we must be very careful and sober that we do not actually incite on the basis of short-term political statements that are supposed to have their effects or values, this is an area that needs to be talked about seriously, economically and soberly. New Credit Bank Maribor has taken part in privatisation, the first attempt in Slovenia, which can be described as successful, selling shares in public offering to people and the rest to well-educated investors. 49% of the capital was so privatized. The documentation used to do this is a so-called prospectus known not only to the Slovenian public, approved by the Securities Market Agency, but also by the foreign public; it was a world offer. He could have called in whoever was ready. This document clearly states and stated that Nova Credit Bank Maribor does not need a short period of time, it was also obviously said as far as 2008 is concerned that it will not need recapitalisation. The fact is that the situation as it was and still is that there is a place in the New Bank of Credit Maribor on the so-called additional capital - we have the core capital on the one hand and, on the other hand, with additional capital, in accordance with the law and in accordance with all the principles that are also consistent with the Basel two directives, a perfectly normal situation could be one banking institution, and this would be the New Bank of Credit Maribor, hiring long-term assets, otherwise outside our borders, and thus financing its normal business. What happened? It has happened that the current situation in international markets and relations between banking institutions, not only in Europe, but around the world, practically makes it impossible for this to happen either at some reasonable price or even to occur. Since this is impossible, and also talks with Banka Slovenija, it is important that for its normal development New Credit Bank Maribor will need some recapitalisation, i.e. increasing its core capital, so that it will not be able to use this option, which additional capital creates and still has. As far as this is concerned, certain calculations have been made and it would therefore be necessary if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still the direct owner of a certain share in the New Credit Bank Maribor, after the first calculations of €63 million. €63 million is thus included in this budget. It's still not definitive. Why isn't it final? Simply because the congregation has not yet decided to do so. In this rebalancing, however, the government foresees that if the Assembly votes and decides to recapitalise it, we also agree with the Bank of Slovenia that this recapitalisation must be done and we will vote in the Assembly as well. However, from a formal point of view, this is not yet definitive, but the funds are ready because we do not want the Government to lose its share in such an important decision, and in particular in order to ensure the normal functioning of this institution. This isn't about any weird stuff. The fact is that the situation and how relations have developed and the whole atmosphere in international capital markets prevents what was written in the prospectus from happening in this period and therefore requires this recapitalisation after our assessment. That is why we propose it, and this is also included here. However, there is no provision for any additional funds relating to the recapitalisation of NLB. The situation in NLB is slightly different in that they have already used up their comprehensive so-called additional capital so-called that it must come to this and the government has already done so. But the government did it in a very clear way. I don't know why there are certain questions here, as far as this balance is concerned, because this has already been done. However, it was carried out on the basis of the funds, the funds we had at our disposal. However, the Government has waived its priority right and waived it in part to the DSU and, in essence, to the Insurance Company Triglav. This is the case for some withdrawal, as far as direct ownership by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned. That's what's going on. This procedure is going on. And every mention of NLB in this rebalancing is completely pointless. The only things they create are certain images of what is supposed to be happening on our market. As the finance minister and the first to be responsible for the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia in these two banks, I must state once again publicly that we are absolutely convinced that these are both solid institutions in which there is no crisis of any kind or otherwise. Each speech in a different direction is only negative and creating an image that in no way corresponds to reality. That's what the bank is about. However, the second point is how the full funding is presented by the budget as regards the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. Back in those years, when we fell through legislation in our country, and even before we were in the common country, contributions to the pension register, there was also a responsibility by the Republic of Slovenia to supplement the budget's needs every year. This is a key principle that has been adopted, and this is how the system works. PIZ has its own revenue coming from contributions that can be calculated on the basis of wage movement. However, if additional resources are needed in the light of the planned expenditure, this shall be covered by the budget. If some have observed in this balance sheet, as we have said, that these additional funds, which were foreseen in 2008 as complementary means to enable PIZ to carry out its obligations, will be reduced, why will they be reduced? Not because we are taking something, as some have so vividly pictured, we are not taking anything, no one is taking anything. The only thing that is happening is that these complementary funds, which, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, have to contribute to the budget every year and offer the PPIZ, will be smaller because the higher mass of wages is being paid. Because employment has increased, less resources are needed, not more to take. No justice has changed. This is also the answer to a question or part of the basis for an answer to a question raised by one of the parliamentary groups regarding the so-called Draganj allowance for raising the prices of living needs currently under preparation, in discussions at the professional services in the various ministries working on it, and it is possible that the Government will also make a decision on this and the National Assembly. What can I tell you about this matter now? Very simple. The Ministry of Finance cannot foresee and include in the balance sheet of the budget some funds for a law that is not yet in place. That's just not how it works. We have to work on the law. This is how we have done that, so that we can have all the resources available for those things that we know are going to happen. If this supplement comes to pass, and I can tell you that such an supplement will be very possible, we will resolve this within transfers and additional savings by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all budgetary users, either direct or direct. If the National Assembly adopts such a law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will implement such a budget as it is in the aggregate. These additional resources, which are or will be necessary to implement such a law, will be resolved within the framework of this balance that is before you today. Finally, a comment on the question raised by the LDS Group regarding the Owl. Without the need to close the session, I can provide you with the following. The increase in wages in this balance does not mean that this is an increase in staff. I can assure you that. Indeed, it is an increase because it has been foreseen in the past that there will be a human resources policy or a human resources plan to be implemented in a different way, to have fewer employees. In fact, it was not carried out as envisaged. That is why they need additional resources, only as a supplement for those who are actually already working there. As for material costs, however, there is only one supplement or some reallocation. So far, certain rents have been paid by the Ministry of Public Administration. These were transfers from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Owl as such. And that's what you see now in this budget. I can also explain further details later, either on a personal level. But if more details are required, we'll go to a closed session. But there's not much more information. Nothing is hidden or hidden as far as that is concerned. The increase you see in the budget, as far as wages are concerned, is not an increase in staff, but the result is that they have not been reduced, as the agency has predicted in the past. These are transfers from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Owl directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u34	Thank you very much. As we say, we are in the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Since I know that you will be discussing Members and Members of Parliament, please apply within the time available. It's still available for a few hours. I'm asking you to sign up. Minister, can you stay in the hall? Thanks for the application. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! I hope you will hear me, though you are leaving the Chamber of Parliament. In fact, it is a question which I have already raised on the working body and which is also related to the answer that you have given to Members and Members of Parliament today, and I believe that we cannot be satisfied with it. This is a question that has been referred to the budget item or the financial envelope within the budget. Given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a so-called dragan supplement, which, by the way, will not be given to all those who fall below the poverty threshold. From this set, at least as far as I know, a large number of those who live on the threshold or below the poverty threshold are not receiving a regular pension, but are receiving only a pension refund of less than EUR 500. But I wanted to get a concrete answer, because a well-known practice is, even under the Rules of Procedure, if the Government or any of the Members who have the opportunity to bring the law into Parliament's procedure must clearly and clearly define the financial consequences that must be provided in the budget. If we are talking today about the budget rebalancing and we have one more fact that the government will come just before the elections with a Draganj allowance for some number of pensioners, where are the financial implications provided in the budget? What's the line? From what source will the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Finance, ensure payment of the Danish Supplement? Not from the pension fund! The pension box is not intended to resolve social distress. The pension register has another purpose, in fact, even today, we have heard that there is a decline in funds in the pension register. So the question remains: From what item will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finance the so-called dragan supplement? By the way, the Dragan supplement, it sounds very strange and I will now be a little ironic - Dragan supplement if the government keeps saying that we are, I don't know, in a period of bloom. I had previously listened to the speech of Prime Minister Janez Janša and wondered whether he was talking about the Republic of Slovenia, or whether he was talking about a lady named Alice or Alice who lived in a magical fairyland. And when the Minister of Finance said a few minutes ago that no one was taking anything. Dear colleagues, it's not true! It's taken on the wrong settings. It's taken by the Ministry of Health. My fellow Member, Sašo Peče, mentioned - you are taking on the health-care line of socially disadvantaged people. I know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also knows that several initiatives have been addressed to the Government, by the Lip Group of Members, by the Association of Retired Associations, including by trade unions, that the government should come to the aid within the Ministry of Health, because today people can no longer pay supplementary health insurance. EUR 25 per month is too much for people who receive only EUR 200 of financial social assistance. And if someone hopes to compare Slovenia with Scandinavian countries, respected colleagues and colleagues, 200 euro of monetary social assistance, that is, if we calculate it, about 7 euros a day. Does 7 euros a day, I ask you, really guarantee social security for an individual? I say no. Seven euros costs two sandwiches in a store across the street from the National Assembly. When European demonstrations or demonstrations of European workers were held in Ljubljana, the requirement of German workers was that workers with a minimum wage should have an hourly heading of €7. Do you have any idea how many hourly employees there are with minimum wage in our country? Less than 2 euros. It's a reality. But today we are talking about the budget rebalancing, and this was also a question that was raised on the Committee of Minister Bajuk, and it did not answer. The only answer was, "No, there will be no tax changes." A worker with a minimum wage, who received an increase of EUR 28.26 gross due to the government law, which is a good 10 euro net, will fall into the higher income class due to the unchanged tax legislation, the income scale, due to the regress paid, and will have to pay more tax to the State. But nobody cares. The balance of the budget, believe it or not, is also taken by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the work of the social protection of persons at risk. Financial resources are falling for, if I am not mistaken, €7 million. And then, Mr. Sok, I'll tell you the exact numbers if you challenge me. 7 million euros and the explanation given by the government to reduce the number of unemployed. Realistically, and also, I hope that you will also read the answers received by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, there Minister Cotmanov openly speaks about how many additional records for the various categories of unemployed have been introduced in our country under this government. However, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia boasts of numbers that unemployment has decreased, it speaks of only one category of the unemployed. These are registered unemployed or active job seekers. Because of the Social Protection Act, the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act makes it very difficult or very fast for people to fall out of this official category of unemployed and move into another category and lose all rights, but these people are still unemployed. And in my opinion, unemployed people are also disabled workers. But they are not kept in this record of active unemployment. Today, with the rebalance of the budget or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we have heard that the balance will be adopted, it reduces the social protection of the materially disadvantaged. Consider again, fellow Members and colleagues, a few amendments have been tabled and with these amendments we want to correct what the government is doing wrong, which is a mistake of this government. And as I mentioned earlier, for a moment I'm going to touch on the Ministry of Health and on the resources already reserved to some extent under the 2008 budget for, I'm going to say, helping people who can't pay supplementary health insurance. I believe that the Government has made a calculation that these persons, who should be or should be entitled to this assistance, are too. Essentially too much to cover the aid from those funds reserved in the budget. That's why the government took the shortest and easiest route. These reservations and these financial assets have simply been deleted. Approximately EUR 4 million. Instead of adopting the law that was in preparation, the Law on the Health Care of Persons, under the letter L, this law was in preparation. But apparently, the government has run out of time and government, too, because the priorities in our country are different. Today I ask myself, and I also ask myself, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance: Is the Dragan Supplement really so very positive when it comes to the fact that with supplementary health insurance, not in a single amount, but in the long term, they can improve the situation of these people? If the supplementary health insurance is about EUR 25 per month, then I believe that you can calculate very quickly how many months you will be paid your Dragan allowance or that people will not get as much as they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is with us. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope the minister's listening. I'm going to talk about two things, revenue, expenditure and then these unfortunate NLB recapitalisations. First, with regard to this so-called basic response, to which the Minister did not respond. And that is, said the Prime Minister and the Minister that the Government is anti-cyclical. We argue that the government works pro-cyclically because it increases spending by more than 13%, and that is more than it would take to reduce inflation. Why is that? This is because we all pay our income this year. And the income index in the state budget, which also includes income payments for previous years, we are paying off the cash flow principle, is 120. 120 is also due to the fact that, yesterday or for a few days, we approved a law on the financing of municipalities, which no longer grants funds to the congregations, but takes the basis of 2006 and then increases something. And that is because we are increasing and we have a high effective taxation of the economy. And all of this is transferred on the expenditure side in the expenditure index, which is impossible to get high. The government says it's limited material costs. Do you know how much the index of material costs is in 2008 in relation to the implementation of 2007? Almost 20%. The fifth increase in consumption is the increase in material costs. I think it's about 19.8. And that's against cyclical activity? Please! And now it's about this story that really needs the balance. What the minister said is very interesting. He says they can't include the Draganj allowance because there's no law. Let me remind you, three years ago it was included in the budget media fund and we have not yet had a law. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We didn't have a marriage, that's the point. We also know how much it takes. And now the minister says that there will be no marriage, but that, as he said, the Dragan supplement may be, or I don't know, depending on what it will look like, with the ratings, I suppose it will be important. Then they will go with, I don't know, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly following an emergency procedure and it will be a dragen supplement. It's not a problem. We're for the dragnet supplement. We proposed it a year ago. It's not the best solution, but don't say here today that it's not possible with some amendments that we've designed, because, in saying, "it's not the law yet". In the end, it's about banks. The only reason we need a rebalancing is the recapitalisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank. I don't know if you listened very carefully to the minister, but I grabbed my wallet. I don't know if you've listened very carefully to the Minister! And now, Mr Pache, I suppose we can still be at an open meeting. Mr. Vice President, are we still in an open session? Mr Minister said, I quote, "that Nova Credit Bank Maribor, otherwise, in narration, can increase the required amount of capital also by borrowing abroad," but he said, "that this is not possible in today's financial crisis. That's why the government decided to recapitalise." What if you're not up for this? What if Members of the ruling coalition aren't in favour of recapitalising the NKBM? Do you know what that means? And it's irresponsible to do the Minister of Finance who talks about it here. Not to mention, of course, the recapitalisation of the NLB, where it says that the government is withdrawing because, instead of the government, the Insurance Company Triglav, which is majority owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and some DSU d.o.o., a consulting and management company, the former SRD, which, by the way, gives its director 150,000 euros of credit. These two companies recapitalised NLB. Mr State Secretary is the President of the Supervisory Board, he was the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board, and he knows exactly what core capital means, additional capital, as capital adequacy and so on. And what the Minister is doing today is, following an urgent procedure, accepting a rebalancing, that we will have the appropriate capital adequacy of the NKBM, gentlemen of Styria, watch your wallets.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your discussion. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-known representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that the budget is the most important document for me, the same is true for the budget balance that is adopted in the National Assembly, so that the executive branch of the Authority can either carry out its tasks directly or directly. This is why the 2008 budget balance, which is a good one containing all the supplements, needs to be adopted both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, which happened in view of last year's adoption of the budget. I am very surprised, however, how acceptable the budget would be for some, specifically for my colleague Brickle, if it contained the following solutions. I listened to him very well when he reasoned on SD's views and talked about nominal expenditure growth. The nominal increase in expenditure in the budget balance is probably 13.6%, as he mentioned. And for him, it would be a countercyclical budget, if these expenditure were between 4% and 6%, he made that clear. But, dear colleagues, what did he really want, what kind of budget would he have for 2008? For the first time in the budget, we have a surplus, or actually a second time, given the 2007 final account - an surplus of €70 million. He wants to have over 600 million euros! 600 million euros! Since there are real incomes on the income side, no one can tell us that they are not. 600 million euros in surplus. Given that we had tolars years ago, I think that's about 140 billion tolars when we're talking about the number when the budget was about 1,900 and 2,000 billion tolars. Yeah, and the people of God, are you, in your own words, kidding?Oh, my God! For 12 years, you had the opportunity to create at least one tolar surplus. Now you're talking about 600 million euros. These are the calculations. Unless someone with some arguments would explain here or there would be reasons to reduce the revenue side. But there is no reason why so much funding will not flow into the budget. But you know, listening to such a statement that we have put an additional burden on the economy because it will be on the revenue side, I think there is an increase of € 160 million in inflows, more in the form of corporate income tax. Now I don't know if anyone can count a percentage or count numbers. However, if the tax was reduced from 25 to 23% compared to last year. The consequences of why there is so much more money on or from this segment have been made clear by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. I don't think it's necessary for everyone here to be able to explain again about good economic growth in the past year and other indicators that have had a positive impact on the budget itself on the revenue side. You know, the only thing I agree with is my colleague Squill talking about the law and what you can put into the budget. What the finance minister said is true. You have to have a marriage if you want to include financial resources in the budget. And my colleague Cvikl said that three years ago, it really was, I think it was a billion dollars old, it was in the budget when we didn't have a law on the media fund or the media. And even then I agreed, and I still agree with him today, and that's the only thing he said in those four years, I'm not going to say now, smart or what I agreed with him. And without law, we certainly cannot include financial resources in the budget, either on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. Today, there was no talk of the problem of national economic balance or imbalance. That was the main theme on the board. There was no talk of this today, for it is likely that someone realized that what he was explaining at the time was not true. With regard to the so-singed social security of materially endangered people. It's math again. If, in this year or in the last period, 10 thousand are less unemployed and that financial resources or subsidies, or what we should call them, are limited to any unemployed person at some level, then this means, in fact, that this needs to be rectified in the balance sheet. I can't agree with Comrade Tavševa at all, if she has a social sense, which is right, we all have in the National Assembly, that we will now divide this amount of money into those who will be subsidised in the future. If this is 210 euros, I think it's 210 euros, censorship - yes, but then these unemployed people can't get more than someone who works! But we do know how many speculators are involved - that he will have only the goal of not seeking a job or that he will rather be unemployed than working. I would also support some increase, a few percent, but this is clearly defined, as we cannot change it overnight. And I don't think there's any argument here. I think the colleague didn't think badly, but there's a very real balance in this area, or a fixed balance in the budget balance for this area, because we have this number of unemployed people less. With regard to the drawing-up of European funds. I firmly believe that, in the second half of the year, much more of the European funds will be spent than in the first half of the year, not to mention the first third of the year, given that projects are beginning to take place somewhere early in the summer, in the second half. And I am also convinced that both local communities and individual ministries will draw maximum of these funds in 2008. It is also true that it is not critical if anything remains, given that this is still a transitional period. However, I would be disappointed if the Ministry or the Ministry of Finance planned something neo-optimist. They should plan for real, and I think it's real. You know, to prepare such a budget rebalance, I don't think you need to be some kind of wizard, but you have to be a good master. And that's what the Ministry of Finance showed. But we are also all, the whole Government, and all those who voted in the National Assembly for the adoption of certain laws that mean reducing the social problems that have indeed occurred in the last period due to the inflation that you have supported. And all of us who supported this have actually contributed our share in order for this balance to be drawn up or adjusted to the budget. And the balance is so ready. I'm happy to show a surplus, and I'll definitely support this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u40	Thank you, too. The word is given by Ambassador Willy Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm only going to comment on two things in a short time. The first is the debate on the burden of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which we have also spoken directly to the Minister, and I think if I understand his answer to my questions correctly, that we have found a solution so that we will not be in trouble with the Member of the DeSUS Group when we vote in favour of this budget. This response means that the Government will ensure a reduction in certain expenditure or reallocation within the State budget, so that no additional burden will be placed on the pensioner's office with expenditure that means social transfers. This is the key to this problem. That is why I am also grateful that by this public commitment, he will never needlessly break our words, thank you. The second intervention is in relation to, according to my judgment, unjustified and unnecessary attacks on the party DeSUS and its President, when it was cited by one of the Members, how much money is spent in connection with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that in recent years the percentage for which Slovenia has committed itself in the previous term to join the army within the social gross product has been reduced. So it's a reduction. Let me say that it has also been shrinking quite concretely, in the way that we have prepared amendments in our parliamentary group or, in other words, that the funds from the Morse budget lines have been transferred to the social field. That is why we have a new work centre in Maribor today, so we have funds in the budget for a new centre for social work, so we have funds in the budget for a new office for work, so they will be able to buy a whole range of incubators that are missing in Slovenia, so this part of the budget required a reduction of €36 million to provide funding for the National Assembly for passed laws to increase the student diet and increase children's allowances. So we, and this is what the President of DeSUS has supported, have been preparing various proposals that have moved funds for the military into the social work and protection of those with disabilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u42	Thank you very much. On the basis of the agreement, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 13.55 minutes. Until then, say good-bye!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u43	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session. We are in the context of the consideration of the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I will reopen the round of applications for debate, as it were, in relation to the general work. I'm asking you to sign up. So we have an additional 7 registered. The first one has the word of a colleague, Rudy Veršnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I would like to answer a few questions or arguments that have been raised and which I do not think have been sufficiently clear and precise. Let me start with the borrowing. I think that what was said was not correct - that gross public debt is extremely large. Yes, it is true, but it must be said at the same time that this gross public debt represents the public debt of the country sector, which was 27.2% of the social gross product in 2000, and in 2007 this debt is only 25.6 and only 20.1% of GDP is foreseen for 2008. Of course, it must also be said that banks and the private sector and businesses are extremely indebted, but these sectors are in fact heavily indebted, but that is not affected by the state. But it is true that banks are heavily indebted to what is happening in Slovenia today, and they are in charge of those who take over businesses. This is worrying, and probably the bank is watching over it. The expenditure, the growth of the expenditure of the state sector, must also be properly stated here. It is true that expenditure is nominally increasing, but if we look at the country's gross social product and compare this expenditure, we also see that the share of the country's gross social product expenditure in 2000 was 47.4%, 2001 - 48.2%, 2002 - 47.1%, 2003 - 47.1%, 2004 - 46.5%, 2005 - 46%, 2006 - 45.3%, 2007 - 43.5% and planned for 2008 - 42.4%. This is said to be the case, expenditure in a social product is declining all the time, and this is particularly evident now in the time of our government. We also hear a great deal about how tax revenues are increasing enormously, thereby suppressing the economy, but at the same time it must also be said that the fact that tax revenues are a means that the economy is solid, that it is good, that the profits in the economy are great. Dr. Bajuk said how it is to tax this profit, to reduce it from year to year. Here I add that most companies, except some large ones, have already been granted ownership and that this profit show is much more realistic than it was in the past, when some managers, in order to then take over this same company, directed or opened companies abroad, transferred money to these collecting companies, and then with this money came back, bought shares and became owners. It must also be said that now more or less those owners are and are also interested in showing real profits and clearly that they receive the corresponding dividends from this profit. And I think it should be pointed out that the tax on profits is decreasing from year to year with this new tax legislation. Nor should we forget that this tax on wages, which was uniform, I think even in Europe, will last only this year. [[...]] The following year this is no longer the case, but it is also clear to everyone from year to year that this tax decreases on wages, and this is one of the biggest contributions of this Government to the competitiveness of businesses. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Member Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I also support the 2008 balance, because from the deficit we are going to the surplus from the minus we are going to the plus. And that is the achievement of this government, which we must look forward to and support. The government has also listened to the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, where we have repeatedly stressed that insufficient budgetary resources are allocated to the Owl and that some additional money must be made available. From just over €14.9 million in the existing budget, this amount increases by around €400,000, to €15 million and €360 000. Indeed, the majority of these funds, the additional funds at the expense of wages, are increasing from a good EUR 9.3 million to almost EUR 9.7 million. On the other hand, it is good that a reduction in the material costs of the work of the Agency abroad is also envisaged. It is understandable that this public part of the budget does not reveal certain details of the use of these funds for the Owl, as it is possible to draw certain conclusions on the basis of the budget and in this way to overly expose the Slovenian secret service to foreign secret services. However, after last year's disclosures at the work of the Soviet Union in the past, all irregularities such as this violent black fund, the secret fund and the black fund become part of a budget that is transparent, accessible to supervisors, accessible to the Court of Auditors and also to parliamentary supervision, as far as we can manage it. It is also good to reward the successful work of Secret Service workers. Above all, it is important to establish a system, which has also been established recently, a system of transparent awards rather than privileged awards, as has been the case in the past, when people without adequate education have been rewarded enormously compared to others. And interestingly enough, those who monitored the work of the New Magazine Circle or those who are part of a close - knit orthodox society were very well rewarded. Parliamentary supervision of finance must also be effective, transparent in secret services, so that what happened in the past in 1999, when they acquired a listening device in Sova, which is now some kind of museum exhibit in a car set up in the basement of the Slovenian Security Intelligence Service. And for all this project, money from the budget of Slovenian taxpayers has been paid in the past, and this is not a small budget! To conclude, irregularities and stupidities must not be classified or classified. I will support the 2008 budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. However, Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Chairman! Government representatives! I also support the balance of the budget, which is somewhat unusual in this direction for the electoral year. It is not customary for European governments to reduce budgets in fact. Ordinary governments, of course, are generous, even increasing them. I must commend our government for recognizing the economic consequences and that, despite the fact that we have corrected the budget before this fact, it has reduced some costs, some expenses, to end up being a surplus. Of course, I think the effects are extremely positive. That this government has done so all these four years and that these effects and these positive consequences are real, financial and economic and policy visible through an extremely good economic situation. Days ago our economist Bogomir Kovač said that in recent years Slovenia has experienced the dream years of its economy. I don't think anyone's gonna realize that this is some government economist. He's a professor of economics, a famous economist. I've been very careful with his findings on dream years. We have here evidence that this is actually the case and that the introductory macroeconomic indicators are not the result of some coincidence. This is a highly programmed policy that has led to positive effects. That is true, I also see from these statements of the opposition. The opposition practically does not want to listen and participate almost in the budgetary debate, although this is a central debate in Parliament, because of course it is difficult to defamate. And another problem I see in the opposition. The leader of the opposition has been predicting the programme for three quarters of the year. Mr Cwickl mentioned it today, but the last time they said on Ptuj it would be the end of July. Of course, it is difficult for a programme that works positively, which is extremely effective, to give a competitive programme. And just as a large party that proclaims itself with no idea of any economists, it is not able to give a program that offers anything that brings any solutions. Of course, when we are in these favourable macroeconomic conditions, I think it is right that the effects of higher economic growth are shared fairly. We know that we have problems in the country when some of them are heavily wealthy at the expense of workers, and that is by natural law theft, no one here will say that it is not theft under natural law. Now, whether it can be sanctioned or not, this is a problem of the past of legislation that has been adopted. For this reason, I must say that in my opinion, the President of the Government has made the right decision if he has decided to grant a Dragan allowance to pensioners with problems. Here today, this Dragan supplement has been very troubled. Yes, or the Government, which works so successfully when it realises that part of the population or population of pensioners has problems, is properly decided by the President of the Government. What he mastered, so to speak, in four years, should also be rewarded, why only the tycoons would pick up everyone in this country. Little man, the pensioner has existential problems - and here some are disgusted by why the dragnet supplement. See, the only indicator that is not so pink from the outside and also because of some internal causes is, of course, inflation that was present last year; oil and food, of course, are the main causes. But in this country, merchants and parts of that economy, especially traders who are in fact under the influence of the opposition, belong there, have taken advantage of this matter, the global rise in food prices. And we had a case last year where they reported that some dairy products accounted for 67% of the margin. And I was wondering at the time whether there was any possibility of any restriction, of what act making the margin limit, and experts told me that this was not possible in today's Europe. But that some countries are fighting this with margin taxation. And I think this country will have to do it as soon as possible. Even before the holidays, we should do this because this exploitation, this deliberate price increase just because it could be shown that inflation was as high as possible, is happening. And I think someone's sniffing around here. Of course, the government probably does not undermine itself that position, as these food prices continue to rise. Just two days ago, on Sunday, my neighbor yelled at me that he had sold 16 heads of first-class cattle to questioners last week. And imagine how much meat that is if it has 400 kilos of meat each question, and it's got it, it showed me accounts less than it did in the previous round in early October. Meanwhile, the meat prices in the butcher shop didn't go back, but he got a farmer less. And some trades and processing are returning all the problems of inflation to a farmer, as are tycoons to a worker, while there is panic when inflation rises and I do not know everything that the government sometimes does not do enough. And once again, I like to say that the government has taken where it can be saved, where it can be taken away, at the same time left development issues, left behind for education, and at the same time increased at some point as it relates, and that is true policy. I hope that if we have a government of such a composition in the next term, the dream years for Slovenia, as Bogomir Kovac points out, will continue. Otherwise, it could be a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u49	And all this in this government's mandate. Thank you very much. Member Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go. I'm sorry, the replica has a colleague of Squeakle's. Comrade Squeakle, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u50	I was appointed by a respected colleague of Jerovsk. I would like to rephrase first with the proposal to divide all Members, if not the other, at least the rate of growth in the expenditure of the State budget in relation to 2007. This is not on the expenditure side of the documents. Of course, I can tell Mr Jerovsk that on page 3 it says that compared to the revised budget, 2.8% more revenue is planned. So we have an increase in the tax burden. This, last but not least, proves that we now have the highest share of the state budget in GDP for the entire government's mandate by 24.5% of GDP. With regard to his discussion on an alternative government programme, which we have drawn up by the Social Democrats, the following. Mr Janez Janša has a problem with creating such a situation in the economy, that a Dragan allowance must be put in place. He didn't save anything. It was only because of the national economic imbalance that it created a situation where some people, without giving them a special dragan supplement - this is a substitute for a public kitchen, if you want - cannot survive. And that is the most beautiful record of this government's operation. At the end of our term of office, we have come to believe that it is necessary, probably - as Mr Jerovšek said, I believe that Mr Jerovšek knows what Mr Janša intends to do - to introduce a special Dragan allowance at the end of this term. This is a bad statement for this round hall. Therefore, we have proposed some measures, a reduction in taxes [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] See, the law is proposed, the Minister of Finance has rejected it, which would immediately allow for the raising of minimum wages in the economy, which would also allow for the maintenance of employment on this basis, but not that we have situations where we will solve the problems of hundreds of thousands by means of a Draganj supplement. And this is not only a problem of the poorest, it is also a problem of some in the middle layer, but of them a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to my procedural colleague Tank, my colleague Swickl, the first part of the procedural proposal should be distributed to the Members, please, if you repeat [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u52	My proposal is, look, there's no comparison of expenditure on implementation in any material in 2007. It's very complicated to calculate it otherwise, so I assume [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u53	Can you please make a written suggestion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u54	The proposal is that the government will provide what the government has, just give the sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u55	I'm asking you to make a written proposal. A word, and a procedural proposal, however, is made by a colleague of Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Look, you're when you're in a special role. And I do not think it is appropriate for you to comment on his debates in this way when any Member concludes the debate. We have also had such cases with one of the previous presidents, who is, otherwise, no longer Vice-President of the National Assembly. We did these things at the time, and that never happened again. And I don't want any more troubles than they did yesterday, even today. Allow Members to say what they think they say, but if you want to discuss it, leave the seat of the chair of this sitting and move to the parliamentary bench and then you will discuss it there. I think it would be wise for you to stick to this as well as the others who are in charge of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u57	Well, thank you very much for your procedural proposal, I will, of course, take it into account. I sincerely apologize for misrepresenting my colleague Jožet Jerovšek's words about the current government. As it is said, if you intend to threaten with any measure, you have, as the strongest Member, all the same possibilities to do so. However, we continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Branko Marinič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr President, as well as the procedural proposal by colleague Jožet Tank, could not avoid your final comment, let us leave this to you. I want to discuss the 2008 budget balance. I also apologize that those of you who are of economics and rebalancing and all these items of the state budget balance can also look at me professionally. I can't handle it that much, but I can handle at least enough to see the difference between the plus and the minus. And it is certainly the consideration of today's rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, which actually allows the revenue side to be balanced with the expenditure side. And what has constantly followed the content of many debates here in this Chamber, in fact, we have Members and Members in this balance at least a fraction of what improves the situation. Many times there have been talks here in this Chamber about those lowest layers that do not have in this country, which holds the Presidency of the European Community, or the basic conditions for life. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has managed to improve the situation in this social field with today's budget rebalancing, then we can unanimously see that all these items which improve this social picture are, however, to be supported. Here I cannot pass the fact that it is this government that improves the situation of students; those who need healthy nutrition at the time of their growth and development. And it is in the 2008 budget balance that they are getting new frameworks. They get those frameworks that will be the basis for being from 1. 9. 2008 All students, if of course in school that day, will also receive subsidised diets, not any diet, but diet, which is also appropriate on the basis of an expert study. The Government with a balance is proposing to improve the situation in this area. The second thing that happens too often is pensioners. If the Government has found at least a partial improvement, and this has also been submitted to the National Assembly in the 2008 budget rebalancing proposal, of course we have no choice but to support it. Is it true, then, that pensioners also live more decently? I am sure that this precious supplement that they will receive means a lot to many, although in total it is not really I don't know how much, but something is. Slovenians and Slovenians, by nature, are such that we are modest. And I am sure that this modesty will be welcomed positively, as far as the Draganj allowance is concerned, by those who will receive it. And let me also comment a little bit on the so-called poverty, which, of course, in these halls often has its potential for some time, which we call pre-election time. The balance of the budget is certainly not one of the levers on which Members and Members, or the Government, would build a pre-election campaign. For this we have other options, I am sure we will also know how to take advantage of them, but not through the deception of the Slovenian public when we talk about how many thousands of poor people we have in Slovenia. It's a huge number! The budget balance certainly improves this social situation. Some 45,000 are supposed to be those among whom we are called poor, but you know, among these 45,000 poor are probably some of those we call lazy people at home. I come from an area where a person would expect that when social pressures arise, we will gain some sort of casual work and even be able to survive, not just to wait for the Government, or this Parliament, to adopt such legislation so that "these poor people" will give something to survive. In whatever way we assess this rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, we can find that the Government has located certain items, redistributed them in accordance with its capabilities and in accordance with the frameworks available, and thus improved the situation at least in some areas. I am convinced that the adoption of the 2008 draft budget rebalancing will also have positive short-term and long-term effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u60	Thank you, Chairman. Probably never in the history or future of this democracy will there be agreement between the coalition and the opposition on what kind of document - quality, or less quality, is it? In this case, especially not about the balance when we're both on such different shores. However, if anything, it bothers me to present this balance and, in the words of Mr President of the Government and Mr Bayuk, to inflate this great achievement, how great, how important and how important this balance, which brings such changes and quality of life, is. Well, doubtless that's not true. Mr Bajuk, I think, announced once in March what hard work the Government is looking forward to with regard to this rebalancing, illustrating how they will radically intervene with certain cuts in expenditure in certain areas. When you read this after two months, you actually find out - I don't know what those words about "hard work" were based on - because there is no doubt that hard work is being rebalanced. Now, if this was hard work, to convince Minister Erjavac to give 36 million less for weapons, I think it's the first of the untruths. Mr Erjavec would do anything to remain Minister, and if he were to say 200 million, he would have reduced this budget by 200 million, just as he had gladly agreed to a dictatorship under the provincial or referendum laws or decrees. By boasting about how someone contributed to this reduction, at least in the case of the Minister of Defence, Mr Erjavac and the President of the party DeSUS, this is not the case. However, it is forgotten that inflation has done its part to bring tax relief to this government and therefore the intervention to reduce this expenditure has been so much easier; that so much more resources have been incurred in the PPIZ and that this required less from the budget; that with the law that we have adopted here with some consensus, the PPIZ has thus committed a certain amount of resources again and again. It's just that I have a problem with this inflatability, and that's what I wanted to illustrate with these most absorbing examples. Not to mention that Minister Bajuk is not to report that he has provided funds for wages - this salary is clearly more for pre-election reasons than he has beaten or collected in the budget, Mr Virant. And it's just a fact that someone has to sum up the numbers and put these numbers in the budget, and that's what Mr. Bayuk did. So, in doing so, I agree with what Mr Miro Petek, my colleague, said that I do not see in this document the real basis sometimes, why we hide something under the mark internally. And in the case of the Security Intelligence Service, at least by noting that this document and the question that we have addressed to Mr Bajuk should have been marked internally. It was a document we received from Members concerning the Slovenian intelligence and security agency. In the field or sub-programme, the information and security activity shall describe this document in order to increase the Agency’s operating resources by some value on this sub-programme. This value was explained by the Minister by the fact that it was part of the fact that wages were rising or that more funds had to be allocated for wages, and the other part was the rental of premises, which he said was channelled to this point by the Ministry of Public Administration. Whether we believe it or not, we may check again. The fact is that it does not hold what was said to ensure or ensure that more resources are provided for the work of the Security and Intelligence Service, Slovenian. All the time, in these explanations, which were mostly also at a closed meeting, it was said that business was rationalising to reduce employment. And we suspected that because of this control system carried out by the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency at locations outside the seat, it might also be reflected in these values. Therefore, because of the spread of a network, it had to go to new locations, and because of these new locations, the value of rentals had also increased. If that is not the case, if Mr Bajuk's assurance is true, I hope that it is so and, of course, it is not to be disputed, but it only confirms that it is not to be concealed with the mark internally. Earlier, Mr Jerovšek had, in his own way, illustrated some of the developments with regard to this budget or some of the measures concerning this budget, and at least some of them were puzzled by logic. He talked about how ordinary governments - what a common government is, he knows - increase the budget before the elections, and we have made a move, unusually for this European area, and we have reduced the budget expenditure. So first we increased the budget, but we reduced the expenditure. That's true, and that's a move that every government does before the elections, because they want to be liked by the audience, and that's why they don't keep it here. He claims that this is an unusual move by the Government, unless I have misunderstood, and Mr Jerovšek will correct me anyway. But these usual moves of our government before the elections are shown in the details that they are being introduced or that someone is thinking and proposing a dragnet supplement. The precious supplement is a non-systemic measure. It belongs in the style of the rule of this government, which finds the right moment, and says yes, but now I will give the people a treat, and in this case, I am flattering, if I understand correctly, the pensioners, as he flattered them with vignettes. The blames are introduced into the Slovenian system because the Slovenian people had to be told or given some candy. There is nothing wrong with vinjets, but if you have thought of the pensioners of the Dragnje Supplement, why you have not thought about pensioners when introducing vinjets. So these pensioners, the most socially sensitive category of people who don't deserve enough to actually afford some abnormal or extrastandard life, sometimes even go to the hospital, sometimes even have to go to the doctor. And now this population is going to have to give 35 euros for the vineyard, of course, these are people coming out of urban centres, who have no other option than to drive down the highway once or again, maybe to some kind of control, and they will now give 35 euros, instead of thinking about why we don't offer them a monthly vignette or why we don't offer them a 10-day vignette. And that's what makes such moves unworthy now, and I think we could think about it that way. Obviously, you didn't want those people who need this kind of understanding to meet or satisfy them in this way, but with some empty promises of a drone supplement or, after all, you didn't want to pass the social transfer law or the assistance that DeSUS proposed. So, even the talk was about how the main merchants were, that is, some sympathizers, members, or directed by the opposition. So, if, for example, Mr Fattyak, who has been set up by this structure, at this time ruling, for the director of Mercator - the President of the Mercator administration, is one of the political options of the left or the left- centred radiance, then it would be very interesting to know even which one. And this Mr Debeljak has replaced one Mr Jankovic - not him, but you have replaced him and later set him up. And now this Fat guy you set up, he belongs to us, and we dictate price policy, and we're doing it together with Mervic from Spara, and we're doing it with Shower. However, if this is normal and if this is understandable to the Slovenian public, I think the answer is probably quite clear. And when you finally talk about how some people promise to do election programmes and how they will tell the public about it, you mention one client, but this party will tell you or have already announced how and what the program is. The fact is, gentlemen of the coalition, be careful on June 7th. We don't talk much about the program. We have repaired it, we have done it in internal circles, with internal and external experts, we have partially reopened it at public hearings, we will offer it to you on 7 June, and from then on you will be able to assess whether we will be better or worse. We can't be as bad as you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Before I give the replica to my colleague Jerovšk, please representatives of the government, my colleague Swickl gave a procedural decision, which I will not put to the vote, but only an invitation to the government. The Government should provide Members of the National Assembly with information on nominal rates of growth in the revenue and expenditure of the State budget in relation to the implementation in 2007. Comrade Jerovšek, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Petko from the LDS' parliamentary bench has no help - probably; because he says that this rebalance is puzzled with logic, because their government has in fact not left the surplus in the state treasury at any time. But the looted state treasury, such an uprooted state treasury, was received by this government when it inherited the government under the leadership of the LDS. And that's why I'm not surprised if you think everything is puzzled with logic, you don't understand anything or you don't want to understand. Everything is non-systematic for you. If the consequences of this good governance of the country try to plunge this government into the welfare of citizens or those at risk - you say, the pensioners are at risk, but at the same time you are opposed to this government giving an allowance to the pensioners! At the same time, you object, even though there will be a surplus at the end of the year! Yeah, what a crazy logic that is! I'm saying you're not confused with logic, but you've got the wrong logic! You don't want your own citizens to be allowed anything! Now you're talking about one and the other with the program. The Pahors have been promising the programme for a year, and I must say that Mr Pahor has not only one problem with many problems. One of the problems is Mr. Squeakle. They said they had extraordinary experts, and the program was out of nowhere. And I think it's an additional problem that you don't hope to get a day with the program, even by making this rich promotion, which you do in Slovenia with a lot of money, throwing it away, that it's being paid by those who have been greedy at the expense of the workers. And now they're giving you some of that money so you can stage an election campaign four months before the election! You arrange hepennings, music, I don't know what it's all about, you understand; you have to ask where you get the money. When we were in the opposition, we didn't have any money, ever! And you have money. I don't know how much money. You're wasting what's being taken by workers, you're already wasting what's been taken by workers, what some of them are. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] from the pockets of workers. [[...]] And because I doubt that you will offer your programme too, because you are afraid of the consequences of what will happen at this extraordinary meeting. You'd better hide. Pahor already said - the program ended July. He won't even bring it, you don't even have a program, I'm afraid you don't have one, even if you have a program. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u63	Comrade Jerovšek, time for replica is 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u64	Mr. Bogomir Kovac used to be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u65	Three minutes is the time for the replica. I'll do it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u66	their economist, but he found out they were [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u67	Opened a round for discussion [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u68	dream years [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u69	you can continue [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u70	Slovenia [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u71	with your mind. [[...]] Trust me. Thank you very much. Now Member Aloise Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members. They say "Thank you very much, very little price," in June, let me tell you that in Novi Slovenija we have adopted our electoral programme. Of course, the media did not notice it, nor did they notice our work. But, interestingly, in yesterday's dinner poll, we've made 70 percent progress - from 1.7 to 2.5. That's how we get up. I will speak a few words about the resources that Slovenia is drawing from the European Union, and I will particularly touch on the area of agriculture, which I consider to be a population and the development of our rural area is certainly extremely important if it is not the right weight from the economic category itself. I'd rather make one brief introduction. There are many of us here in this Parliament, which deals with budgets also at the local level, some of those you have dealt with, and of course we know how difficult it is to draw up a budget. What does that mean? Or, if you want, a budget rebalancing. Make art possible. I'd give one more for roads, one for security, one for social services, one for social programs, four for the environment, not to mention. If each of us had applied our own principles, then we would have got some strange array of different measures, but of course we are limited to some global sum that the state gets through the tax system, through excise, I don't know, through anything else - and this is it. Part of this is predetermined in advance and cannot be interfered with. We just have to make sure of that, just as the laws dictate. However, according to the judgement and the direction of the current government coalition, some parts can be arranged differently. And as far as I know the political orientation in Europe, it's always that way. The left policy options are much more costly, but when they no longer have the option, then the voters switch this direction and actually choose the right political option, which is something of a 'approach'. And this budget of ours, this rebalancing that we have in front of us today, is that. In this budget, for the first time since 2007, a certain amount is indicated, not as a profit, but as a surplus. And it is true that it seems impossible for all of us to see that the government comes before the elections with an excess, that it has not yet invested this surplus and thus has gained a point. But we all know why this didn't happen. It is also a matter of trying, through budgetary policy, to curb state inflation. I understand the opposition that with some arguments it wants to undermine the credibility of this rebalancing, but I find these arguments very unconvincing. For example, the Government, which has decided to lower taxes, here in this debate is receiving a correction that says: lower taxes even more. Why should we now reduce the corporate tax from 25 to 20? The black government has come to some sort of a plan. A year ago, you said, "Why should we immediately abolish the tax on paid wages?" This is really easy to do, it is easy to say, but the consequences of this are that you have less income on one side, on the other hand, if you want to reduce it, you have to gradually reduce your spending. But it's not the way our colleague Squeakle says it. The fact is, the government came up with some data, and I thought you might have a problem with that data that was written. To say, I don't know, they don't keep that information. The fact is that Slovenia has such and such economic growth and no one objects to it. The fact is that in 2007 both unemployment rates fell significantly, from 9.4% earlier to 7.7% and from 6% to 4.9. This means that many more people who are registered to the unemployed are doing some work and earning money in a gray market. You don't bother with that. At the same time, you say the government is reducing for social transfers. That it's downgrading social. That's not true! It is certain that if the number of unemployed decreases to create these people, they have become taxpayers. That more money came into the budget and on the other hand fewer outflows for social programmes. And the best social program is if a person has a job. And now this surplus, which is there because of 10,000 new jobs, you can't divide between those less unemployed, because then you create some kind of defect between those who work and those who get social assistance. Then, gross salary per employee increased nominally by 5.9 and realistically by 2.2%. With nominal productivity of 7.2%, gross wage per employee was lagging behind by a good percentage, and due to tax policy, net salary growth was 2% higher last year than gross wage growth. Is that correct, Mr. Squeakl? Can you challenge this information? Today, you have declared that all citizens pay more taxes, but not long ago, before the television camera, you have declared that for the first time since you are a Member, you will receive a refund. What's true now? Do we all pay more? Do you get it back? You must have made a mistake once or should I say you lied. There's something wrong with that. I would expect our journalists, students of the Faculty of Social Sciences, to face two different statements and ask you which is the right one. You say there is a lack of data, how much revenue has been increased and how much expenditure. There's nothing missing. It's all written down. By 2.8% and 250 million, revenues increased in 2008 [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Can you leave me alone and not jump into my word? Since you've been sitting here swearing, talking, doing all sorts. As long as you were gone, we had peace here in the back row. See, in the case of expenditure, at all those new expenditure, the sum is written and it says that all these revenues are reduced by €49.7 million. It's written, it's to be read. The total amount of the revenue and expenditure budget for this year, when we are working on the balance sheet, is also recorded. And indeed, with such unconvincing statements, I do not know, you will find it difficult to convince the Slovenian public. Well, and now to that point that I actually applied to, but I have to say, it got me a little carried away. Maybe that's all I can tell you. You mentioned Mr. Jozet Mencinger earlier. I recently read - in DeSUS they are publishing such a brochure, leaflets or what should I say, an informant in which Mr Jože Mencinger wrote that DeSUS is the only social democratic party in Slovenia. So it's not you, but it's DeSUS, they're taking care of the social program or the program that you're still doing and that you're writing and that you're promising. And that's not our problem. You'll be the one to solve it. We've already written ours, like I said. With regard to European funds, European funds, which I am very pleased, are increasing by 12 million 155 000 and something in agriculture, due to the reform of the sugar sector in the European Union. This reform aims to reduce sugar by 6 million tonnes. Now this reform is being implemented somewhere. They've come up with a little less than $5 million. This will have to be reduced further. And one of those factories that has experienced the consequences of this severe decision at European Union level is also the Sugar Factory in Ormož. The owners have closed down the factory because they have decided among the first ones, and because more of these euros have been raised in this fund than they expected to be paid, now thank God our farmers will receive up to a little more than 12 million, they will receive more. And I hope that these millions will target some other products to make up for the loss of sugar beet production. What worries me, however, is that there has been a slightly higher decline at the level of the rural development programme. For a very long time, both at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture and the various professional services working in the field of agriculture, we could not agree on how these rural development funds could be distributed in these three axes and in the Leader programme, and therefore this programme went late to be confirmed in Brussels. But even though it was confirmed only in July in Brussels - I regret that today ministers do not have their representatives - I think it would be good for them to have at least the representatives of the ministries to listen to this debate, not only the Ministry of Finance, but also others. This money, which is, should be made calls as soon as possible for those projects that are ready to make tenders as soon as possible this year. Make the calls as soon as possible. Because if there are no projects in the whole country, I don't agree. In particular, I know that certain projects exist. And the very excuse that there are no projects, and that all of this will end next year, cannot be an argument that I would personally accept. If you write that down, the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture will know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the first axis, about programmes to improve agricultural restructuring. And here, of course, all those in charge of this at the Ministry of Agriculture would once again ask that the projects that are ready to take a look at and make calls as soon as possible or adopt appropriate rules so that those who have programmes will be able to go ahead with their programmes. And one more sentence, and I'm gonna finish it. You like to talk about pensions because you know that the pensioners are so much and so much, and that this is the election base that she needs to be like if you want to get an election vote. We can give pensions as much as this country can. It would certainly take more. Some pensions are very small, let's say I'm going to mention farmers' pensions, they're very small, but they're a little bit back, let's say in a period where honey and milk were flowing, where it was said that socialism was the best system the world could get them through, and these farmers didn't get nothing. They didn't get nothing, they couldn't pay anything, and they didn't get anything in the end. In their old age, they were dependent on charity, the ones who took over the farm. And those of us who are farmers know how many things happened. Today they get little, but they get something, and that's something that can actually survive in a modest way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have a two-procedural proposal and we have one replica. I'll give priority to procedural proposals. Comrade Bostian Zagorac, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will follow the very clever idea of my respected fellow Member Sok, who says, "I'm sorry there are no ministers here today."The ministers were here this morning when the representative of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, represented the balance of the budget. They came to phsession. Now that we're discussing concrete things - who we're taking, who we're giving or increasing, or reducing poverty, I don't see any. I simply cannot believe, on the basis of my experience so far with respected colleagues who advocate a budget rebalancing. But I like to trust ministers, they're responsible. My well-respected colleagues in the coalition will be responsible for pressing "yes", the respected ministers are responsible for proposing such nonsense that is before us today. And I very much ask the honourable President, if there are adequate answers, I know that there is no need to be asked, but we can pray that this people's government, such as this, I will say, a self-sufficient government, a Renaissance government will ensure the presence of its ministers to answer questions - both from the opposition and from the coalition colleagues. I have also noticed at this time that colleagues from the coalition have a number of questions. Mr Jerovšek doesn't even know what he's talking about. It would be nice if someone from the government's office told him what we're talking about here today. Whether we are actually reducing or not in the social field and I do not think we have an adequate interlocutor here. And my proposal, Mr President, is that if, in any way, it can also affect the largest coalition party, where all the phones of their ministers have to call them, to come and tell them whether we are increasing or reducing anything in defence, or on social welfare we are increasing or reducing or in education we are increasing or decreasing. I've been so used to you in three years that I don't believe you, even when you say, "Good morning," I have to go out and see if it's really light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u75	So, if I understand correctly, your procedural proposal is that at least some Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would join us in dealing with the budget rebalancing. Of course, I can't influence it as much as any of you can. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has announced the presence of all ministers, unfortunately none of them. However, I sincerely hope that your procedural proposal will remain and at least one of them will join us. Another procedural proposal, if I understand correctly, does colleague Breda Pecan have one? You raised your hand. Then there was a misunderstanding. Reploco's got a colleague of mine, Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u76	Replica to your esteemed colleague Sok. Look, Mr Sok, who pays what income, that I got my income back for 2006, doesn't prove that everyone's on a better foot. I have to pay for 2007. But not just me, they have to pay income of between €5 and €36 for everyone who has a monthly gross salary of up to €900, and this is €800,000. Then everyone in the income class needs to pay income about €2,700, which is the gross salary of a teacher, a high school professor, up to €6,000. The richest among us, from 7,000 euros forward to 10,000 euros, and they receive a great gift. And, let's say, whoever has 10,000 euros in salaries gets at the annual level in 2007, given 2006, 4,700 euros in taxes, gets more - his net salary has increased by 4,700 euros. So, the fact that I got back for 2006 is only a consequence of what everyone, including you, you know, most of you got back money in 2006 in 2007, because the rates that went down were already in place in 2006. Admit it, most of you got your money back in this class for 2006, but now you're mainly paying extras, especially if you had an apartment allowance because they just took your apartment allowance. It's a story of income. The second story is, of course, related to the fact that the problem in Slovenia is not only a dragan supplement for those who have the lowest wage. I quote one of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who says: "Dear Sir! There's a lot of discussion about pensioners. How do you think the four-member family can survive with 1,700 euros if there are two students in the family who live in Ljubljana. Just for information, being in a student home costs $90, plus eating, plus transport, not to mention that one of the sons is studying music. I'm at home in Haloz's heart, I'm at Ptuj's. From here there is also Mr Marinic, and yet I am addressing you because I believe and hope that these things will ever be heard in the National Assembly, or at least before the elections." Dear colleagues! People who are watching this know that if we are talking about the Danish supplement, when we are talking about that the middle layer with higher incomes was taken by 500,000 euros on the basis of the situation in 2006, that this was a huge fraud. Therefore, in the 2008 state budget, we have a five-fifth increase in income income on the account of these families from Vidma near Ptuj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I don't have to defend the budget, it's nice, and I don't think I'm going to attack it, because that's the truth about the budget, about its preparation, it's always the government or the coalition majority that's responsible for its implementation. However, in view of the discussion that has been here so far, only man cannot accept everything as credible. I join the dissatisfaction that there are no members of the government. I expressed this regret in a private interview with the Minister of Finance, because I find it extremely uncultured to remain the Minister of Finance, when he represents the state budget, the only member of the Government in the parliamentary space. So the matter was also not right for him, and I hope he has given up. However, although he is not here, in his reaction to some of the comments made in the introductory positions of the parliamentary groups, he expressed in some way a protest or dissatisfaction that we are talking about NLB. I must stress that I have run out of time to oppose the recapitalisation of either Ljubljana or Maribor, but we are against doing so with state money. But why is it an eyewitness of the NLB to us who warned us about this, whoever was talking from any group. According to the budget's explanation, I won't talk about the Maribor bank at home, because there's no debate because there's nothing written about the Maribor bank. We will be able to talk about the Maribor bank at the next point when it comes to the so-called Zipro. It is true, however, that this is one of the fundamental reasons that no one can deny the necessity of the balance, because otherwise, there is an argument that it should not be necessary at all. Of course, this relationship with ZPIZ, I also agree with the minister, when he said, I am trying to quote from the memory that it is not true that someone is taking something from someone is taking 30 million euros. I also agree that no one is taking anything from anyone, but it is a fact that there is a reduction in dedicated transfers from the state budget and that there is a broader problem. I checked, from the memory, and I saw that it was true, that's true. In the 12 years since 1996, when I met here with the first budget to date, this transfer from the state budget to the ZPIZ cashier increased from 287 million to 203 million euros. Or 4.2 times, and I agree that this is a structural imbalance. That it is logical to make a transfer from the state budget in the amount of the social transfers that ZPIZ has under the law on the conscience and in the amount of those pension costs for which no contributions have ever been paid. That would be logical. I know what the answer will be, demographic and other problems are causing, but of course this relationship is impossible, there is too much dependence of the PPIZ treasury on the state budget for some stability of these pensions, and there is much more to be said here. It is true, however, that one opportunity was missed to arrange for this situation, as regards the resources of the PPIZ, to be reduced to some extent and to increase financial autonomy if the measures were parallel when the salary tax was abolished. I will say very directly - it is not possible in this demographic situation to resolve these cash flows, or a large dependence on the state budget or slightly increase the contribution rate, but it must not affect the cost of work and it must be done with some parallel actions. That was too late. On the other hand, nothing has been done without criticism at all costs. Now, another discussion or an omen that generally falls after the opposition, because it is a custom in this house to oppose the Draganj allowance. No, at least I haven't seen any comments on this open problem from this point of view, that someone would object, but that the matter is not resolved. Someone has already said that the Dragan supplement has been a bad sign of situations that show or mirror other situations than we are used to assessing. And to say, yes, we have a surplus in the state budget, second year, once it will be realized, now it is predicted. This is good, no one can deny it, but we do have some other deficit in a certain segment of the population that needs equal assistance to survive. But the question is, are they just pensioners? Because, I'm sure there are a lot of individuals outside the pension structure, or if you want families that are equally eligible for a transfer or subsidy to make it easier for them to survive or overcome the problems caused by inflation and more. That's another thing. Yes, it is the right of the Government, as responsible and all who are in it, to boast of the surplus. Although, of course, you can see this surplus in one way or another and someone could attack it, and others could hardly defend it, and vice versa, with such or different ones, but, by chance, as I said before, it is roughly the same as the reduction in investment funds. [[...]] 70 million overruns 66 million reductions in investment. This is, if you want or don't want to see, a bad budget certificate as such, and no one can deny it. Of course, if the increase in revenue is 250 million and this is 92% of that at the expense of increasing tax revenue, then we would expect a reaction to the tax burden to be reduced as soon as possible. This is likely to be done with two instruments, which have different effects - or lower the burden on profit tax or, in general, the effect would be the same, but in fact different, to consider a faster elimination of the wage tax. Indeed, this would bring nothing to a layer of poorer or lower wages, but I am looking from the point of view of the budget surplus or what could be done. And of course, the incorrect arguments that have been made here in the discussion are because the two terms cross-apply. The nominal tax rate on corporate income tax is lower and is more effective. And this is also an essential reason to increase the contribution from this, including not only more profits or a larger base. It's an effective influence, not what the law says, and of course it's incomprehensible to me in some way. I also listened to the minister's statement out there yesterday, visiting. I agree that entrepreneurs and craftsmen justifiably resent that the reliefs currently envisaged are practically useless to them and have nothing to do with them. And I don't understand why they're here -- and now there's an opportunity, at the time of the rebalancing, not after the rebalancing, that these comments would somehow fit in. The next thing you can't just buy and it happens in debates here, you'd understand something different. Of course, I don't mean to defend myself because he doesn't need any defense from the author of today's article in Del. You know, the fact is that when we compare the surplus over planned revenues from the EU and the planned ones, which are very real, the expenditure in the EU treasury is €408 million. So put that visa surplus. Why is that so problematic? I'm not going to press charges. It is true that the reality towards the end of the year will be greater, because it is mostly about Ali but I doubt that 783 million will be realized. [[...]] It would be interesting to hear the same debaters next year if they had the opportunity to have the one we will have when the closing account is being considered. EUR 408 million is the surplus between the planned revenues from the EU and the payments to be paid there, but it is not objective to have 300 million surpluses because 250 is higher and 50 is reduced. Through this starry angle, this budget looks completely different. Thank God if income is realized, that's the difference. What if it doesn't? Of course, operationality, I also know how to do it. At that time, programmes will not be implemented at home and there will be a retention of payments and similar matters. But there's actually going to be a deficit, and there's going to be a big danger here. I think this is one of the most uncertain budget lines or these expectations. That is why they have pointed to this danger, which is the essence of an article in some media today, which is quite appropriate and appropriate today, and I think that everyone without this article should come to similar conclusions without satisfaction, with the possibility that the rebalancing is the same as it was presented to either the proposer or the minister or the positional MPs they will adopt, but this can be a satisfaction with the force of acid output later on. It's about the darling supplement. And don't let the Director blame me, I apologize in advance, it's not personal thought, it's not the co-workers who are technically preparing the budget, but it is. A colleague of mine already had a procedural proposal. The explanation is one that is affirmative. I understand that, but the affirmativeness of the explanation is not sufficient from a professional point of view. So if there are no comparisons for last year's realisation, which would be logical if it were not a rebalancing, because if the budget were to be made, it is not for income or expenditure. I have already talked about NLB, something else has been forgotten, although it was generally said on the committee that we would get it, I personally do not need it, but for the other Members it would be good to write it to them, there is no rebalancing, there are no costs for the bank of Maribor and there are in Ziprot. [[...]] Ziptro is a subordinate act that ensures the implementation of the budget. At least this correctness should be, and there should be other reasons. If I said in the introduction that favourable economic movements result in a favourable fiscal framework, this is a fact that cannot be denied, no one does. There are other reasons for the increase in income. These other reasons, however, are inadequately planned. Don't mind me. I don't take it as a warning. If someone was counting on you to drop the sale of tobacco products and sell gasoline, and the sale of diesel oils was less increasing, he was wrong and it has to be acknowledged. But not just market movements, because this makes excise duties essential, but something else I wanted to say here. [[...]] It is very interesting, from a professional technical point of view, to write that you will provide funds for the rehabilitation of floods last year in the budget reserve, at the same time the media announce that the European Union has granted us 12 million euros. I don't know, they're the ones put in reserve. That's in reserve if we don't know there's gonna be some "hazard" or an accident. When it's known, it's a well-known expense. And to me, the question is why there is no item if the balance sheet gives this opportunity, partly with the Ministry of the Environment, and generally this item is not available and is said to be in the budget reserve. Something similar is happening in this way, although I do not want to use this word because it is repulsive; on the committee it was said, it will go from the budget reserve. In the meantime, I hope that this was either a "lapsus" or an uncontrolled statement, because this is simply not possible either for the purpose or by the extent of the resources needed to do so and the budgetary reserve that is designed. Now it has been said by the Minister, and I believe that he has said this thoughtfully, given the disagreements in the coalition. But it's not just a coalition problem. It's a problem for those who need it. To do so by redistributing funds. Yes, this law permits, this is possible, and this is also a public recognition that the balance in this respect is unnecessary, as it is claimed, due to new laws, just as the dradnian supplement will be, the same status these social transfers have if you want to eat for high school students and do not know what all of this could be done, regardless of the fact that the law post-festums were adopted without a balance. Of course, I admit that the rebalancing continues to show a positive balance, or if you want an excess of revenue on expenditure, it is a great educational moment in the public sector that should show that the government is saving and that in some way trying to contribute to others saving. Yes, but two things are missing or cross-border, but nominally and realistically, revenue and expenditure are increasing. It is positive that no one will say that we do not recognize the positive, but that debt or deficit is declining, that is a fact, but that is the logical consequence of good governance, so to speak, it must be acknowledged. And, of course, we would expect a change under the law as a matter of urgency, because the logic of unloading is more natural than the logic of dating. First you take someone else back, even though they're not always the same people. From this technical point of view, of course, I find the "kiks" that occurred in the preparation of the balance sheet or budget simply to be forgotten about the expenditure on grants where we have the right to donate through income. And this solution, which is going to be at the second point, so I'm going to save the discussion for another point where it's less interesting. However, according to some, excuse the term "kiks" that have occurred in the composition, this should also be noted. As for the bank of Maribor and what else, I will respect the Rules of Procedure and the 2nd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I can see the hands. I'm opening a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Stan Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I'm actually happy that this budget rebalancing has occurred and I'm going to try a few words, in short sentences, to say why it's come and why I'm happy. It came mainly because life is dynamic because it's not static and it's evolving. The fact is that Slovenia, as a country, as an economy, is tied to a global world. That is why our situation is changing, one of the aspects. On the one hand, this has also affected our economy that oil prices on global markets have increased to increase food prices. And, of course, this also affects consumption on one side. This is about the external aspects. The internal aspects, however, are governance of the country. I think the governance of the country has improved significantly. Laws have improved, and these laws, which are mainly tax and others, from this area affecting the economy, have produced positive indicators. And these indicators in many areas have turned in a positive direction. And of course, if we look at all of this from a global and so internal point of view, we see that life, as I have already said, is dynamic and, of course, also needs to adapt the budget to the current state as it is. I'd like to substantiate something with the numbers and the data I got. Deficiencies at the level of the whole country sector are declining from year to year. And now it's approaching zero, so it's even positive. That's a very positive thing. I've only got information for 2007, but I know we've made some improvements. Then the country's debt. If we look at percentages of gross domestic product, how much of the country is in debt, percentage points. From 2000 to 2001, it stagnates, increases greatly from 2002 and starts to fall 2003 etc., but 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 steadily falls. Yeah, great results. Let's keep looking. Unemployment is falling. Of course, unemployment is due to the fact that the economy is doing well, that it is a major economic growth, and I would also like to give a few points here. In these years, since this facility has been in power, in executive power, and, of course, with our help in the National Assembly, there have been some 30,000,500 jobs newly opened. That's a huge number. I will tell you another information, which is not as important for the budget, but it is important that out of these people - 30 000 500 of them in new jobs, new jobs, have been hired by many young people and disabled people. This means that this government is also a very social government. These were those categories that were more difficult to employ in the past, especially young people and people with disabilities. I will point out something else if such a mass of people goes from a social recipient to a positive payer to a budget, which means, clearly, that the budget is burdened with this. It is burdened with the negative that these people have previously received, but on the positive side it is income in various funds. And when it comes down to the obvious that we've dedicated so much and so many millions less to the ZPIZ in this rebalancing, because that's a clear, logical consequence. I'd like to see that effect even more. Why? Because then we'd hire more people if that were the case. In fact, I am glad that there is such a rebalancing and that this budget is also turning in a very social direction, but not in some unjust social way, but in the social sector, which allows different people, different layers, segments of society to live easier. We have therefore adopted several laws, the whole position has worked hard in this area, and money is needed for these laws on the one hand. Of course, it should be obtained by redistribution from some other segments. And that makes sense to me, too. We've heard evidence that this government has reduced investment, investment expenditure. On the one hand, there are terrible criticisms of inflation that we have a lot. In fact, this inflation is around 80% dependent on incentives that are of an external nature that Slovenia cannot influence and in a small part have been exploited by traders and raised prices. And when all of this comes together, inflation is what it is. Every economic textbook says that investments are accelerating inflation. And on the one hand, that we don't have too much inflation, we are also prepared to give up before the elections, an investment for a measure, so that you won't accidentally tell us that we went to the polls with big investments to win voters. No, no, no. I think that this is a very country-efficient and long-term move to reduce investment because inflation is actually high. And by doing so, we kill and tame inflation, with what is in our power, because we are bound to the world market. But what's in our hands is what the government did on this segment of investment. Yes, of course, I understand the opposition, the pre-election time is coming, it is necessary to step into certain segments of this balance and criticize it. It's essentially easy - why? - because no one is satisfied with the budget or the budget balance. Anyone who has ever composed or been in the making up of a budget knows that interests are very fast and mixed here, everyone would like more. Everyone would like to make the most of it and also to say how important their segment of this budget is. Everybody! I would like to see - and perhaps there is a person there who says, yes, in fact, the situation has changed and I can actually put something from my budget item to another item. But in principle, they all fight for their line and want to lift, not reduce. If you look at the segment, you can criticize it from the segment, and there's always something to criticize it. But if you look at it in full and see that this budget balance is very positive and that, in general, public finances bring only indicators pointing in a positive direction, but I am happy and only I can and I wish that this situation as regards the public finances economy would last a long time, as it would then be a guarantee for the welfare society. Not overnight, but within a few years, we would simply come into a welfare society if these indicators continued. I hope that economic policy will go in this direction too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Allow me just one more intermediate, not your debate, Mr Pajk, but I would remind you all together to discuss the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. That's why we have a special section and another chapter and other amendments. Please limit yourself to not repeating ourselves in what we are currently discussing. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u82	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, all others present. Now that I am listening to today's debate, I find that the opposition is in very big trouble. It is very difficult to find arguments for reducing or opposing what is good and which brings benefits to the whole country and to all citizens and citizens. I think that this point actually shows the size or the smallness of the opposition holding. And after these discussions, I must say that we are not the most mature or some of you are not up to what we should be in the debate we have today on the balance. The fact is that macroeconomic indicators in this country are beneficial that they are not created by themselves as they are, even though you will never admit this in the opposition, and in the same breath you will firmly ensure that the blame for higher inflation in our country, as recorded in EU countries, is exclusively at the level of the Government. This is this dual morality, a kind of depravity that goes to those who, in the past, did not take advantage of these opportunities when they had the opportunity to prove themselves. In a very difficult or most difficult position, it is indisputable, in this debate, the SD party, the Social Democrats. The writer of their program on this work is former Prime Minister Rop. It is very difficult for someone who has been proven unsuccessful in the past to write something original and something good. Let us remember what we faced before this government, before this National Assembly. The pensioners were apprehensive almost every month or their pensions will be paid next month. We know that the pension register faced a deficit every month. Remember the articles that talked about it, the management of the PIZ managed to crack the pension funds. Remember the delay when one of the previous governments, with one month's imprisonment, stole one pension. These are all the facts that have stopped happening in recent years. It is unworthy to play with the pension population in this way. Unworthy of the fact that it is a population that has earned its own, during the working period when it was active, and must receive what it deserves. However, these stories would have been repeated over and over again if there had not been a law in 2005 that had "consumed" the debt of the pension and health allowance and settled it once and for all. Since then, we have not listened to these stories, since then the system has been functioning normally and since then there have been no problems in this area. For this reason, I also do not personally understand certain debates during this period. With regard to the dradnjek supplement, such a measure is usually introduced when it comes to some abnormal conditions that do not last longer. And I'm sure our inflation won't last much longer, either, that it's a transitional character. When you proposed this matter about six months ago, your side of the debate was positive. Now that someone else is proposing this matter, the other person who is acting in another role is taking such a measure negatively. That's not right. I think it is important that this is resolved and that the negative effects of abnormally high inflation on those most affected are mitigated. And all of this is covered in this rebalancing. The budget deficit of €230 million is "sananised" in this rebalancing. A large budget surplus of €70 million is planned, increasing funds for those most affected by these economic trends, while ensuring subsidised diet for students, while allowing easier access to kindergartens for those with more children and so on. I do not think that any of these measures are in the balance so that they should be dealt with on the negative side. I think that the debate should be focused on whether this is the maximum and the best that can be achieved. We should be sure of that today. However, unfortunately, I have not heard such debates. My personal opinion is that it's optimal. Given the situation, and given what has already been done in the past and what will also have consequences in the coming years. In particular, I am referring to the reduction in income and the title of the pay tax, which is being abolished at the end of this year. It is necessary to be realistic, it is necessary to ensure balance – financially and, on the other hand, everything the budget has to provide. It is not a problem for this country to have a problem with the unemployed, that people do not have a job, that they do not have the right conditions to ensure their own social security. I think these things are needlessly exaggerated. If you'll allow me, some flowers have also been mentioned to be responded to. Look, the vines aren't any candy. The one who sees it that way has missed it. Guilty should have been introduced a long time ago. Slovenia is an extremely transit country, on the other hand, the measure is one that allows for the stability of financing the further construction of motorways, facilitates the situation for our people who use motorways daily and do not burden those who cross our country only. Of all the elements, however we take it, this measure is positive, and it is particularly positive because it will allow the transition to the free movement payment system as a transitional. I think there would be a lot more to do in this general work, but let me finish with the area of European funds. Many words have been said on this subject in this mandate, and I would not repeat them. None of the fears have come true, but it is normal that when this new financial perspective began in 2007, it is impossible to expect all projects to be born overnight and started. This transitional period is behind us, we are deep in projects and 2008 and 2009 are the ones that will allow, I am sure, to draw on funds as planned here in the balance sheet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Nicely greeted. Allow me a few thoughts, a few reviews of the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year. I am pleased to see this day, this debate, because we can make our assessments. With one sentence - the changed economic movements and the new legislation adopted by the National Assembly this year are the main reason for the rebalancing of this year's budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me remind you. Instead of the 230 million deficit recorded in the already adopted budget for this year, almost 70 million in the proposal for this balance is forecast. By adopting this rebalancing, we will therefore put around €300 million into the good of the Republic of Slovenia, this difference being the case when we compare revenue and expenditure and compare the adopted budget and this proposal for a rebalancing. It saddens me, however, that in this space we cannot at least approximately align ourselves with regard to the assessment of the balance sheet, at least approximately. It is perfectly normal for the opposition and the position to function very differently. However, I would expect at least when we are talking about the numbers and trends that are being transmitted to us by public institutions, so that these numbers can also be properly presented. I would like to remind citizens and citizens that it doesn't matter who says anything and probably citizens and citizens have already learned who is deceiving in the National Assembly. Let me remind you of October last year, when we were in the stage of adopting the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, then our fellow Member, sitting in the first bench, now in the last one, wrote himself, in his own hand, states: "...that is why much more is spent in Slovenia than it creates." According to Banka Slovenije, in 2002 every citizen generates 1,500 euros more exports than imports. In 2007, everyone generates a deficit of EUR 5000 or a total of EUR 1.1 billion or almost 3% of GDP. So if everyone creates 5,000 euros in deficits, we have to multiply these 5,000 by two million, that's how many Slovenians there are. We get 10 billion, our colleague says 1.1 billion euros. There's a mistake somewhere, for factor 10. So, I would like to warn citizens and citizens that they need to know who the calculator does not work well in the National Assembly, and that is already in the second degree arithmetic operation. But, thank God, Slovenia has been good for four years in the European Union and we are getting assessments of such and different from the European Union, from European and global institutions. Maybe someone will also say in this room that they're getting excited about these grades. Let me put it this way. And maybe someone will wave their hand. The monthly The Banker, to remind you that since yesterday it has been 82 years and is now part of the Financial Times group, has published a list of business in May 2008. Among over 70 transactions, one for each of the selected countries, he listed last year's 11-year bond issue of the Republic of Slovenia, with the main organisers Dresden Kleinword, Bank Austria Unicredit Ljubljana and Societe Generale. The Banker substantiates the classification of the Slovenian issue of the bond between business in 2008 on the grounds that the issue of the bond was of great importance not only for the state of Slovenia but for the entire Central and Eastern European region. This was the first issue of a government bond in size corresponding to the reference bond in the euro and also an important first business of Slovenia using the euro as a domestic currency. The Banker emphasises that Slovenia was the first of the 10 accession countries to the European Union in 2004, which qualified to take over the euro and also took over it in January 2007. We are getting European recognitions, European praises, European awards and at home only negative assessments. As far as the Slovenian economy is concerned, let's just look at some data. We all know, last year's economic growth was 6.1%. Economic companies, these are the data of Apes, the agency again, the institutions to be trusted, companies created almost €78 billion of revenue last year, which is more than a fifth of a year ago. It is said that the 2007 income growth index compared to 2006 is 120. The total profit was EUR 4.38 billion and was 38% higher. Perhaps again someone will wave and say, this is not the result of creating a good environment for the development of businesses, for the development of the economy, which we have also created in the National Assembly on the proposal of this government, in particular through tax legislation, through tax reform. I believe there are still interests, desires to make some minimum adjustments to tax reform. We now have accurate data for 2007. I welcome the fact that the Government is studying to consider whether it would be advisable to introduce an investment relief for micro-enterprises, for small businesses, perhaps this will prove to be a good thing. I welcome that this government has had outstanding obedience and that it correctly understands the principle of subsidiarity and has allocated funds to the Slovenian municipalities in 2006 by adopting the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. Only the Pomurski congregations received more than €7 million under this law than they did under the previous law. Just a sentence on tax reform. The assessment from Europe, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the most modern tax administrations in Europe, of course because tax legislation, the Tax Procedure Act, and so on, can be one of the most modern tax administrations of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. And just yet, and I conclude, on Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, Slovenia is a social state. Slovenia is a social state, this is also seen in this budget balance. But I understand not only the social state, but for those who actually have an accident, let's say that the company goes bankrupt or something else. It is not enough for the state to provide a bunch of money for social transfers. In my view, it is also important that we raise citizens and citizens in a social sense. I'm so glad we showed that feeling. And you know where? We showed it after we adopted the reform of income legislation and when this finance minister hoped to cancel 0.5% of the income and that it was up to the taxpayers themselves to whom this 0.5% income would be allocated. If you look at the near results now, you will find that more than 70% of the income debtors have decided to devote their 0.5 income to humanitarian organisations in the fields of work, family, social affairs, protection, rescue, assistance and so on. And that's good. That is why Slovenia is a social state, and that is why, or above all, Slovenia is a social state. At the time of the adoption of this income legislation, some of you have predicted and regretted that now the taxpayers will be filling the budgets of the religious communities. You've made a big mistake. Only 7% of the taxpayers decided that they would be 0.5%, or even less, dedicated to one of the religious communities that are in Slovenia. I conclude with satisfaction the proposed rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year. I am sure that this coalition will also have the opportunity to create an even better environment for economic development in the future, an even better environment for Slovenia to be an even more social state. Let me remind you here that the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit was finally adopted in the National Assembly. Mr Semolič himself, who is not a member of New Slovenia, said that this law has been in force for 11 years and that he has always landed in the last drawer of one of the former finance ministers. Now this, thank God, has happened, so we will also say in this way that people in companies are the largest capital. And that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, you are in no envious position. First, you had to squeeze out seventy million surpluses out of a few hundred million deficits, and now you have to endure the debate in the National Assembly, where we are not telling you anything new. I am afraid that not only the opposition, but also the coalition MPs, are probably already passing on to you in the meantime. Not here, of course, but you may admit to me at some point around the corner that I was right about my findings. [[Ad in the background.]] Thank you, Mirko. In fact, there are some things I'm not doing together in the rebalancing of this budget. On the one hand, we have declared, on the basis of the finances of the Republic of Slovenia and the current state of the society of prosperity, while also dealing with the Draganj allowance and similar ratings to be granted to citizens in the society of prosperity. These two things don't work out for me. And not long ago or, say, a year ago, Dr. Beast, Minister of Education, at the first signs of a marked decline in support of the Government, stated that the Government has quite a few popular measures that will be put to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming period, say and write, this is in this pre-election period. And that's what's happening now. The jewels, the snacks, the vines, the funding of the municipalities, that's it. And no one's gonna convince me that's not the case. In the debate on individual solutions, such as vignettes. Why were not all these measures, if so good, introduced in a welfare society two years ago? On the one hand, do they have a positive impact on the financial situation in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, or do we bring citizens closer or closer to the welfare society? Indeed, it is possible that some "my" ministers in the past have also done the opposite, that before the elections they have introduced a number of unpopular measures, the awkward are always found. But there are quite a few populism measures here, and that's just to be admitted. I have always admitted that I am not a financier and I do not understand these matters like anyone else, but for a simple citizen who has been following this parliamentary life for several years, the matter is very simple in this mandate. For these 70 million surpluses, we accepted, on behalf of another financial burden bearer, some hundred million or billions of loans. We have recently accepted a guarantee for close to 600 million credits for road construction, which the state will have to pay from the state budget. Or to a large extent. Which is what the public is already aware of. And that 70 million is going to explode because that 70 million means very little. You, Mr. Secretary, just had to pull it off like I said at the beginning. And that's your job. And the task of a finance minister is always repugnant in every government, including yours. I'm sure you had quite a problem with that. Comrade Jerovšek said he was talking about the dream years of an economist named Kovac. I think it was, not Bogomir Kovač, but Stanislav Kovač, who also found out, similar to his former fellow Member back here, that Slovenia does not have the poor, but that they are mainly lazy. This thing's a little stressful for me. Whether this economist or this fellow Member goes to a construction worker anywhere in Slovenia, who now works at 34 degrees in the construction site, earns 500 euros, or a textile worker who works for 380 euros a month, telling her that they are not poor that they are lazy. This thing is already a little out of the range of good taste. And here we can smile sourly at such thinking or statements, but it is serious and serious that one category of people who make very little money due to objective or subjective circumstances, including changes in legislation for certain areas, such as the textile industry, unloading, etc. Last time we were with colleagues in Mura, where all possible solutions are being sought, perhaps also with you, Mr Minister, where it could also help people who have very little or too little of this welfare society. And it would be interesting to feel that together you have to get this 70 million, when millions of people walk away from you after the second stop: either from state-owned companies abroad for impossible investments, which are also driven by 600, 500%, I mean Russia, to inflation in the investments of the current Clinical Centre, where some installations grow from 12 to 25 million per night, and commissions that fall here, as we hear them. Or not to talk about military acquisitions that are always questionable and we have a new affair about these stories every week. And then this surplus could be much higher. As much as you had problems in the deficit, it might be too much to have someone standing behind them or standing behind them with a stick, in a suitable repressive form of course. As far as I'm concerned, and these debates, and the evidence of pre-election time, could be three weeks from now because of me. Also in order to get rid of these pre-election, unsympathetic people and unnecessary moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, on the bench you received a comparison of the data of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and the Proposal for a Rebalance of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, following Mr Mag's procedural proposal. Squeezing. Please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much. With regard to my procedural proposal, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for this information and to warn the Member of procedure that you have looked very closely at the indices. Income index 113,9, expenditure index 113,6, material cost growth index 119, office and general material consumption 143, special material 121, transport costs 125 and so on. It's a pro-cyclical policy. Your information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u89	Mr. Mag. Squeakle, your procedural proposal has been approved, and that was not the case. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not customary for a person to replicate immediately, but since I have this opportunity, I would like to explain one thing that honourable Member Juban has just said, and that is what we can expect with regard to Dars' debt. I think it's a very important thing. If I understand you correctly, you have expressed your fear that sooner or later the budget will have to cover this up. On this point, I would like to explain to you, because this is happening again and again in our political space, and I think that we really need to be clear again where we really are. In 1998, the Ministry of Finance initiated a procedure with the International Monetary Fund and later with the European Union authorities in order to formally adopt the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia that Darsa’s funding is not part of the public sector. This would be the subject of several visits from their so-called missions that came and studied this thing and finally decided to do so, provided that the DARS could always cover its revenues via toll and that it would not depend on the financing of its debts, on public funds. This is also then the government assured, we have had different approaches to this, partial funding through the budget or not, now that we have decided in this mandate that we want to complete the highway programme as soon as possible, we have, of course, accelerated this thing, but there is still, I would say, ensuring and guaranteeing that the DARS will be over tolls, such and different, and in particular much more just than we have so far, we know well that about one third of all traffic does not pay at all, either way, because this system is so introduced. We now expect that the new system of vignette will also help to do so temporarily. The invoices that have been made have clearly shown that for 2008 and 2009, such a problem would not have been that it could come on the shoulders of the Republic of Slovenia not in the sense of some guarantee, because this guarantee exists, but that there is a fact that there is a fear that it will cover the Slovenian budget, that is, the real taxpayers from these funds that we get from precisely to finance these joint programmes, that we will have to finance the DARS with these funds or the repayment of debts, but there is no and there is still a possibility that we will have a fairer toll system that will actually create such a cash flow that it will not be necessary to do so. This option exists, and that is certainly not going to happen. I am sure that no matter who comes to the third term, this is a joke, I hope you have some more humor, but whoever will be my successor will always hold onto it, as all finance ministers have done since we asked that the DARS is not involved in public finances and is not involved in public finances, but of course it is included in the speeches of certain politicians. But I can't help it, every time I hear that kind of talk, I'll try to explain it. I know it wasn't malicious here, but it's right, because the taxpayers are following this debate to know that it's not some hidden scam, but that it's a systemic solution that's already a few mandates back. And if we ensure that we have such a toll system that will create a cash flow that will satisfy this payment, that will not happen. The increase in transit in Slovenia, the transit itself, how much more roads are used than calculated another or two years ago, and gives a person some inner peace so that such problems will not occur. Speaking of which, I would like to say once again, mention another thing, and this is another Member's comment, I think Mr Trofenik was, if I am not mistaken about how the budget is being prepared. If you're looking at this for the first time, and you have to finish, it's normal to finish, yeah, but these guys really don't know what they're doing, because they're wrong every six months. You need to know when the budget is running, for example, I will give data for the 2007 budget, how we prepared it. The 2007 budget started to be prepared when the UMAR gave its assessments of what economic growth would be in 2007. This was in the 2006 Spring Report. At that time, it was expected to be 3.9%. Six months later they said, well, it might be 4.3. When we were in the 2007 Spring Report, that is to say, when the first quarter was already over, when we had data that the economic growth was slightly over 7% in January, that it was 6% in February and something else, then they fixed a little bit and they said it might be 4.8. In the 2007 autumn report, by the end of their term of office, 5,8 had actually turned out to be 6.1. The budget was prepared on the basis of this assessment, because we have no other. It's our system. The system we have is for the Ministry of Finance and the Government to decide on the basis of the assessments of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. And I wouldn't criticize that right now because I don't want to be in the role of the one who has to predict, but we have to be aware that those who predict can be wrong. And they're wrong. Just look at, say, the latest data from the International Monetary Fund on economic growth in Europe. A few months ago, in October of the month, they claimed that maybe half the percentage would be 0.5% of economic growth in Europe. Apparently they were wrong, and they all seem to be wrong because they're looking through a particular prism situation all over the world. And that's what happens to anyone who evaluates. However, the result of these assessments is that something is being built on this basis. And we had to build on that basis. I admit to you that I believed much more in the effectiveness of certain things proposed by the Government and accepted by the National Assembly, such as tax reform, and that I believed that this would have consequences in economic growth, so I also hoped and risked a lot. What were we risking? We have politically risked, but in the sense that we have been subject to constant attacks and criticism in political space, when what you are doing, what you are planning such and such a deficit, it turns out that, based on developments, there were not deficits, but indeed surpluses and that all this is possible. I think that as a country we need to look at with some greater optimism what we have created as a country during this period. I think that Slovenia can be quite pleased that all candidate countries, from those groups of 10 members who are countries in transition that have entered the European Union, have entered the euro area first, because the basis was right and because we are able, under certain conditions, to find those key political consensus that we can realise and carry out these things. This balance is just a result of everything we've created together. I think it's a good time that we can also examine this thing, overlook it in this sense, that if there's something positive - yes, let's say hello and move on and try to make it better. I just want to comment because there have been some criticisms at the Ministry of Finance. I am also responsible for this, inadequate planning, as far as tobacco tax is concerned. It is true that we expected that the law banning smoking in public spaces would have a little more effect than it actually has. In fact, there are these effects in some sectors. To tell you the truth, in Slovenian casinos this is something you know. Slovenian casinos have little less traffic because these people who go to casinos and visit us from abroad are used to using tobacco in such and different forms, but now they can't. And that made them a little less comfortable. We hope that they will have no major problems with this activity. The key thing we could not have anticipated, however, is one decision made by the Austrian government. The Austrian government has lifted certain restrictions, and today our neighbours are better off shopping here. And that's what they're doing, and there's a little bit more to it. It's not all like that, I'm not saying there are sometimes no mistakes, of course we do them. One error presented by the Monetary Policy Committee was that the explanation concerning NKBM is that it is not in the general work but in the specific part of the budget, in the first part. We've already been down with the ashes, as we've called ourselves. It seems that this is not enough to make the harakiri happy. We're not gonna do that. There's plenty of ash. We can make mistakes, but it wasn't that bad. Anyone who wants to read it again can find it in the section of the Minister of Finance's explanation and I think it's very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban, you have a replica of the Minister's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u92	Something small. Financing Dars. The guilty are citizens, accepted. The opposition has found some mistakes they have and we have highlighted them. I said something about them, too. This issue is now separate from what we are discussing today, the financing of individual systems. And about the financing of Dars himself. Umar, your Umar said in his analysis not far back that you're just blaming yourself as a story for financing credits that doesn't work, for financing Darsa's liabilities, they don't work. The financiers of Darsa, when we started supporting the loan guarantees for the construction of motorways, said, yes, but some of these obligations will have to be transferred to the budget for the repayment. I think he's a financial director or whatever this gentleman is in. And a third. The government has also announced that individual sections of roads financed by the motorway system will have to be eliminated and transferred to the budget because Dars himself will not be able to manage the full burden. That's what I'm saying. And it's likely that something else will come because it's a state guarantee. If we were to balance this out, then this balance sheet result would be different. I hope that we will experience this when we talk, not that we will solve this problem in the way that it is here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Here you go. What do you want? [[No, no, ……]] I can't give it to you, Mr. Mag. Squeak. No, I really can't. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and both representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We see this budget rebalancing in good and even in some shadowy place, so that we share feelings about whether we would support it or not. But given that the Minister of Finance has mentioned that with transfers in some part, at least the Dragan supplement will be covered, we have decided that we will support this rebalancing, although not all the gold that is coming. It is very good to show budget surpluses, and another is the question of how it came about. It was created by the Law on Social Transfers, to the extent that according to the data of the Ministry of Finance, 34.721 000 and a few coins of euro. Thus, those who had frozen social transfers last year contributed almost half of that surplus last year. It is good that we have had a high economic growth, but it is bad that inflation and big inflation broke out at the time of economic growth, which has brought a successful economy and development of the country into a situation where we need to talk about a Danish supplement that would solve the problem if we could pay it every month. According to official data, there are not 45,000 poor in the country, but 200,000 poor, 10% less than in some other European countries, however. The gem supplement is supposed to cover about 175 thousand, which means not all those who are poor are covered. That's how this thing has its drawback. It is good that we accept it, that we will pay it, but the worse is that not everyone is covered, as someone else has already mentioned. Because it is not true that those with the only source of social support would just wait for the country to pay the 200 euros, but it is the only source of survival for them. And even if we were doing something together, we couldn't do much to help each other, it would probably be right to be caught here. As it is right and enjoys our support for the intention of receiving the Dragan supplement also to the rural pensioners who in fact have the lowest pension and those who receive the national pension. Of course, Dragan’s allowance, if paid in full from the pension allowance, has this weak point in order to be paid from their pension to the detriment of all pensioners whose material position is reduced by the pension reform adopted in 1999, even though, if we recognize it or not, the cost of pensionable pensions is falling. Last year, pensions were behind the gross salary of 1% and net wages of 2. It is also good that we have opened 30,000 new jobs. That's very good. There is more income, more contributions to the pension, health allowance. The weak point of these jobs is the fact that 70% of these jobs for a certain period of time, which do not guarantee social security for new employees, prevent them from even medium-term planning, such as families, the birth of children, because they cannot rent credits and create conditions for the creation of a family and its better perspective. The problem is that there are many employees today who have minimum wages and those who have very low wages. More than 100,000 are those with net salaries below 500 euros, yet they are not somehow thinking of all of us to give this a Dragan supplement. Therefore, I must say that the state has made a positive move when it has adopted some laws concerning the increase in social transfers when it comes to family benefits and dioceses. We've been supporting all of this together. That's the right thing to do. The problem is that the type of transfers remained frozen and, with the expected falling inflation, can be nominal for even several years at the same amount, which, of course, puts into a very strange light such coordination that will not be for years. But this is objectively possible if inflation falls, because coordination is planned for growth, which will no longer be, we hope. I have to say, we have a problem. I must also say this that, as part of this government coalition, we accept responsibility for this budget and that voters will assess this in one way or another whether it is positive or negative. We are a small party, with current support not of 2.7, as Mr Sok said, but of 2.1 in public opinion research. However, if we support this balance, we also assume part of our own, though minor, responsibility for the consequences that will and may be good, can also be bad, there may also be some mistake within this balance, as the finance minister himself has mentioned, but let us hope that these errors are not, at least not those that could have a significant impact on the development of events and expectations that are embedded in this balance. However, given that a good agreement is expected on the Draganj allowance, which we support, we, too, will be united in our support for this budget balance as a parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Representative of the Government. I will, of course, personally support this rebalancing because it improves this year's budget. Of course, there are more reasons why I support this, and I'll give you maybe two, and some facts. The fact is, for the second time in a row, it has, or will have, a state budget surplus this year. This was the first year of last year, and the second time this year, it is said both times in the time of this government. This did not happen to have a surplus in the state budget, nor was it when we experienced a success story led by the LDS. It wasn't even like that at the time. At the time, companies collapsed, about 80,000 workers went on the road, and you called it a success story. Yes, then what can we say today when unemployment is the least and everything is essentially positive and the state budget will have a surplus. And today you're telling us we're getting high. I can tell you that we don't get high, we just point out the facts. If anyone ever puffed up, then you were when you claimed to be a success story when the companies failed. All we can do today is count the facts. I also support this rebalancing because it is a consequence, I can say a positive consequence of the good governance of the country under this government. Unemployment is the smallest, since the Slovenian state exists, economic growth is constantly high and is the result of the government's planned work, the government deficit is below 1%, significantly lower than even the government itself has planned. It decreased from approximately 3% to 0.8%. I'm sure that's a success. I am particularly pleased that this government considers the year to be 12 months in all categories of the year; this has not always been the case. At the time of the success story, when our fellow Member, Mr Squeakl, was also in the ministry, he stated that he had a year of 10 to 13 months. Thus, the budget revenue was 13 months and the budget expenditure was 10 months. Thus, revenue in the budget was coming up, including the month of January, but what the state had to finance from its budget was over in October. Gentlemen, that's what happened. And the result? As a result, in 2004, when this government took over the leadership of the country, teachers were not paid for December. Those in the government know exactly what it's like to be a minister of education and a finance minister, how they practiced here, they know that. But they brought the matter together, that the year was 12 months old again, and that in 2004, when the teachers took over the leadership of this government, they received salaries. These are the facts. And, of course, this is not the only thing Mr. Squeakle is doing. During this time, he successfully demolishes Gorenje's good name, on behalf of 8x8 and similar nonsense. That's why I'm glad this government is doing something different. But it's interesting, and that's why I support this balance, because this balance has some characteristics. These characteristics are as follows. Education and social transfers, the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs, are the main beneficiaries of this rebalancing. Allow me to tell you only the basic areas where there will be a substantial increase, about €40 million: in the field of education, for regressing the diet of students, primary education, secondary education, music schools, higher education and student homes, then higher education, scientific research centres, research projects and research programmes, as well as higher education libraries. Have we not always spoken, and are we still saying that in young people there is our future, that knowledge is our advantage over others? Isn't the balance going this way? And a second time. It's written that we're a social state, and some of you want to say this by all means with your head through the wall that it's not true. See, the Ministry of Labour and Family will receive almost EUR 30 million of additional funding for child allowances, for parental benefits and for health and pension insurance. Is this a social state or not? Yes! And these two sectors are going to get the most with this rebalancing. And where is it taken? Today it has already been mentioned that it is most at the expense of defence. Here we must, I think we must also commend Minister Erjavac for agreeing somehow and for giving up. Then what are we not going to get from the area of defense? A transport aircraft, heavy reconnaissance vehicles, medium helicopters, is called the upgrade of medium helicopters, light wheel armors, long-range radars. There will be no such thing as almost €40 million. And now let me remind you whether it was you who told the opposition a while ago that more butter and fewer cannons would be needed. Mr. Squeakle put it on his big mouth a month ago. This balance has happened exactly what you wanted. And what's interesting is that this is proof that the position, the real government, is taking into account the good proposals of the opposition. This was a good proposal to reduce procurement for cannons, but not only for cannons, including helicopters, as we have found, and for military aircraft, but more for social transfers, parental allowances, children's allowances and student homes, libraries and so on. That's exactly what we want. And social transfers, which also receive a lot of money, are necessary. Without social transfers, as you say, there is no such thing in rich countries, it is quite the opposite. Social transfers are very typical of rich countries. There are no social transfers in those countries where they declare that they are all the same. Today it's in North Korea, I don't know, Cuba, Miami. But we don't want to compare ourselves with them. We don't want to be the same as them, so everyone gets what they need. But it turns out they obviously need very little because there are the most tragic situations still in the world and, thank God, we have come somewhere else to introduce social transfers that are a sign of well-being in society. We have to remember that. Social transfers are a sign of well-being, not something bad. Like I said, I support this rebalancing. I am also pleased that we have taken into account the proposal you have proposed in the opposition and fewer cannons of more butter. And that was a good suggestion. But it's interesting. When exactly what happened was what you proposed, a good proposal, but once again you have a bunch of comments, how it's not right, how it's not going, how it's not going, and we've been listening this year. Diabetes isn't right, and it's, I don't know, pre-choice, but I don't know what it is. Children's kindergartens for another child, you've had a lot of concerns here, too. Nothing suits you. But look, I don't surprise Mr. S.D. and Mr. S.D., because they don't have their own program yet, and they don't really know what they want. We'd like to have this once, but we'd like something else next time. But when they get that, they don't know, but they'll have something third. That way you'll have to agree on what you want, what your program is. We have a program and we're working on this program, and even if you're suggesting something good, we'll do it to you if it's good, because it's a good idea. Why don't we just follow your good idea? And less guns and more butter was also a good suggestion from your side. I am not saying that this was only done because of your proposal, but the proposal was good. Only now do you find it funny that this can be achieved because you were obviously joking at the time just to throw up fire and sulphur in this government. But this rebalancing has happened and we have actually given more for those who need it, for education and for social transfers and less for military equipment. That's what you said the government should do. Now that's what happened. One more thing. Before that, there were a lot of comments from you about ministers and government members not sitting here. I know that everyone has his own needs, and for a certain period of time, someone has to do their necessary things, and government representatives are always here. But there's something I can say. I've been here since 1996. Never have government representatives had so many hours in Parliament that they listened to us as they did in this mandate. Never. Believe me, I've been keeping a close eye on what government officials have been doing. Never. Now it's a case. It is also true that the current ministers, the current government, must carry out two functions: they must lead Slovenia, and they obviously run it very well, that is also recognised by others, those who are neutral and must lead the EU. I guess you don't think running the EU is just on a computer, but you're communicating with someone in Brussels, or you're saying hello to someone else there by the way. It's not like that. And in addition to the ministers sitting here and the Prime Minister of the Government, they must be elsewhere present. And probably by the laws of physics, you can only be on one end. That's one thing. Secondly, what I would like to say is that when ministers unfortunately have to leave Parliament and go abroad, they are very happy because they do not have to listen to the various killings of Mr Squeak and similar, which also destroy Gorenje's good name and so on, that I will not talk about it again. I support this balance because I think it's really good. And I'm glad that the government is in the second year in a row, which means that the trend, that it's not an accident, has succeeded in having a surplus. And it's not really what you're saying that something happened to the government, that she just stood at the station, and that she jumped on the train that drove by. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it's not that simple. This train didn't just happen to bring in. This train obviously needed to be programmed. Why haven't you ever programmed it, and I'd just bring it to you for high economic growth and low unemployment, and for high reputation in Europe and so on? That didn't happen to you. Didn't you know how to program this train? But what's interesting is that this government has everything going on. The very good things are happening to her. And we're really lucky to have such a government that good things happen to it all the time. But we had bad luck in previous governments, and the good old ones never happened to her. It's true it wasn't all bad, and I admit it. But only good things happen to this government. But now you're gonna have to [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mrs. Potrat, please, if you'll calm down. You'll get your word and you'll be able to tell everyone whether you have a program or you don't have one, or you're up for the same things that you've been doing a month ago. After all, your fellow Member, Mr Squeakl, has continued to "sow" for two years, how Slovenian public finances will fall apart because pensioners have a better pension balance because they receive more in pensions. And that's how he communicated with Europe that they were bothering us in Europe, yes, what are you doing with pensions, what are you really giving so much money that your public finances are going to fall apart. Now it has turned out that without public finances falling apart, they even have a surplus in the state budget, two years in a row. If you had a program, you would know what you want if you knew that it was typical for a social state that pensioners get what they deserve for their past work, that they must have some suitable pensions that have to be compensated according to certain rules, with salaries, then your colleague Squeakl would not spend two years doing such stupid things for the sake of pensioners, because they get too much for pensions to break up. Make a program, and for God's sake, agree on what you want. Tell me if the money's going to fall or not. It's not like you're just making fun of me. And it would also be right for me to tell Mr Squill that he should no longer destroy Gorenje's good name. I think Gorenje is such a good company and that it would not get into a difficult situation, including the social situation of the workers working there. Workers are not at fault if they work on the program of eight-wheelers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u97	Mr. Petan [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u98	I'm sure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u99	Mr. Petan, hold on please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u100	I support this balance because it's good and I'm going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u101	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] First of all, you haven't discussed it yet, second of all, you don't have a replica. [[...]] Mr. Bostian Zagorac. Please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u102	I propose, Mr President, that at any time any of the Members of Parliament, when they do not have the opportunity to replicate, interrupt the debate. Because my fellow MP, Mag. In the debate of fellow Member Petan several times was mentioned in a disrespectful manner and because we have a long-standing debate ahead of us, I suggest that you warn Members when others are upset with their discussions to stop, especially when there is no one who can replicate in the Chamber. He could have replicated, but you didn't do anything to calm your colleague down. As the main theme of the Social Democrats' programme, the alternative government programme, sees in this discussion of the budget today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u103	What's your procedural proposal, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u104	To lead the session by reminding the speakers when they insult others, let them stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I've been very careful. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, you came to the hall after Mr. Mag went. A joke from the gym. When Mr Petan started his debate, he mentioned Mr Squeakle. I was surprised he didn't ask for a replica right away. Since he mentioned it, I thought the replica was going to leave the hall. But let me make this my own decision, because I think I'm following the Rules of Procedure and trying to be honest right now. Mr. Bostian Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u107	Yes, I, Mr Zagorac, agree with you to wait for them to talk. Thank you very much, I hope it's peace. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. As far as Gorenje 8x8, you know, a worker in Paloma works on a machine he doesn't have, and Mr. Bajuk promised him, and he didn't. That's it. Comrade Petan, I call you, you can also have a replica if you want. When I hear an explanation of why this budget rebalancing should support how good it is, it seems to me that this coalition, this government, Mr Bajuk, Mr Janaša, did not come by chance, sent by God to save this country. I really think when I listen to what's good, they're sent from God. But unfortunately, it's bad luck that people don't think that way. They think a little differently. When we talk about the rise in the social balance of the budget, respectable colleagues and colleagues, I will tell you the following items. Social protection for the materially threatened because we are talking about poverty, the poverty that is present in this country, even though you deny it. The poverty that my fellow Member, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, has been warned of, and Mr Janša, from God, has been sent to hide his eyes, saying that it is two tables. It's not true. Poverty is a little more. He may not have understood it, but even if it is not said from God that he understands everything in the world, the national money in this area is falling by seven million euros. If we go to maternity homes and a shelter for children, it is reduced by 61,000 euros in budget. If we go to the protection of people with disabilities, the budget is reduced by 10,000 euros. If we go to the disability social inclusion programme, it will decrease by 10,000 euros the budget's balance. If we go to the implementation of social protection programmes, it will decrease by €8,107.001, I will say, incentives for the country to develop these programmes. If we go to social protection for people with disabilities, the budget at this level is reduced by 2,233.212. And please let me tell you what the social nature of what I've told you is here? Mr Štebet's call, which he does not understand, has probably played games so far on the computer, what we are talking about, I would ask if you would silence him a little, because this is not part of the culture in this House. But it's okay. What a government, such Members. Let's move on. With regard to other matters, as regards the reduction of costs at the expense of defence policy and Minister Erjavac. In this four-year period, we have proposed several amendments to reduce the costs, wishes, defence needs of this government, and we have given them or dedicated them mainly to the development of social policy, disability, foster families and others. And three years ago, two years ago, a year ago, when we were adopting budgets for the following years, you all voted against. And you said that the obligations in Nate are just what they are. And today you say, "Congratulations to Comrade Erjavac for giving up four rockets, two gasses, three, I will say, I'm still becoming RKB and I don't know what else we're going to do with this money somewhere else. What was different three years ago?Oh, my God! Did the NATO membership that you were digging into come cheap? I don't think so. This membership has remained the same. Why is it better today? Except for the September elections. That's different. Votes, your own pockets, and what else to feed. This house is beautiful, air-conditioned, it's nice to be in. And if we're doing this on behalf of the people to whom we're actually taking some stuff, then it's, I think, an evil that neither the previous government allowed nor allowed. Whoever wants to talk at the expense of the former government. And once again, when I listen to what this rebalancing brings. I tell you, there will be a renaissance when it enters into force. In this country, we will flourish all, including those 200,000 poor people living in this country. And just for a minute, if you'll allow me to touch this so-called darling supplement that we're all talking about. Let me tell you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, who know who will let you down a little bit to get information, because not all of you, most of you are here to squeeze, but those who let go. Let me know what he was conditional on. Was he conditioned by social transfers? Yeah. Was he conditioned by the provinces? Yeah. In order to introduce him in August, there are elections in September. We will not oppose him, for it is good to give to any pensioner who cannot survive and walk on bread for one euro, because the bun costs half the euro. But September is the election. Let us give them August so that they will not forget, are slightly older, and they must be given August to know or remember who gave them. But this House will give them. Regardless of political connotation. Then don't hit the government on the chest. The government will propose - Parliament will adopt it. So please don't brag, don't lie, don't cheat! And when someone said that he was here in this kind where Lipa sits, that she had to be silenced, or that she'd be gone in a short time, that there was not enough room, I'd tell you one thing. Some government parties have too much space. And people will be able to assess that, and this place will really change, and I believe it will be different. The desire of every individual who hopes to do anything, whether he will go to the fortune teller, or look at the magic bullet, who will sit there, I only hope that it will not be the government of Janez Janša, because I am actually afraid of her.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u109	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Excuse me. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If you allow me, I would like to remind colleagues and colleagues, especially my predecessor, that we have just received, at the initiative of the opposition Member, a piece of material called Comparative of the data Proposal for the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and the Proposal for a Rebalance of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. And about what my colleague Zagorac was saying, let me say, to the Slovenian public, that he was deceiving. Indexes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u111	Mr. Horat, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u112	My proposal is to have Mr Zagorac read this material and see what the indices are, because they are all more than 100, on those items that he spoke about as a reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u113	Procedural proposal, Mr Zagorac. Before you get the word, I'd say you got it all on the bench and that I've also notified you all and that Mr. Mag. Squeaked thanks for that, too. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u114	I thank you for the possibility of procedural, and I'll give it right away in the beginning so there's no doubt about it or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u115	You still have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u116	That's why I'd design it right at the beginning if you'd let me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u117	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u118	I would ask you, Mr President, to suspend the individual's personal assessments when necessary. The Lord, who had procedurally before me, claimed some things about which, I don't know whether they hold or not. I can tell him that I've read these stories that we got on the bench, and I can also tell him just by interrupting it when it's necessary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u119	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u120	But I want to tell him that I have three minutes to explain, don't I? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Wait, now calm down a little, because this is not a thank you very much for your proposal. [[...]] If I were to stick to it, it would be a permanent interruption. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u122	I, Vice President, have a slightly different form of procedural proposal. I don't know what it's like with you guys over there, but on this side, it's awful about the climate. I agree that in Parliament you are arranged, in long sleeves, jacket, tie, etc., in this I try to insist. Under these conditions this climate is almost impossible, and since the next week is an extraordinary meeting on corruption events, etc., I would ask you to join the ruling coalition, whose member is the one who has assembled this climate, ensure that it is at least so cool that we can work under normal conditions. So, my suggestion is to find out what's wrong with the air conditioning. This climate does not work as it should, and I hope that this Parliament will still be able to work under normal conditions. That's why I think he has more options than we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I hope that this warning is also appropriate, and I hope that this will be settled. Even though it's hot for me up here on this side. Here you go, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Apparently, today, many people are already harmed by the smallest of their paws. Here we actually have a document before us, and who is so skilled and at least reads it a little bit, he will see that the discussions by both the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Finance and also by a number of coalition Members prove that these were not some untrue statements, but arguments that can be seen here, and things are undoubtedly true. I'm going to support this budget rebalancing myself. Because this proposal for a budget rebalancing is a change that primarily benefits citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and is not the result of some poor economic situation in Slovenia, so that some things need to be changed in this budget now in a way that is worse or in any way worse for the economy or for people. In addition, we now have a surplus in this budget balance, which has not been normal in Slovenia in the past. And to this achievement, I think we can all be proud, and I expect that we will continue to have such a balance sheet situation. Why is that? Some, especially by the opposition, read us or read us - this has come to pass, but the world trend is so, and the credit for it has neither the Government nor the change of legislation in this area, but it is so, whoever it is. But it doesn't hold that far. If we look into the memory a little bit, we know that as soon as 2005, we started amending a number of laws, both in the field of tax legislation, I think that this was one of the key factors that contributed greatly to this situation, as well as in the field of labour law, in the field of social law, in the simplification of a number of laws that allowed economic operators to operate more easily and more transparently. And when we changed these laws, if we went through the memory again, it was always on the part of the opposition that it was always possible to detect only the criticisms, whatever the law was in the debate at the time, that they criticized. Even today, many can recall when we began to change the law on pensions or on the coordination of pensions. He was one of the biggest opponents of the change where we began to reconcile pensions with the rise of wages, and he was constantly deceiving or persuading us that the collapse of our system would occur with this law. And there were so many such criticisms. However, these measures have brought positive changes every year from all these numerous laws. One of the positive changes that has been changing all the time has been that we have begun to employ more and more people and thus to reduce unemployment. At times, we can hear primarily from the opposition that this is against deception, that the government or those who give this information are used, some different methods, or that the data is otherwise presented to be hidden. I don't think that's true. But the facts show exactly the opposite, not only that unemployment is declining, employment is increasing. It means that if it's reduced somewhere, it's increased somewhere and the calculation is completely simple. Only information that 24,000 new jobs or that active populations have increased in 2006 can convince anyone that this data on unemployment reduction has actually been justified. On the part of the opposition today, we have been able to hear several times that this budget rebalance is a populism effort, which is aimed mainly at a pre-election campaign or a pre-election period. Here it was reported that right now we remembered that the law on subsidising the student diet of this title had been tabled in Parliament and adopted that, even now, this dradnian supplement to this account was introduced that the law on free kindergarten in this title was adopted, but that is not the case. Every farmer knows that if you want to share something, you have to create it first. And in 2005, when we took up this mandate, there certainly was no possibility in the finances of our budget that such legislation could be adopted at that time. The favourable financial results that we have today enable us to do so and so is it. And I am sure that in the next term, which will certainly be chaired by President Janez Janša again, such solutions will continue for the benefit of citizens and citizens. In 2004, we had, if we now compare Slovenia with the EU, somewhere below 75% of the GDP average. After three and a half years, we're at 94%. We have unemployment among the lowest in Europe. Minimum unemployment rate! All of this is data or results that are evidenceable. Today we listen to the obvious again, but why we can take so much in defense, why we couldn't do it in the past year. I still argue that I would prefer to devote every euro dedicated to the area of defence to social, health, pensions. However, we must be aware that it is possible to think this way when there is no threat so that the state of Slovenia could be threatened by some foreigners. But if we remember in 1991, when we were actually in an unenviable position in the field of defence, I think we would give everything we had so that we could have weapons and defend our sovereignty. That is why it is also right that, according to the capabilities of the state budget or finance, the matter is being updated, financed and that we are ensuring the security that comes first when we are at risk. It is true, however, that investment in the defence ministry can also move some priorities for a year or two at a time and that that money is devoted to those areas which are also important at this time. There is also much debate in this House about so-called poverty, I do not know how bad the number or more than 200,000 deceive that poverty is in Slovenia. Just yesterday’s article Finance proves by those who know something about these matters that is far from being the case. True, anyone who is poor but not guilty must be helped by the state to survive a decent life. But it's not like 200 grand. Some are estimated to be 45 thousand. And that's the kind that needs to be taken care of. And the country or this government and this legislation pay particular attention to this. We're saying we're not social. Now I ask - is social society or the state such that it shares social assistance with those who are not entitled to it? Is the social state one that gives social assistance to those who are able to work not willing to work? I'm sure you don't, and most people would probably say that. It is right to allow social transfers or assistance to those who need such assistance, but not by their own fault. Whether it was a disease or a set of circumstances, or anything that led an individual or an individual to it, it is only right that it should be helped. And the state of Slovenia is paying special attention to this. And that's all I have to say, and then I'm done. It is once again being debated here and is deceiving how much less money is earmarked for social transfers or for the social field. These are also untruths. Even if the money were not meant for here, the law obliges the State that anyone entitled to social transfers must be paid to it by the State. However, it is true that less resources are planned or envisaged on these items; not to reduce social transfers to anyone, but as I have already mentioned, because of so many new jobs, so much less unemployment, there are fewer needs for such transfers - in total, but not for individuals. It is therefore appropriate to discuss these matters in this way. Of course, as I have already mentioned, I will be happy to support this budget and I believe that it will benefit our country in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Regardless of your debate, Mr Member, I would like to remind you once again - we are discussing the general part of the balance. Please, because otherwise it may be that time is running out for the special part and for the third item on this agenda. Here you go, Mr. Sasha Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First, I'd like to point out the speaker who spoke before me. Dilemma; armament: a just and social state. He said that he would gladly support such a solution in terms of equality, solidarity, socialism, in fact, with other words of humanity on the one hand, and on the other hand, weapons. Of course, if it were in principle, I would be able to show this joy to myself and all those who would be entitled to it in 2005 and 2006 as well as in 2007 at the same time as the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But since he's obviously a colleague who spoke before me, so much of a dig to himself and to everyone else, he didn't want to prove it, but today the words are cheap, and that's why it comes out of the theory that people forget too quickly. The second thing I would like to point out, which really saddens me, unlike the present case, is the leader of the New Slovenia Group. I didn't expose myself on purpose in the context of the replica. When he says that the general part that shows the revenue and expenditure is different from the words that my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, put forward. I personally expected Members, or, finally, the leaders of the groups of Members, to devote so much energy, fitness or knowledge to the processing of the act before us today, and to read more than the first 7 pages showing the balance of income and expenditure quoted by the leader of the New Slovenia Group. My colleague Zagorac accurately dissected individual budget lines across the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and there is no debate about this unless you want to lie to the Ministry. For he spoke to you about the information signed by the Minister or, I apologize, Mr Andrej Bajuk as the drafter of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I would like to point out, in the context of my debate, as a complement to the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. The talk was about this year's so-called "unique" of budgetary resources, when the government deliberately gave up part of the funds allocated to the Ministry of Defence. All previous years, ladies and gentlemen, this has always been seen as an untouchable area, as an area from which nothing should be taken, only to give, because it was the commitment of our country, the Republic of Slovenia, to international, foreign integrations. Nevertheless, we have tried, at least for the Lip Group, to ensure, by means of amendments to each budget, to show or offer the reallocation of these funds, for which I say again today and here, at least on behalf of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Boštjana Zagorac and her own, that if Slovenia has made substantial mistakes, it has made them at 1.7 billion when you enriched this country with a military technique that is not at all suitable for our country. We all know, solely because of the so-called weapons lobby of the past, from the present and not least, which will also take place in the future. In support of his words and in rejecting the words of Mr Willi Rezman, who wanted to defend the Minister against the truth, because the fact is that Minister Karl Erjavec, the President of the Pensioners, signed all the purchases mentioned for our country of unnecessary weapons, and that he did not sign any act that would allow, not just the clientele of pensioners, not just the clients of the socially disadvantaged, especially the customers who are the most important, who is shaping competition and thus the economy, because we are all aware that we can have a successful social situation exclusively through a successful economy. But, of course, this area, the area in the Republic of Slovenia, which lives today and here, is quite irrelevant, in return for individual interests in connection with friends of the ruling party, friends of the minister when purchasing weapons. This is why it is very specific from this city: a document signed by Mr Karl Erjavec and presents an answer to my parliamentary question on the acquisition of arms and technology for the purposes of the Republic of Slovenia, for the needs of intermediaries who have earned much. It has been said that Slovenia is reducing funds for the acquisition of weapons. It's a lie, a lie, a lie! In 2004, Slovenia committed 397 million. The following year, in 2005, it dedicated 413 million euros, the following year, 2006 and spent 486 million euros, and in the next year, the only year completed, it allocated 497 million euros. And whoever claims that Slovenia, within the framework of public finances, that is to say, the financial resources paid into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia by Slovenian taxpayers, and in the form of a natural or legal person, have not been allocated annually to the arms of our country, ladies and gentlemen, is lying. And the fact is that Slovenia was not militarily threatened in 2004, not in 2005, not in 2007, and not this year. However, we are more armed, given the number of inhabitants and the square that we have, such as the United States of America, which we all know are leading an imperialist policy, as far as foreign policy is concerned. Allow me to introduce you to the document, and I have been acquainted with it only an hour ago, and I believe that you are not with it - this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which in its opinion 134 wrote down in connection with the purchase of weapons, that is, those where noble adducts appear in the game in order to transfer responsibility to imaginary persons where DeSUS is appearing with its president as the main actor and where all those who are not cleared in the past appear, and that is why they are also happy today, and therefore will also have the joy of buying a new weapon tomorrow, the anti-corruption commission's opinion has come up on just a few pages. And this opinion of the Commission notes that trading in this matter - no matter what we are now referring to, on the Finnish investigative authorities, if they have taken the first step, and we have not, because we are closing our eyes on it - says that the actions made under this title under the third indent of Article 2 of the Corruption Act represent a system of corruption in our country. But of course, a lot of people are about to say again, but what does the anti-corruption commission know? I want to tell you that it is in this area that we must not defend it, not because the Democratic Party of the Retired or their President has signed all kinds of documents. But it can't happen in the future. The arms trade has been and will always be, but let us not allow it these negative dimensions that are between us today. I would like to point out something else, at least I think there are very important documents or very important responses to some Members who have spoken today in connection with the budget. I sincerely hope that I will not offend anyone too much if I point out that the three quarters of the ruling majority have spoken to you, what the experts have written down, and that in fact it is very difficult for you to understand the content. Comrade Veršnik said: "The vast majority of entrepreneurs are happy with tax matters or news. Ladies and gentlemen, are you serious? Every slightly more capable entrepreneur opens an enterprise abroad to transfer funds there, that is not financially burdened here. Things about "off tops" are blooming like they've never bloomed before, and here you are sneezing and boasting about how successful tax legislation is. There's never been such a very frequent trade in "off shorts"! Why? Due to inadequate domestic tax policy. And what's going on with that? Not just by breaking the law. This is how our country loses its financial resources. And if I initially talked about Laffer's effect, which the Secretary of State referred to in his interview, ladies and gentlemen, this is the only real effect of Laffer's effect. In addition, one of the ruling coalition members spoke of the so-called European Union funds. Let us once for God's sake tell you when we will adopt that act that will talk about the implementation of the act that is here today! So we will only see with the 2008 final bill, which will be dealt with by Parliament in 2009 or in 1010, what was the realisation. However, we all know that when an act is adopted in two years' time, which will talk about the realization that that act has no effect unless it comes to the realization of that. And when we talk about the so-called European funds that are planned this year to receive €783 million in the budget, ladies and gentlemen, we can write that we will get them €13 billion. But what if we don't get them? And do not bluff the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with 783 million to get them from the Brussels Treasury, if statistics show us all the years ago, but let me point out that we only received 340 million euros last year and several more, but this year we are planning 100% more and despite knowing that our European bureaucrats are, for the first time, burdened by the Presidency of the European Union, domestic bureaucrats or better-spoken politicians, with the Presidency of Europe and this year's elections. Who in this National Assembly can believe that we will win and that we will, even the most valuable, have a surplus of €408 million from the European Treasury, while history shows us the ability to draw on our own, while the ruling Members themselves point out that projects are stopping in Slovenia because of administration and that we had something million in euros last year, I say, loss. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the document that is being adopted today writes: Most of the European funds that we will receive, I stress 783 million again, that we will give to Europe only 357 under the government's plan, that is, 400 million less, will be from the so-called structural policy, and allow this hearing, for all those who may not have read the said material or have not talked to some who really know each other, to Mr Genori, for example, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives to page three. Why? Because he's a realist. Structural policy is expected to bring, or structural policy funding, €414 million. Do you know how much we got in 2005? 36 million! But the approximate plan was the same as it was this year. So more than ten times less. A little more in 2006. For cohesion, our good government and, of course, the Members, who support this and therefore build the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, are planning to receive €105 million. Do you know how many we got? What was the final realization of the year when we were already full members of the EU, as we are now, that is, after joining the EU - 8 million! Why do the realizations of the funds received, as per month, by thirds, reach 10% after half a year? Because of the fact that Slovenia is simply unable, because of its internal limitations, it does not know or does not want to draw on EU funds. It's not just statistics, it's not about planning almost 800 million while we have 400 net revenue. It's because these funds, these numbers make up expenses. And if this does not happen, the expenditure of the state budget will not be the same as you show them. And what do I personally fear, or rather what do we fear in the Lip Group? We fear, ladies and gentlemen, that you have brought before you or before us a document for which you do not care what happens to him at the end of the year. The fact is, you have two options. You stay in the elections, then even if it doesn't come true, we'll meet another rebalance in November, another correction. Each of the then Members will have the opportunity to speak for 5, 10 minutes, half of what a wonderful document it is, the other half, what a bad document it is. But if the current government does not win or the ruling majority, the same words will be the same as today, only to change words. In short, on behalf of the parliamentary group, as I have already announced in the introduction, especially at the confirmation of our words by the Anti-Corruption Commission on the definition of corruption, opinion 134, with the purchase of weapons, I reiterate that only in recent years has it been EUR 1.7 billion, for which we have a country with two million people who are not military, at least without my knowledge being threatened by anyone, not from Italians, not from Austrians, not from Croats - we have a dispute with them, we do, but we have disputes from independence forward. We will probably have them according to the policy of agreement for the next 10, 15 years, if the politicians themselves do not grow up and cross our own smallness, which is made or led by the persecution, or by local elections, national elections, once in Slovenia, once in Croatia. But don't talk about the budget, which is ahead of us today or the balance, whatever, or changes, doesn't talk about the fact that this budget, for the first time, is geared towards improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy - because it's not; it's not; it's not social, it's not social, it's not solidarity. It is only an act dedicated to the elections, which is further evidenced by my assessment by one of the most bluffing departments of the Ministry of Defence, when it says that the Ministry, which has 560 million after the new Ministry of Defence, has cancelled 36 million and that a large bell will be set aside for part of these financial resources, not all, but a share less than 36 million, while in four years it has spent 1.7 billion euros on the purchase of weapons that we cannot use here. Because for the first time in 2008, we met the need to care for newborns. Minister of Defense, while he's been buying all these years. Do you know where he'll put the rest of the €36 million money? For the promotion and communication of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What communication project of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is ahead of us this year - I hope that it is not a demanding award question - these are elections in the National Assembly and thus, of course, elections within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why any words about the quality of this budget, gentlemen and gentlemen, about its developmental orientation, about following a successful economy, while criminalising previously, before a court, in front of every successful entrepreneur, are completely irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u127	Before I give you my word, I'd like to tell you that I've been informed that the climate in the hall is functioning normally. The problem may be that some slots are covered with paper or even taped, as it says, but they need to be discovered. Otherwise, the system works normally. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I think you'd be here in Del on the back of the floor. And that - as it's called - yes and that - saw the reason why some people in this room really don't have the climate working, but not the one who mentioned the climate. But I would say that first, if you so badly want to see our alternative government program, you will have to wait until before the elections because it is not meant for you, but for our voters, who are hundreds of thousands, and we will see how the autumn things will end. Above all, when we put our program into people's hands, we will know that what we are going to write in there will really be done; while for your program - I have it built online and every now and then I look at what it says so that I don't forget - it is very little in reality. But it is true that you have achieved what you probably did not write in the program, but you have made it possible because of different arrangements that those who have very high incomes pay less taxes than they have paid under previous governments. The second thing I would like to say is that, by the way, despite Mr Squeakl's absence, I would like to say that the 13-month financial year was 1997 and Mr Squeakle came to the government in March 1998, so that you will have to reconstruct the past a little bit, not to infertile. Finally, it is not true that the budget deficits of the past years were present in our budget until 2004. When we even look at the budget surpluses since 1992, when we can say that the first budget in the National Assembly was actually adopted because - or not even adopted but realized because it was only in 1992 that the first elections of this National Assembly were, perhaps all of you remember - the whole percentage of the surplus in relation to the entire budget was significantly higher than the current percentage of the surplus foreseen and the one from last year in relation to the budget and the budget balance. It is true, for example, that the level of the budget from 1992 to today has increased by ten times to this balance. And that's what you need to know, and that says a lot of things. So I would focus on what I am constantly listening to whenever we visit government representatives as, I will say, the partners in the talk at the Public Finance Supervisory Commission and we are listening to at least two ministers of repetition, I would say, the mantra, how very successful we are in drawing on European funds, but I think the numbers that they have offered to the Minister of Finance because he didn't invent them, but they have been invented by those departments that have to draw on these funds. The Minister of Finance has a duty to send money to the European Union, while drawing on funds is the task of everyone else, at least him. What European funds have been drawn from the Ministry of Finance, I think they have been thoroughly pumped out, because we see that, after all, the tax reform - I speak electronically and so on - has been carried out and has also been carried out by European funds. But we cannot say that for cohesion funds, we cannot say that for structural funds, the only place where European funds are being used up quite successfully is agriculture. While we speak about how we will draw €783 million from the European Union this year, unfortunately only for the common agricultural policy of 225 million, one good third or a bad third is said, it means that the Structural Policy funds should be given the index 728. If anyone believes this in this country, then whether it is a perfect alphabet in the field of European funds or blindly committed to what our coalition policy tells him. The same is true for the European Union's cohesion policy funds, the index is 343. This means that we should draw almost 2.5 times as much as last year. No, for God's sake, tell me stories! We know what cohesion means. We know that cohesion funds are primarily intended for very large projects and that we in Slovenia, unfortunately for such and different reasons, very fragmented projects, are too small projects and therefore, of course, we are not strong enough to be able to draw on these funds as needed. Unfortunately, I say that the realisation, which will be instead of 413 million or almost 414 million in structural policy, will be only 150 million or up to 200, is very sad for us, and therefore I believe that the article written by Dr. Mencinger, irrespective of whether he declared true socialists only DeSUS, as we have heard today, or sociodemocrats, because it is believed that socialists are no longer a suitable word in this country, I think he was very right and that his question raised at the end of the article, which says, "But if the result is close to zero, which is likely to change the budget surplus of EUR 69 million into a deficit of EUR 339 million, which is about one percent of gross domestic product." I do not want to get this wrong, but I warn you, all those working in the government and who you are transferring, I will say that the transfer of personnel to the actual users of these funds, both structural and cohesional, is very limited by the end of the year and that this promise, which is recorded in the budget balance, is a little lower than in the original budget, is much lower - we say at the local level that the budget is being inflated. This is what we all know who have ever done the budgets we've been dealing with. We know what the budget is for, but after this government is no longer in the government, even if it is the same color, because it doesn't matter, it's important that another team of people have to pay for something because you're lying in here in the budget balance. Without offense, this cannot be called otherwise than what I have just said, because it is attracted to hair - we sometimes called this "house numbers" - because it does not have real projects that are feasible, so that by the end of the year this money will flow into and through the Slovenian state budget to the operators of these investments, who are users of structural and cohesion funds. And then there's something else I'd like to say. Those who felt extremely hurt by a single comment - we would say down in Primorski "buttute" as it is called, conjecture, say - the President and you strongly opposed him, how you allowed such a thing, but at the same time you were unable to see the president, read the president, before a time of horrendous insult by the accusation of murder, the shooting of people, marked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u129	Mrs. Pecanova [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u130	Let me just say it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u131	I can't, look, this isn't a general work rebalance. That's some other problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u132	Yeah, okay! [[...]] At the time of the rebalancing, what was said to the chairman was said.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u133	What you're saying now. I heard that one, but then again, please don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u134	You heard that, too, yeah. And that's when no one did anything. So I don't think sensitivity can be just on one side of Parliament, but on the other, it can't. That's it. And I would also say that the constant repetition of one name can point to two things: one is that someone thinks that that person is so much in love with him that he has to go through teen pressure instead of saying that he is in love with him, or that he simply does not find any other topic than spitting and attacking someone instead of talking about the content of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u136	Good-bye to all of you. I have already come to the floor quite a while ago, because today's debate has actually shown only one very big problem in which the opposition was found, but also the fact that it is saving it in a way that in fact reflects only a low political culture. But often our opposition proves that that old rule that paper carries everything, the microphone in this room, and also in very different ways, but today let me point to a few points, but it goes really far. Earlier, one SD member, as well as some others from the opposition, had explicitly stumbled into a slight percentage increase in the revenue side resulting from the general part of the budget. One of the opposition Members even made a direct mockery of this. What this is really based on. This is a reflection of very good economic growth, which is exactly what this opposition does not want and does not hope to acknowledge. But the fact that at the same time it has even been said explicitly, and you can go look at the magnetogram that is worse than we are, and they have never been - you know, it goes beyond all limits! Now let's look at a little bit of numbers, because the methodology is always comparable, so do the textbooks on the FDV. If we look only at the last period of the previous government, when leading the government, Mr Rop, in the first year of this period, the economic growth of the social gross product was achieved according to official data, including European data, good 2%, from 2.3% to 2.6% of GDP growth, somewhere towards the end of the year. Last year, which is the basis for plans and evaluations this year, we also achieved 7.2% of the record economic growth of the social gross product in Slovenia. That's not a few percent bigger, that's not a third bigger. This, ladies and gentlemen, is almost a 3-fold increase in economic growth in Slovenia alone, as achieved in the last period of the SD and LDS authorities. And today it is those of the current government who were in power, either as Members of the Government, either as Ministers or as State Secretaries, who were directly involved in it, you know, that goes beyond the limits of good taste. Come on, be real! At least admit to this country the qualities it has. It is also in some ways a reflection of a political culture to acknowledge to an interlocutor the quality of which he can undoubtedly prove. And these things are a fact. The issue of privatisation was also raised as a particular problem. You know, let's look at the numbers again. According to econometric methods, companies in majority public ownership have achieved 6 times in the current mandate, not a sixth, 6 times better results than in the previous period. This is also the basis for this general part. How can you shave a fool out of this? These are indisputable figures that show that this government has been able not only to establish a quality framework for this budget, but also that this framework is solid and constitutes the basis for the prosperity that we are applying with the proposed amendments, but also other legislation that has already been adopted is not the subject of today's debate. And now, if it comes to the issue of privatisation, I would first recall that this is also one of the reasons for quality economic growth, which is reflected in the figures of the general budget. And that the decisions taken were without a doubt correct; the numbers, the developments testify to this. Now let's see what's offered as an alternative - we're comparing again. In order not to misquote a colleague who is not currently in the Chamber, I will help myself with just one sentence, because exactly the same topic a press conference was held a few days ago, and as the SD recipe suggests a withdrawal of policy, I quote, "from all companies" and so on. Now the interesting thing is who proposes it - Mr Tone Rop performed there on behalf of the SD. Mr. Tone Rop, which we remembered exactly after television showed him how he yelled at Mr. Jankovic when he was the director of Mercator: [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u137	Mr. Grimes!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u138	"Remember, I set you up!"
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u139	Mr. Grimes!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u140	That's what he says, exactly what he did politically. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u141	Can I interrupt you, please, a little! Please! I will remind you that the debate on the general part of the rebalancing. And please don't comment on the press conference now. Please discuss the balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u142	Look, I believe you don't like what I'm saying, but the fact is, there's been such a ruse here that it's hard to talk rationally. Because the respected colleagues here who mock the unrestrained achievements of this government are exactly the people who were most responsible, with Mr. Robb - if you like, and I will name him again - at the head of corporate ownership all the time, practically after Slovenian independence, all of his positions. Even at the same time, he was in key cities in Sod and Kad, which is the only case. I can't even hurt you. Mr Cvikl, who has been extremely loud before, is one of the people who participated in this last government that I am talking about and where many are directly comparable. As a result, I point out that those who have achieved significantly worse results, who are objectively or even subjectively guilty of the abuses we are witnessing to them today, are now pouring all possible criticism on us and even making fun of the achievements that Slovenia can rightly be proud of. And you say that I am not talking about what was the subject of this debate. That's exactly what the debate was about all day. I listened all day to what the opposition was saying in this hall. If I just add something else to the end. There have also been a lot of discussions, including by the opposition, on the purchase of weapons, how this weakens our social life, how this weakens economic growth. There's something you need to know. I don't personally know, I don't have data on what's going on in all these purchases. But after all that I saw on television yesterday, where the director of the administration, Patrie, basically confirmed that there was an anonymous woman from Slovenia on this subject, I was just wondering if it would really prove that this is the fact that there was an anonymous one coming from here, and that there was nothing in the matter that was all legal, all fair and no corruption, and that it was basically just some continuation of the mud we saw in the erased, in the Roma, in the so-called censorship that this government was supposed to carry out abroad, I was wondering if the most loud ones in this Chamber on the opposition's side would agree to take a little look at their fingerprints or maybe make a DNA test to look at the mail that sent it. I'm very interested. As far as these purchases are concerned, just this. These purchases are the result of someone abroad who has committed himself a long time ago, which there are documents if someone is suffering from amnesia, that we will go into these purchases to spend 2% of the GDP on arms purchases. And please, today, when we try in every way to strike a balance between this promise, which has been made internationally legally and binds us, and between the real capabilities of the country, it is inappropriate and unfair to be criticized by those who were there. For this promise has been made by Mr Tone Rop, who is today in the SD Group of Members. And as a result, this country had to take some steps that were certainly not done by a light heart. She made them responsible for taking on the commitments she committed herself to in the time of the previous government, but these commitments still apply, and for maintaining credibility in international relations, and for taking on that part of the burden of common security, which belongs to her, given that she is a member of NATO, to which the people decided at the referendum. And that's why it's all kind of inappropriate to ask questions in general, or to shave crazy people out of it. And this also follows a very clear message, which today, in all this intense misdirection that could still be exposed in some cases, probably the President would like to take my word again, so I will end with only this. With this transfer, you know, it is also becoming obvious to everyone that the new quality that our opposition is predicting in public discourse is, in fact, only what we say in polythology with a simple expression - pure mere seduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u143	Mr State Secretary Znidarsic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. In view of the debate that was today linked to the draft budget and the fact that the scope of the defence budget or the budget of the Ministry of Defence is significantly reduced, and despite the fact that it is still being spoken in the sense that this volume is too large or that it is some concept of weaponry that someone has invented, I do not know - whether the Minister or anyone else within the defence system - I am obliged to remind you that the National Assembly adopted a resolution on the overall long-term development of the Slovenian Army in the summer of 2004, in particular on 13 July 2004, and that due to changes in the security environment and the integration into the EU and then adopts a programme or resolution that will be implemented by 2015. And all the purchases and all the activities carried out in this mandate by our ministry, that is, the Ministry of Defence, are based on this document. Based on this document, which has identified key priorities and directions in which matters will go. At the same time, I would also like to remind you of the scope of the financial resources or to draw attention to the record in this material or this resolution. This resolution provides that the volume of gross national defence product will reach 2% of gross national product in 2008. Here I must say that, in this mandate, we have not reached the projected rate of growth in the percentage of gross national product within one year. In this year, when, in essence, we should reach two per cent of this resolution, we will probably fall below 1.6 or below the percentages that we have seen in the past two years. Of course, I don't want to be fooled by the fact that this figure has not increased nominally - yes, this number has increased from year to year. It has been increasing for many years, as in many other areas, but the structure of the budget does not achieve the commitments made by this resolution, which was adopted in Parliament, as I said, four years ago. The resolution also identifies some or all of those procurements, which are also highly controversial in the public, defines the purchase of another vessel, defines the purchase of two tactical transport aircraft, provides for the upgrade of light armoured vehicles, and provides for the acquisition of medium armoured vehicles. Certainly, the decision of the National Assembly has gone in a direction such as Slovenia, I think also in principle, has accepted that we are building a small, professional, trained and equipped army, which we use in view of our strategic interest in crisis response operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I'll stick to the budget, not the personal trauma and frustration. I hope those who have already done this today are at least relieved and will be better able to cope with themselves. The budget and its reallocations, this is completely normal and necessary and I have to say, when I look at where we took it and where we gave it, I am fully satisfied with most of the stories. It's right that we're taking funds where there's too many weapons, obviously we don't need them. It is also right that we take the administration and the internal administration. However, I would find it more difficult to agree that it is right to take traffic. If we just look at the situation on state roads, including the very important ones, then we can be justifiably concerned and I must say that by taking the money away from state roads in a catastrophic state, I do not agree. On certain sections, such as Gorenjska, where the road was narrowed, dry, crushed, repulsive, there are warnings that point to a narrowing or closure, in some places after three or four years. Once a pearl, an international connection, a road from Podtebora to Ljublje, this year a tunnel was restored, which is good and good, it is catastrophically bad on many sections, and I will say that there is almost no municipal asphalt in municipalities with financial problems. Not to mention that we have already cut and arranged in the municipalities along the roads and thus improved not only the external appearance, but, above all, the transparency on the dangerous parts of the road, so that drivers can first detect the deer and the potential dangers that are approaching, this should be done and used long ago. On the other hand, the issue I am concerned about is that we have become, as far as Europe is concerned, net payers on the one hand, and on the other hand, by additional burdening the budgets of the municipalities, we have led to this stage, and this I am telling you honestly and well-intention that we simply do not hope to apply for European development funds and regional development incentives, because we are usually successful at the calls, but we no longer have our share and our money. Simply because you don't have your own resources, you don't have to apply for projects that, say, will be financed by 70% of the rest of the world. And that, I think, is bad for the country in the global world and we should also look for solutions. The Law on Community Financing, I must say that I do not strongly oppose it, is at least in the work that makes it possible for cohesion projects to be indebted, and in my opinion good and good, and in some municipalities, for example, such as ours, is a solution. We talk a lot about cohesion projects and drawing. See, the first ones to go into cohesion and report it to Brussels in 2004 had an assessment of the construction works and a coster, due to red tape, complications, complaints, and a wide range of cohesion only now in 2008. And I have to tell you that the difference in those design estimates from then on to today is many, even from 50 to 100%, because of the construction conjuncture. And that's where the big problems come in. And I ask all those who have the opportunity and, above all, the power to decide to think in this direction, because we will have a lot of European money left unspent if we do not help those municipalities that have serious problems with cohesion projects properly, we will simply not draw on money or, worse still, we will repay it with interest. Whoever listened to today's debate would say she's very polarized. On the one hand, painted mainly in black, on the other, but we certainly have some real problems in this country and we need to tackle them. It is not going to block the eyes, inflation is not a Slovenian condition, it is a much broader concept, but it causes problems in people's lives. We can't just ignore and deny the fact that we're attracted to energy. See, even the public sector in households, because of the political impact of electricity prices, we may not be able to raise the price substantially, but we will encourage it, as experts say, up to 8%. On the market outside this electricity we pay 25% more expensive than we sell. However, the municipalities were also undercut by electricity or electricity costs from 33% to 40%. The next problem I see is that we provide the municipalities with new and new obligations, new costs, but we do not provide additional financial resources or autonomous financial resources. It's a typical story, like a housing law or maybe a municipal policy. Is it the purpose of this government with a number of problems in which we have put municipal companies to close doors so that we can then grant concessions to foreigners who will be able to raise prices significantly more. There's something else to say about the economy. We have talked a lot about this, about economic centres, economic projects, but the Ministry of the Economy is seriously and significantly reducing these projects for the construction and development of economic centres. And I see it as one of the serious problems. Something to say in the social field. I have to say that even if it does, I will not oppose it, but I will advise voters to take it with pleasure, and when they get it, they will vote differently, more honestly and more honestly. We have also allocated too little money to important ecological themes. One of the big stories was that we spent €10 million on the Ministry of Space and Environment to restore and maintain watercourses. But I'll tell you this, it's just a drop into this water, and we're just one of the congregations that's supposed to be the worst damaged in the storm, and there's been damage to the country's watercourses for 5 million euros in our congregation. And so to say that 10 million Euros of extra money is an infinitely good achievement - it is not, but it is a small and real step in the right direction. Then it's about ecological issues. You see what's happening to us in agriculture, beekeeping and elsewhere. This area could also be further covered by the redistribution of funds. Whoever listened to the debate yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture knows that, for example, by relatively small means, we could help this sector, such as beekeeping, significantly. And, of course, the Slovenians have not yet allocated enough resources, they could also be redistributed, waste management, which will be one of the more important problems in which Slovenia will become involved in the coming years. And if what happens to the Italians happens to us that due to inadequate preparation, inappropriate behaviour, penalties are being paid to the European Union, then it will be very expensive. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I've seen a lot of deadlines, so I'm reopening the round of applications for discussion. There is still a debate on the general part of the balance sheet, and I allow myself to remind Members and Members once again. Mr. Gulic, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u148	I signed up for the debate, but I didn't see myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u149	I don't see you on the screen either. But since you signed up and raised your hand first, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I can also press the microphone. Given that we have heard great praises today, as well as very serious criticisms, I think it is good, but if we evaluate some things the way we should put things on the scale. I think the government's overgrazing with everything that's been going on, let's say, during this period has happened to the good. I'm not saying that in a lot of things because of witches, of course, there's no merit, but anything that's bad, or putting on the previous government or the opposition, it's just too much. It's just that some things need to be measured. I wouldn't even answer because it was okay for the state to "screw" and that it was actually a land of honey and milk itself, I expected anyway, both from Prime Minister Janez Janša and from the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrey Bajuk. But more than that, I was impressed by the fact that the President-in-Office of today's National Assembly said the climate was also fine. They're both from the same story. They're both not real. The climate here sucks. If you don't believe me, look at your coalition partners, how half-dressed they are today, except for Mr Bručan, who came five minutes ago and hasn't yet felt the benefits of this climate. But what I'm trying to say is that he doesn't just take my word for it. And I'm telling you, citizens don't believe either. Perhaps they believe the climate is better, but for the country and for their position, they know quite differently. I can say about the proposal for a rebalancing of this budget that, above all, it is not what is stated in the declaration that it is developmental, but that it looks forward and so on, that it is social and I do not know what else. But it's actually pre-arranged. Not bad, after all. I think that every government is trying to keep another mandate and that's why they're using all sorts of tricks. But to bring out some long - distance views, I highly doubt it. That's where the worst-case scenario is until 28 September. Except in those positions where he's burdening the next government. But we've talked about this a lot this year. At the same time, she also presented some kind of social trap of these emphasiss, a pre-election trap for all voters, because, suddenly, in the last year, she found money that she had not before. The most obvious is money from the Treasury Department of Defense. So far, we have kept listening to how important it is to come to two percent of the budget and give it for defence, not for weapons, as my colleague Grims said earlier, but for defence. You don't have to do this all of a sudden. Now one wonders whether it will really come into force that it is not the devil's limit, but it is the real neighbour, whether any silent agreements have been made again that all of a sudden there is enough money to be saved, let's say, even the newborns. I wouldn't believe it if I didn't hear it. Or is this moved again, of course, at a time when it will not be necessary to so skillfully spin the pointers a little further, a little further back and look for the most suitable time for a matter to be launched. The precious addition, of course, is now sent into conversations, not among people, not even when money is felt, then it will, certainly, be good and the opposition is squeezed in some way, because it is difficult to oppose such matters when the country is generous. And the question is, how are we gonna be here? But on the other hand, one wonders how this social note, this social accent right now, is being stressed, how is it that every customer wants to get away with some social note, if everything is so nice and right? There is no need, as there is no need to solve social matters if all is well if there is so much more employment. Just ask these people who have been employed in recent years, these young people, what wages, when they get up, where they eat, how they can work. Of course, that's not the point. About the quality of work, about development, all of this is suddenly dropped and, of course, it is only highlighted that some surveys have shown that it would be good to do before September 21st or 28th. And that's how people who run this country think how to fool voters - that's bad. It's a disaster. Except for this climate, of course, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to choose a speech or magnetogram of the speech of the President of the Government as a starting point when, after he had to wait for the National Assembly to be concluded, he was able to make his opening remarks on the rebalancing. Of course, first of all, I would like to express my principled view of the balance. In the position of the Group of Members, it has already been said that we will not support the rebalancing as we have not supported any budget so far, because it is an axiom in the relations between the coalition and the opposition that it actually expresses its different views on development and on the regulation of relations through budget lines. As a result, it does not appear to be too surprising or too demonic to the opposition, which, in the course of four years at each time of discussion, has either attempted to intervene with its amendments on the budget lines in places where it has seen those hotspots where the relationship between economic growth and the social state would be threatened. And whoever has taken so much time to monitor these things, but not to vehemently erase everything that has been said in this regard, would, of course, find the answer to the question of what is the social democratic programme of the party that I belong to. We are betting that the Scandinavian model is also viable in Slovenia, which means economic growth taking care of the social state. In doing so, I must say that I do not picture the social states as some imagine, but that the proof of the social state is the social sense of an individual who expresses it by donating it or acting with a mercenary, because it is already a known approach from history. In modern democracies, however, we are looking for systemic solutions. And if our common kinsman, psychologist Trstenjak, I quote the social sense is a fundamental character move, especially for northeastern Slovenia, where life was just the way it was. But I must say, in the 19th century, Styria overcame Kranjska by economic power. So much for history. But now let's look ahead. Of course, I cannot agree with this at the same time that everything that is important has happened during the time of this government. It may have been overlooked that on 1 May 2004, the moment that this country entered the EU was a major breakthrough and that these grounds for entry into the euro area were laid at that time. I have no problem with these things, and I can hear how this government is scribbling with achievements and so am I reading the Prime Minister's speech, where on seven pages and a half of the magnetogram it is possible to read a lot of words about what has been achieved during this time. In these words, I do not intend to politicise too much, but the Prime Minister also stresses that the better economic environment is mainly reflected in good economic results and consequently in higher employment. It will be said that the economic results measured by economic growth are good. But for the first time in this speech, I also read that productivity has increased and that the Prime Minister has praised it, because we have recently listened to how productivity in our country is the thing that makes workers' salaries worse than they could have been. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has taken pictures with union representatives in the meantime, but there is something to say about the fact that we are also facing the poor in Slovenia. This is with those who belong to the group with poverty at risk, and all are able to work, and they do not have enough and live below the poverty threshold. It is also known that 2/3 employees receive a salary, a gross salary below the average. These are the things that I think are wrong with those coalition Members who think we are talking about so-called poverty. Poverty is real, those who live it feel it in all dimensions, and I would say that many people already suffer injustice in these dimensions, that their constitutionally guaranteed rights, which speak of ensuring human dignity, are threatened. I don't know if we live in the same country, but not least, the Ombudsman, the advice in the State Council, the statistics on whether the polls on how many of them can go on vacation talk about not being able to talk about so-called poverty, but that poverty is unfortunately also something that we experience during the ever-increasing distribution of our country. In his speech, the President devoted nine lines to poverty, of which, of course, he was most pleased with where Slovenia is located in the European Union with regard to the threat and third place, but then finally he managed that sentence which spoke about the need to face even more decisively in certain areas of poverty eradication. And here's where I'm going to continue. For the opposition, this ugly opposition, which shows such a black image to the Slovenes, Slovenes, citizens and citizens of this country, has been attacked all the time since August of last year to warn of inflation. And it really happened that we changed the five laws that the Prime Minister has listed. But we have adopted these laws this year, their effects for those most threatened are only showing or will be, what will be the effects, but we do not know at all, because, excuse me, the effects of the increase in minimum wage and the transition from one class to another in income have not been accurately answered, and the unions have found that families with two children are particularly at risk if they receive a minimum wage. So, you know, these five laws that were amended are non-systemic corrections, which we supported in the opposition, because they do solve the most problematic things in this country's social image. But how did this happen? Mr Bajuk, I believe this was the case, first the amount for which child allowances must be raised, then it was calculated and 8.4% dropped out. And that's how you can talk about a lot of things. I deeply regret that national programmes for different areas have not been implemented. It's not just about defense, it's also about research and development, where we're far from expected, and it's also about code. And I find it difficult to accept that the funds have been reduced precisely where good channelling resources for various analytical research programmes could be used to provide clearer answers to the questions where money is needed, so that the effects of individual measures can be maximised. It seems to me quite frantically, see that at the Office of the Government of Communication we see an extraordinary increase in funds, and the Government responds that it is necessary to do so in order to promote "I feel SLOVENIA", right, this is very important, while it decreases in the Office for Equal Opportunities, the Office for Nationality and all other offices. Let me remind you that drawing on European funds from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for education is a worrying low. In doing so, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has not yet issued calls for programmes to, for example, launch non-governmental organisations to implement some programmes to increase the involvement of the most vulnerable groups. And I could also describe what is in this balance of things, which, of course, makes it impossible with joy, as some say they will, to support the proposed balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I'm not exactly going to lecture, and in a way, I'm going to talk in general about the social aspects. However, we could, because we are based on real social democracy and we are aware that this is one aspect of life, another aspect, of course, very important, and the development and success of the economy, which is fueling this solidarity in society. I am extremely pleased with the so structured and so designed budget rebalancing or budget for 2008. A quarter of a billion new resources are being restructured so that we create, predict and hope that there will be 70 million surpluses out of 230 million euros. All the assessments of the Minister of Finance in the current budgets of this Government have also been carried out or exceeded in terms of the forecast. And this conservativeness in planning actually has a very favourable final effect, success. If we look at these basic numbers, this is certainly not the pre-election move of this rebalancing. Perhaps shifting some funds from military to social work could be explained this way, but I don't think that's the case. I would almost believe that at the defence ministry they saved a huge amount of money when they parked old military equipment that was expensive and would cost a lot of maintenance, freed up some of the costs for the purchase, really useful military equipment. We must be aware that our soldiers are operating in a truly operational situation and that they are acting as peacekeepers, as I would say, peacemakers and some of the actions of countries where problems are. And not only that, they are ambassadors of our country and also of our economy. And speaking in a negative sense about such a designed and functioning defence composition of the Slovenian Army is humiliating. I think that the equipment of Slovenian soldiers must be superior, quality, their safety and the ability to function that they are in charge of. In fact, I am afraid in this structure of our society, if I think about what is happening in America and also in Europe and around the world, where there are problems in the real estate market with oversupplyed funds, so that there is no real collapse in Slovenia due to oversupply of manoeuvring purchases, where, in fact, friends from the past work hand in hand to hand so that cheap and with loans, unfortunately also by state banks, can successfully make management purchases. This overblownness could be fatal for the savings of such banks. I agree with those who have warned of this. In fact, I would like to conclude that the State guarantee, both for Dars and for some other elements, and especially for Dars, is completely hazardous and given the increase in traffic and given the introduction of the system of charging for freight vehicles, not only on motorways, but also on other state road networks, and that this traffic in Slovenia is indeed large and is increasing by 20-30% annually, there is virtually no danger that Dars would not collect enough tolls or supplies for the use of this infrastructure, because it will no longer be charged only what is so far and in such a situation, but we will have to slowly enter into the relations that have been established in neighbouring countries and will also have to charge environmental damage, where our carriers will also be able to drive with environmentally more environmentally-appropriate vehicles and thus pay less. When introducing vignettes, in fact, when moving into free traffic, while all of this is about guaranteeing some and talking about injustice, we are forgetting that we will all, when using motorways and paying for this use, when, in fact, with semi-annual and annual vignette, the principle of a large quantitative discount, in particular saves us time, costs, energy consumption and gasoline, and even less pressure on the environment. However, if the government decides that the concessionaire who is to build and manage a new satellite toll system will also take over the toll guarantees, this part can be exempted from the burden or from the State guarantee. That's a warm recommendation. This would release funds for guarantees for faster construction or modernisation of railway infrastructure, and in particular what we have not yet done to establish in some way, to build modern public passenger transport, which is mainly needed in some major cities, especially Ljubljana. Such a structured budget with an ideal composition, and I also think, in terms of conservative planning, final success at the end, with these social elements and developmental elements, not too much of the damage to the defence capacity and safety and quality of equipment of our soldiers operating in peacekeeping missions, that such a budget I am pleased to support and vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! Some colleagues have warned of the embarrassment of the opposition. That this embarrassment exists also shows that there is not really any former minister between us from the previous term. The only former minister who's even discussed this agenda item is mag. Squeak. This shows that it is actually a very big problem, the problems of all those in the former first league of the elite group, that somehow they cannot find the arguments, the answers and they do not want to face the concrete proposals that are in this rebalancing. This points to the difficulties or quality of this proposal to correct the budget that we have before us. Second, it also points to the technology taken by this government compared to the budgeting technology used by previous governments. The difference is essential. This budget or budgets drawn up by this Government shall cover all revenue, from 1.1. to 31.12. In previous mandates, we had budgets that had revenue included on the revenue side by 31.1. or 28.2. of the following year and expenditure only up to 30.11. of the current year. This is not the case in the planning of the budget balance or the basic budget in this mandate. There is also no hidden income or hidden expenditure. We know that right at the beginning of this mandate we have faced the problem of covering some 70 billion tolars that we had to include in the budget balance that we adopted at the time. It was a whole bunch of railway obligations, as well as some other programmes. Among these are adjustments to unrealistic wage planning and also material costs. As far as budgeting technology is concerned, I think that in my presentation that this government is planning a budget very conservatively, that the data written in the balance sheet at the end are safe. And it has always proved, in all the budget implementations so far, that we have significantly improved this data. The deficit was always lower than planned. In the previous term, we faced a situation where the government painted a relatively small deficit, and then three years later, when things were no longer current, we found that the deficit was not 1.6%, but 3.2%. Nothing in the preparation of these budgets and in the implementation of these budgets is such that anything of this approach could be challenged. Each time, budget implementation is better than planned. This government, however, is not as capable of selling it to the media as the previous government. When we examined the budgets of the previous governments, we had difficulty coming to the Assembly Hall at all. The camera, the reporters, as much as you want, today when we walked in, or almost no one. When we dealt with the final account of the previous governments, because what I said earlier came to light, it is said that the deficits were even made in spite of all these hidden matters that were significantly higher, no one was interested in this anymore. In his previous term of office, Piar worked on a one-time basis. Even if I am not mistaken, the former government once planned a budget surplus or very close to it. But unfortunately, we've never experienced this. Also, all the macroeconomic objectives set by this coalition are significantly exceeded. Public debt is being reduced, budget surpluses are being created and there is no deficit and public spending is being substantially reduced. All key criteria, macroeconomic criteria are significantly better than those enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. By the time you saw what we had written in the coalition treaty, you in some way stressed that this government would never be able to do so and this coalition. We have achieved, and this is significantly better and significantly more than we have written down there, and as we have hoped to think of the best optimists or the greatest optimists. Critics were unable to admit it anyway. We have made systemic changes in the field of administration, in the field of labour law, in the field of tax legislation. All these changes have also substantially changed the structure of the budget. If we were to work on the 2009 budget in comparison with what has been achieved, the changes in this part would probably be about a billion euros, approximately. 15% of the budget is restructured: there will be no more wage taxes, significantly lower income burdens, significantly lower administrative costs for all operators in the economy and so on. These effects have been greatly improved. I believe that there are few in the opposition who are even willing to discuss this seriously and to admit these matters. I don't think they are. The critics, those who discredit good solutions, are all you want. This has also been demonstrated in many of the laws we have adopted in this mandate, from the student diet, the protective supplements, the correction of income laws and so on. All the good solutions, not only did you not verbally support them, you even verbally attacked them, although then you may have even voted in favour very double. And we've known these games for a long time. As far as the effects of the changes are concerned. It is also necessary to say here that trends are extremely favourable. In the area of economic growth, investment, export, employment. About a third less unemployed are employed in this term or more than or less unemployed have been employed in this term. However, the level of social transfers is almost maintained; small adjustments in compensatory measures are the most at risk for the social sector. This means that the level of aid per user increases substantially. Although it may fall slightly, given that there are significantly fewer recipients of social transfers for unemployment through the additional measures we have put in place in the field of social and family policy, we keep these matters extremely good. All these budgetary effects appear, as I mentioned earlier, in some key areas. In the area of family policy, we have been able to substantially repair the allowances for large families; we have been able to raise the general benefit for the minimum two classes; for practically 4,800 Euros is a general relief for that group that has up to €6,800 and €3,800 for those with up to €9,500 revenue. We were very able to increase aid in the area of housing aid. Then we could introduce a free kindergarten for another child, expand the school fund. We made a major change in the field of scholarship policy and student work and also in the field of subsidies, such as for the student diet. All these measures would not have been possible if there had been no positive impact on the budget resulting from these amendments. Nor would it be possible to implement measures in the field of social policy, in the field of child documents, protective allowances, in the area of, say, compensatory schemes. We have introduced a quota system that allows for significantly better conditions for the employment of persons with disabilities. And even in the area of employment of this group, there are significant changes in this mandate. As regards some other matters, we have also taken important steps forward. For example, a very important change is in the area of directors' salaries in the public sector. A measure has been taken here, with which these directors' salaries have also been limited. After all, we have made some changes in some associations. We have introduced voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce, we have reduced membership in the Chamber of Commerce and we have also reduced membership in the Chamber of Agriculture. There are approximately 300,000 of them who are no longer mandatory members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. But there's a lot of talk about inflation. One of the economists, the former minister, who was the only one to discuss, spoke of inflation as a Slovenian problem. Inflation is not only a Slovenian problem, inflation is a global problem. The problem of inflation is addressed by all economies, from the United States of America to all countries of the European Union. Everyone feels the negative consequences - except for oil producers - of rising oil and oil and food prices. All of them. And some of the governments led by socialists, for example, the Austrian government has introduced some compensatory measures, including a dragan supplement. Gusenbauer's government, I think, some month ago, it also carried out a similar measure to remedy the situation. However, this government, in this government, in this coalition, this is one of the measures to be implemented, all the others or many others I have counted before. And when we're talking about these big stories about averages. You know, whatever government there is, whatever coalition there is, we're always going to deal with the problem of averages, which are just calculated because we have some rascal, some classes. And every time we calculate the average, even if you calculate it in the SD, there will be a certain percentage of people below the average. Always. Mr. Squeaky of this model, so that everyone can be on average and no one on average can set. Neither did Mr. Rope. Because it's impossible. And all those who speak and discuss poverty and the threshold of poverty might read what this definition actually means that we would be able to discuss it properly, for poverty or the poverty threshold is not what you always want to stress in every way. And while we are already looking at the quality of the reforms that have been implemented, instead of what Mr Cvikl has asked us to compare with the implementation of 2007 to the 2008 balance, I would rather ask that we get a comparison between the Rop-Marmor tax legislation and the revenue of the budget and Janša-Bayuk's models, which we are currently dealing with. In fact, it could be found here in the right and correct way whether the legislation adopted at the conclusion or just before 2004 is the one that is better than the legislation in the field of taxes we have adopted in this mandate. This would be a real indicator and we could also have this real debate here. And a closing sentence. The results achieved by this coalition in the area of reforms and the implementation of budgetary revenues are those that enable the functioning of the social state which have enabled the immediate correction of pensions to take place immediately at the beginning of the mandate, and which allow us to implement many measures also in the area of pension adjustment this year: a method of coordination, a protective allowance and for all those who are still below a certain threshold for the monthly income of the pension, we will introduce a so-called one-off payment. There are many things we have done in this mandate. I'm sorry that some people don't see them or they don't want to see them and talk about things in a completely depressed way. I am particularly sorry that this is said by the people who have been ministers who have economic education and allow themselves to have such discussions on data that are fully credible and verifiable. If any information in the material is wrong, we'll fix it. If the data isn't wrong, then we can talk about trends. And trends are remarkable. Therefore, these corrections and all these measures, which I have listed, also make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that I have already discussed this, it is only for a short period of time that European funds or the drawing of European funds are still available. I would like to say that the Republic of Slovenia or this government has negotiated €4.5 billion for the next financial perspective 2007-2013. 4.5 billion euros. And in the next seven years, that money must also be used. And I support, I very much support the government or the budget rebalance that this is also set up so ambitiously. That's the way it has to be. If we divide this figure into this period and given that the backlogs from 2006 and 2007 are still in place, some over EUR 800 000 is a purely real figure in the budget balance. And it also gives this, or it must give incentives or a better-spoken commitment to all ministries and all local communities so that we can spend this money, and we will also have appropriate projects to do so. I'm pretty sure the projects are. What some of you have said - yes at the end of the day, money will not be at this height and because some surplus is planned, what will then happen. You know, if it's not 100% cash-pulled, that means there'll be so much less expenditure on the spending side. But anyone, not only who prepares the budget or knows the budget, but who can also count and count. I also support this area, and I am also aware that it is a great obligation and I am also sure that it will also be maximized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Homan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Today, through this debate, I have heard only the murmuring, dissatisfaction by the opposition, how bad everything is in this country, how many poor people we have, how nothing is happening. But I can tell you that's not true. In our parliamentary group, we went to the field in early January, visited 11 provinces, from the envisaged 14th to the end of this mandate, we will visit all the provinces, and I can assure you on my behalf, on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, that it is good in Slovenia. We met a number of people, visited a lot of companies, economists, schools, homes for older citizens, Slovenia is just a construction site. As much as this moment is being built in Slovenia, it has not yet been built in Slovenia. Both private houses and apartments are being built as well as schools, hospitals, institutions, something is happening in Slovenia. And the opposition's findings that everything is so black, everything so critical, they don't hold. I'm calling my colleagues to make sure they're people. We've heard from the opposition that too much money is spent on the military. Yes, he was to remind those who did not participate in the independence of Slovenia of what it was like when we did not have our weapons. He mentioned to his colleague that we don't need helicopters, that we don't need guns, that we don't need armor. Yeah, we really don't need them in peacetime. But then a colleague would also ask why he has an insured house, why he pays his pension insurance, because he doesn't know if he needs it, why he pays his car insurance, because he won't need it either. In short, these are the things that have to be. And there has to be an army. We are in Europe and also in Europe today, we have troubled areas where fighting is still taking place today. Well, that's not far from us. And talking like that won't convince me. And I also think that there are no viewers and viewers all over Slovenia. We really don't need guns in peacetime, we really don't need that, but never say that. An accident doesn't rest. It's an old saying. And every normal citizen is aware of that. There's been a lot of talk about taking state roads. My friend, the Minister of Finance would have had a lot of gray hair deprived if the provinces had already been introduced, a lot of rebalancing would have to be less deleted if he went to the provinces. And if we already had the provinces, today a number of debates would be virtually unnecessary. I'd split the money into provinces, the provinces would decide for themselves what they need and what they don't. But colleagues oppose such a rebalancing, they oppose the provinces. I don't know what you want. I know what I want, so I'm going to support this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u161	Thank you. I am reopening applications for the debate on the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All that needs to be said about the general part of the rebalancing, given what I've been listening to in the hall and in my premises, is that we are not talking about these or those Members, we are talking about the numbers that are here. Unfortunately, these numbers are problematic for you, and, of course, we cannot support this balance. You cannot tell citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that it is right for everyone to pay their income if this makes us an income increase of 121%. You can't say that. If the situation is so good, then let's fix the income law. You cannot tell the economists, who you have increased their withdrawals by around 15 to 20% these days, that the situation is good if the effective taxation of the economy in 2008 is at least 100% higher compared to 2004 and there is an increase in income from corporate income tax of 14%. You cannot tell people that you are saving if the spending index is 114 and if the government spends on general material, for office material 43% more than last year! Look, last year's 101 million, this year's 145 million euros. You cannot say that everything is fine if, for example, you spend more than €39 million on transport. You can't say that the situation is normal if you spend EUR 201 million this year for maintenance instead of last year's 141 million. These are the numbers in the balance sheet. And all that has happened is that you have a high increase in the taxation of the economy, the payment of income payments peacefully distributed on the expenditure side for the great material spending of the country. The numbers given by the Ministry today at my procedural request prove that. Therefore, the only important figure in this rebalancing is that there is a 14% increase in expenditure and this will result in at least 7% to 8% of GDP growth. And the wages are rising - how much? How much does the pay go up for, gentlemen? In August, they may increase by 3%. Of course, we are not talking about social transfers and some other items that are not growing as well as possible. Take a look at, say, social security transfers. In 2007 we spent 143 million, in 2008 we will spend a million euros less! One million euros is less transfers to ensure social security. And, of course, pensions. To say that this budget is cost-effective and you spend less money on pensions, fewer transfers to the pension register, of course it simply does not go together. Therefore, the debate on general work is primarily a debate on the increase in expenditure and this increase in expenditure is too high to be able to talk about anti-cyclical policy. And even though Janez Janša and Andrej Bajuk spoke about anticyclical politics this morning, these indices show that this is not the case. These are the facts. Black on white. And of course you can talk as much as you want, unfortunately you can't deny these numbers, these are the numbers of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u164	Yeah, someone's been reading the opposition's complaint. I'm gonna take advantage of that right too. Very briefly, just so that I can tell my colleague Homan that if everything was all right, as he himself tells when he walks through Slovenia and sees how many construction sites are open, how people are satisfied, how schools are being built and so on, the support of the government in public opinion polls would be significantly greater. I appreciate the efforts of my colleague Tank, who, at the time of the inventory of this mandate, told us all the best. He didn't personally convince me, but he was looking in my direction, probably because I was the only one in this room on behalf of the Social Democrats with my colleague Majda. And he didn't convince me. Maybe we're looking at the same glass on the counter. I see him, I'm afraid, quite empty, my friend Tanko is glad he's two-thirds full. We argue that we could fill that glass, and we will also try to do so in the next term. Now, if they held that they had done, even through budgetary policy, the best of all, today would probably be support to the government over 70.80%, but a lot of people are jamming, justified or not - they will say that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u165	Thank you. I am reopening my application for a debate on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that again. As far as income payments are concerned. The payment or refund of the income is the calculation of the payments paid. If the employer fails to calculate the appropriate rate, this is an automatic consequence. Mr Squeakl as a top financier, an economist could have known that a long time ago. As far as corporate income is concerned, that is to say, from business, from profits, these revenues are mainly due to the fact that the framework of operation, the tax framework and the general framework are significantly better than it was. And the result of the efficiency of companies' operations is significantly higher than it was in the previous mandate. That's for sure. As a result, the revenues are higher, although the tax rates for the taxation of profits are lower. Substantially lower. And as for the burden of the economy. EUR 600 million, approximately, will reduce the burden on the economy only at the expense of the tax on salaries paid. And when we talk about these concrete consequences, then it might also be to say to the end and also to say these arguments. I did not suggest for free earlier that Mr Swickl might order a comparative analysis between the Rop-Marmor package of tax legislation and effects and the consequences of this and between what we are now doing, Janša-Bajukovo. There, in fact, we would see how much of the difference in income is due to what measure, if, on the same final result, for example, the rise in wages or final salary, the rise in corporate income, were taxed according to Rob's model. That would be the correct comparison, without shooting at something right now. On the other hand, as regards the quality of Mr Ciccle's forecast, we can also ask ourselves. When we adopted the first budget in this mandate, he announced that I do not know how much VAT will have to be raised in order to close the budget. Nothing had to be raised and the result at the end of the line was better as regards deficits as planned. And with such frightening predictions that Mr Swickl is working with the Slovenian public, however, it is very questionable. And this is also what some serious economists, who, now that I am the leader of the Group of Members, face, are laughing at, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u167	Thank you. Anyone else? Is there any other interest? Yes, Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is crucial that we focus again on what this is really about. When compared with what is public consumption, it is always compared - not from one item to another, it is viewed in whole and compared with the gross domestic product. That's it. Not if some office has a little more paper or less paper. The fact is, and it is undeniable that during the period of this government, spending or expenditure of the whole country, including all four cash registers, all institutions, all public funds, the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the Capital Society, has been reduced to a decrease of 3.6% of GDP, gross domestic product, and that we will approach 4% of gross domestic product at the end of the year if this rebalancing is accepted. And they can stand on their heads and point to the finger one way or another, the fact is, compared to the gross domestic product, which is the only comparison that has any meaning for reducing it, has already fallen and will continue to decline. What does it mean if this goes down? It is very simple: if a country has a smaller share in what a society creates, and this is what Slovenia has already achieved and will upgrade in this period, a greater space for what is most important in economic growth - that is the creativity of the private sector and that is how we know it and that is why it is such a success. Anything else is real vocabulary or the use and abuse of public space to sell fog or deny facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u169	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u170	First of all, Mr. Minister. Mr. Secretary, that's exactly what this is about. The corporate income tax was 1.95% in 2004 as a share of GDP. In 2008, with a balance of three and a half. The difference is 1.6% of GDP or 450 million euros. And instead of saving, you're spending it. And Mr. Tank. VAT did not need to be raised because we have twice as much inflation as the European Union. And if you have higher inflation, you get more VAT at 20%. This is evidenced by the figures presented by the Ministry of Finance. Look at the increase in domestic taxes, look at the increase in excise duties and see the rise in value added tax! And you'll see that we have a situation where inflationaryly inflated revenue is what flows into consumption. And Banka Slovenije said that the Government must be able to prevent the inflationary part of the public finances from spilling into current expenditure. And that's exactly what you did. This year you have a quarter billion euros more tax than legal persons' income, you have more VAT due to inflation, and this will generate new inflation, because the increase in expenditure is 14%. These are the facts. They are not spoken of by Cwickl but by the opposition; they are spoken of by Banka Slovenije in the price stability report. I was quoting the Bank of Slovenia. And if you don't believe us, Mr. Minister, Jože Mencinger, we will be paid a budget surplus in Brussels. [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Gentlemen, over the four months of this year, you have a deficit in relations with the European Union of €92 million, and you have to make it for 500 million in the rest of the year. Mr. Minister, how many projects have you prepared at the Ministry of Finance? Mr. Zhagar is not here! How many projects does the Ministry of Transport have? The Minister of Finance himself told the Committee that the projects are poorly prepared and, of course, says Mr Mencinger rightly that there is no chance that we would have a surplus in relation to the European Union. Within four months, we have a deficit, and in the rest of the year, if the Minister of Finance puts himself on the line, you won't achieve what you're proposing in the papers. In the documents you propose to increase revenue from the European Union! Look! Look at the numbers! Funds received from the Structural Policy budget. I'm just going to quote you one more number. Page two. Last year 56 million, 2008 - 413 million. Mr Finance Minister, on 31 December 2007, I invite you to lunch wherever you want, if this number is over 200 million. But you are planning 413 million, and this, Mr. Minister, is purely a misdirection of the Slovenian public. And it's easy to share such inflated revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u171	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I would like to remind my colleague that he was talking about an increased VAT rate when we were adopting the 2006 budget, so that there would be a hole in it. And then, if I recall correctly, we were in the process of entering the European Monetary Union and then we were fighting to meet the last criteria to reduce inflation for a longer period to an acceptable limit. The trend with regard to inflation is quite the opposite as you have just said. You were saying, if you're talking about this raise in VAT for 2008, we're now accepting it, but that's what happened at the time. And look at your statement from that year. The main "point" of the debate you had at the time was that the Government did not plan enough to have a budget hole and that it would be an urgent measure to implement the VAT raise budget. This did not happen in 2006 or 2007 and will not happen in 2008. And at the time, we were in a phase where inflationary trends were falling because we came to that low level to get the euro. This was happening at the time and I would ask that the debate simply mention that part, but not that you extend it to all the years you remember.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u173	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u174	Mr Tanko, you must know that we have warned you that when we take over the euro, there will be huge inflationary pressures and playing with high revenues at this time is dangerous. I will now quote Banka Slovenije again: "The average inflation rate increased by 1.3% in 2007 to 3.8. And in the first quarter, it's already at 6.5%." And what does the government do? 14% increase in expenditure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u175	Thank you. I can see two more hands. Mr. Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The barking of some is really strong and immeasurable, but please do not do this here, in this room, go to your office and cry there. About the numbers that some people talk about and only see one column, and not the other. It is true that the share of income is increasing. We know the indicators are favourable, employment is increasing, and so is tax reform. But about that much, for these 180 million euros, as this share is increasing, taxes on the payroll are also falling on the other side. So the surgery, if we look at it in our own way, is pretty neutral. With regard to European funds, it is true that they are substantially increasing by over 300 million or almost 400 million euros. But I don't think there's anything wrong here, either. We started with a financial perspective in 2007, and that's when the projects started. We are in 2008-2009. I think it is entirely realistic to expect, even in the light of the latest events this year, that these funds will be used and that these projects will be implemented. And I don't see what the problem is, is that cohesion is increasing to invest in cleaners, into development projects. Is that the problem? I don't know if that's really the problem. With all these infrastructure projects, we are only improving the general standard and updating the infrastructure of this country. So I think, from all perspectives, the balance is appropriate, optimal, and as such, I think it's worth supporting. Even by the opposition, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Sok. You'll get it, Mr. Sok. Here you go. It wasn't exactly a replica, but Mr. Squeakle, please, you still have time available, you can talk. Here you go. Mr. Sok will wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u178	Mr. Cernač, look, 180 million dollars in income is not at the expense of tax cuts, but because income does not come to the municipality, you have to compare other numbers. The corporate income tax, a quarter-billion-euro increase, to reduce taxes on the payroll of 150 million, the net effect of the increase is 100 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u179	Mr. Sok. Procedurally, someone wanted to. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u180	If we are exact, then this number accurately states it is not 150, but it is 156 million euros, so we are already showing here the credibility of these I do not understand, Mr President, on what basis such replicas are allowed. [[...]] I think this makes the debate difficult and I ask that we act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u181	Mr. Sok was so good that he gave up and with his hand ordered, give him your word, Mr. Squeak, and I gave it to him. Mr. Sok, thank you very much. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u182	Thank you very much. That's in what my friend Rezman said yesterday, if Mr. Squeakle doesn't have anyone else, then he's fighting with himself. I also stepped out of his commission for this reason, because it's going on the same way as here. He's going to say it's like this forever and nothing else, but I want to remember something. I'm not gonna talk about VAT - he's already talked to his colleague Tanka. When the Pension Coordination Act has changed, go and see, please, magnetograms. What did you say then, Comrade Squeakle? In this National Assembly, I don't know how many times you've told me that the pension system is going to collapse, that this is outrageous, what the government is doing to make it happen, I don't know what's going to happen because of it. You were not able to prove that the Government in which you were all retired with that famous Robo formula damaged all pensioners for 2.5 pensions in your mandate. The first law we adopted in this National Assembly was to correct the alignment of pensions with wage increases. You then convinced us in all ways and the Slovenian public and quoted us, even then Mencinger, which you are quoting today. Even then you quoted him and his records, and in this way, before the Slovenian public, you tried to present yourself as a great expert and scare everyone, but of course discredit the government. You are also doing this today, and you did the same when the government in the previous budget just gave itself an opportunity to eventually, if these finances did not come to the revenue side, as they planned to give themselves some opportunity to raise VAT. At the time, you were here in this National Assembly saying that the government would do that, and the finance minister explained it to you at least a few times. At least a couple of times he'll explain; it's not gonna happen if there's no need. But you argued at the time - it's in the budget, you'll do it and the dot, the amen. And that's what's left of it. Can you admit today and say, "I was wrong!" Can you do that? This, for example, would be expected if you did not have complete amnesia to admit that you then claimed something that did not happen. And today, too. On what basis do you insist that we do not make use of the European resources available? Today, major European projects take place in most municipalities. They are not finished, we have a contract of hands somewhere by September, and we will be able to talk about how much we have managed to make this happen and how much we have not. But you are putting forward your claim and convincing us Members, the Slovenian public, that this will not happen, as the Government foresees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Squeakl, you'll get the word for the replica, I'm just warning you that you're saving your time, otherwise you'll run out of replicas. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your apology. First. The pensioners are still waiting for these two-and-a-half pensions they have not yet received. And a second time. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Did they get them? [[...]] Did they get them? And secondly, we have proposed amendments to increase higher pensions, and now we will have to introduce a Dragan supplement in order to give pensioners who have not been coordinated with them for two years something to survive. These are the facts, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u185	Thank you. Since it is still an interest, I am opening up applications for a debate on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Mr. Petan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Well, it's kind of awkward to listen to Mr. Squeak. In fact, so far, all the catastrophic predictions he's made have proved to be unrealistic. First, I'd like to start with this famous VAT. And with this VAT burdened us daily, on all media they bombed us, he was the main star, how the government knows nothing about how 100% of the VAT raise will occur. Even this he had hoped to predict in the dozens exactly how much that VAT would rise. And he knew exactly the dates when this VAT would rise - and there was nothing out of it. Now it's been a year and a half and no VAT has been raised. And as it turns out, he won't be here this year. And if I'm right, no matter which government comes at the end of the year, it won't have to be raised in the second year either, because this government has certainly left so many reserves that VAT will not have to be raised. Second. Since the beginning of this mandate, he claims that we are giving too much money for motorways and that the state is in debt and that we must not build motorways. It was literally said that the state should not build motorways, that there were too many of them, so I personally asked him, well, Mr. Squeakle, and now tell me which section you are going to delete. However, it turned out that it is right to build motorways and that citizens expect to be built, the economy awaits motorways. The economy also expects better roads where they are not yet. And he was against it. So, that didn't work out for him either. He talked about how our financial system would collapse because of pensions, and we've talked a lot about that if we gave a pension bill like it is now to be a little bit more. Well, then he did some repairing his prediction that it would be a little later, maybe there in 2015. Well, then he went a little further, until 2030. That's what he says. Everything he said didn't go together. Second. Now he's talking a lot about how Slovenia won't be able to pump. Yeah, how the hell do you know where that came from, whether from coffee or from, I don't know, coffee spoons or from a cup or where? Nothing Mr. Squeakl has claimed has come true. And how can we believe him here now that what he now says about the budget is going to happen. Moreover, it is quite clear to me, which is not an economist, that the numbers he previously mentioned cannot go together. If the economic growth is much lower, you'll still get more in the cash register, but you have lower burdens. That's what every high school kid knows, isn't it, economists? And he sells us as much knowledge as we all are, I don't know, as if we didn't even have the ability to think, but whether we're economists or not. So we just can't trust you anymore. Because the great themes that you've discussed haven't come true, but they've turned out to be the other way around. Even the other way around. So, I'm sorry, I can't believe you, but I won't prove to you as an economist that the numbers you've been making, that they just don't go together, and that you're manipulating. You're a master for that, and I'll give you that! You know that well, but some things you can't sell us, as it's called, under the table, because we know so much because we went to schools, not just you, and if anything, we know a little bit logical. This is how I count these numbers, the catastrophic Mr. Squill, I do not believe and believe what the Government has prepared, and I will therefore support this balance because it shows a trend that has continued since last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u188	Look, all we talked about about VAT is not to cause inflation. Inflation is here, gentlemen, inflation is the problem! As regards EU funds. Last year, you predicted 275 million euros in surplus, and 9 million dollars is being realised. This year, you predicted €408 million in surplus, you have €92 million proven in four months. These are the facts. Facts hurt. Unfortunately, and someone has to say, and obviously you have a problem if you're told bad things.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I don't know how many times we've explained where inflation came from. It's a shame, buddy. It's gonna be a while. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u191	But you don't have to keep going. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u192	Time's up. [[...]] Yeah, well, time has to be spent. Look, he demanded, colleague of Cvikl, this additional table, realization of 2007, rebalancing of 2008. That's what we got. And what did he explain on the basis of this table - what follows from this? It's just a delusion. 13.6 on the expenditure side - yes, what did you forget about the revenue side? In fact, I have to say that there is no realisation in 2007 and the 2008 budget is a real indicator of what you have been explaining. Well, that doesn't work out. You know what you'd do? That's how you used to be in the past. So here on this side, on the revenue side the index nominal increase - zero and there between 10% and 20%. And then what's in the end? Yes, there's always been a shortage! And given that the final accounts for 2007, the budget showed a deficit and the final account was positive. Do you still not take this seriously that there was a positive closing account in 2007? And given that this government has already acted cost-effectively in the past year because the final account was positive, the result is that we were able to afford an index on the revenue side of 13.91% this year in terms of good economic growth in this rebalancing. And of course, as a result, on the expenditure side, in view of these commitments, which have now been taken over by law in the course of the adoption of the budget, this has also been included in the budget. And so misleading people, here we are, and those who follow us, I think it's really very unfair. Very unfair, cynical, yes. And it would be time for us to stop going forward, because I think we have a lot of work to do today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u193	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u194	One last attempt to explain to fellow non-economics what this is all about. If we all go to the market and have 14% more money in our pocket and the goods in the market are gone. What's going on? Defendants raise the price by 14%.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u195	Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm opening the application. Excuse me, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u196	Thank you very much, President, I suggest you stop these personal fights, take a break, let it take place elsewhere, turn the hall aired, otherwise after the next debate on behalf of the House of Representatives, I will require two hours of breaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u197	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Let him raise his hand to explain in the name of the messenger. Just Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u198	The Group of Social Democrats will not support the general part of the budget, because we estimate that there is no reason why, at a time when we have high inflation, inflationary conditional revenue would be converted to higher spending than it was in 2007. These are the facts arising from the comparative data presented to us by the Ministry of Finance. It is clear that on the expenditure side we have 13.56 per cent higher expenditure growth on key items, which means material spending - this consumption is almost 20 per cent. In our view, we have overblown revenues from the European Union and therefore an artificial surplus in public finances. With a view to maintaining the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, it would be correct to reduce the corporate income tax, which will increase by a quarter of a billion euros in 2008 in 2008 and therefore, in 2008, according to 2007, there will be a much higher increase in income from legal persons in small and medium-sized enterprises and there are economic problems. These problems in the economy show that we are limping about exports. Therefore, Slovenia is approaching the Argentine, Mexican, Portuguese script. This could be stopped if we supported the proposal for a law that we have tabled in the procedure, which is to reduce the corporate income tax from 1 July to the level that it is supposed to be in force only in 2010 and proposed by this government on the basis of tax reforms. This would be a proper anti-inflation, anti-cyclical policy. Such a policy has not been presented today. Today's policy has been presented which opposes what Banka Slovenije has proposed, which is to reduce inflation, it would be necessary to limit expenditure to a maximum of 7-8 per cent if we anticipate 4 per cent growth in gross domestic product and if we want to have 3 per cent inflation. By the end of this year, inflation will, unfortunately, be approaching 10 percent. Today we are on two-thirds of this path with 6.5% inflation. Whether the way to solve this problem is to introduce Dragan's supplements will be judged by voters and voters this fall. We are opposed to the general part of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u199	Thank you. In your own name, what interest? Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u200	I propose a 20-minute recess to reconsider the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u201	I'll have the vote suspended in 20 minutes. Anyone want to explain on their own behalf? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the voice-explanatory phase. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 7:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u202	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. I give the floor to Mr Žnidarsic to explain the interruption. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After the consultation, our Group of Members decided to vote as we have already announced at the beginning of the debate, which means that all four of us will support the general part of the budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u204	Thank you. So we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Does anyone want to discuss this before we go to individual amendments? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28.5.2008. In the debate I will announce or so announce: the user of the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the sub-programme Support to the Nationalities Communities, we have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 42. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Finance, the sub-programme of State Liabilities to STIZ. We have one amendment from the Social Democrats' Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 42. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a member of the Police, a sub-programme of Traffic Security, and we have an amendment from the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. A debate? [[She's not here.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 42. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user - the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, subprogramme: Operation of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. We have an amendment from the SD Group. A debate? She's not here. We're moving to the vote. We vote, the vote is on. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 42. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user - Ministry of Economy. Subprogramme: Restructuring of enterprises. We have two amendments; no, just one. Amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. A debate? She's not here. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 43. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme: Competitiveness-enhancing programmes. Amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. A debate? She's not here. We're moving to the vote. We vote, the vote is on. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 42. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user - Republic of Slovenia Inspectorate for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Subprogramme: Quality and control. Amendment of the Zares Group. A debate? Here you go, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u205	Thanks for the debate. I'm already going to say in advance that this amendment is the only thing I'm going to do, given my colleagues' tiredness. But something. First, I would like to commend the Government for finally obtaining an explanation of the negative position by the Government to the amendment. This is progress according to the past. However, one problem is that the texts are such that they are contradictory and even indirectly attach to the amendment proposal and, of course, they have to conclude that they reject it. I therefore expect the next stage in the quality of the reasons for these rejection positions to be consistent, and the amendment is, of course, intended - what is also recognised in the explanatory statement - to be the minimum amount of EUR 25 000 to cover the costs, very simplistic, of these analyses in relation to the deaths of bees or poisons. And of course these analyses or these seem to be the consequences of too much content in the earth, and so you admit it in the explanation, and then you just have to wrap it up and say no. That says a lot of things, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Yesterday we discussed these problems on the Committee on Agriculture, together with the Committee on Environment and Space, and received satisfactory answers from the competent services in the Republic of Slovenia. Monitoring is carried out, analysis in this area is sufficient. Also the causes of the fall, I will call it the fall of bees, because bees call bees falling, are found, it is only noted that it is possible that such insecticides, which are supposed to cause these bees to fall, in the future in the Republic of Slovenia, are completely banned. Thus, on this item, it is not necessary to increase the financial resources at this time for such analyses because they are sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u208	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Trophynik, he called again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u209	I'm sorry to cancel, but not to replicate the content or Mr. Sok, but I'd like to point out something. What you found yesterday is, of course, questionable, because the institutions that are supposed to oversee this control by even issuing regulations on the same chemical resources that are now to be banned due to the negative impact on bees, and these loving bees are the victim. Two years ago, documented, on the narrowest lanes of water protection, this was allowed to be used in the protection of maize and they were all, from inspectorate to phytosanitary administration, to all warnings of the deaf. People have not yet fallen, as bees have been said to fall. But when people fall next to bees, it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Sok. Continue the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Since my fellow Member is mixing two things, obviously; one is analysis, of course, I say once again that there is enough money for analyses to make these analyses. Another is whether we will use these funds and in which areas we will use them or in which areas we will not use them. So, not to mix it up, colleague Trofenik, pears and apples, because this is about two completely different matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u212	I wouldn't have called if someone hadn't named me and insulted me with pears and apples. In the narrowest water protection zone, use is permitted, explicitly written on the decision by the phytosanitary administration, inspection services have not responded - if you want to, pay the cost of analysis, about everything there are documents. I therefore doubt that there is sufficient resources for soil analysis - as a result, this has been submitted. And not fool around with such irresponsible ones. If bees fall, it's bad if some animals die, but it's even worse when people don't even know what the consequences are because of such irresponsible use and almost no prevention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u213	Dear colleague, the Slovenian proverb says, "Smart give up." Would you like a word, Mr. Sok? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. We're moving to the vote. [[The ad in the hall.]] There's no replica, Mr. Trophynik, no one's been talking to you. No, there's no replica. I didn't say anything about you. Well, look, you'll have a chance to explain your voice. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Who wants it? Mr. Trofenik, you're the only one with your hand up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u214	I'm afraid it's your fault. [[...]] I won't let you insult me with a fool in the National Assembly. And it would be good to listen to your fellow Member, a leader who, in a similar situation, had previously protested the culture and comments of the chairman or chairmen of the meeting. The fact that you think I'm a fool in such a serious discussion, and you're a doctor, I just don't allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u215	Well, Mr. Trophynik, thanks anyway. More explanation for the voice in his own name? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u216	This debate has highlighted the fundamental problem we have when we are discussing amendments. We discussed this amendment on the Committee on Finance. The arguments of bee-fallers have gone in the direction that additional funds are needed, including the Government explains in its explanation, but the problem is the position of the Government - the Government of the amendment does not support. However, I do not know why the Government has decided to do so, but to say that there is no need to implement additional measures to prevent the problems of bee plagues, but I do not think that is correct. Therefore, it would be good for members of the coalition to think here on the basis of your beekeeping or other knowledge and to do what is minimum to provide additional resources for the implementation of preventive measures. But the problem is, we probably agree with everyone in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u217	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 11, for 38. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user - Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Subprogramme Management of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. We have an amendment from the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? I see one hand. Here you go. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Chairman. With this amendment, it will be difficult for her to endure the explanation that we have heard before. The amendment provides additional means to inform the public and users about the management of plant protection products. The fact is that these matters, which are now happening to us, are due to the misuse of these funds. And I don't know who, after yesterday's debate, after the obvious operations are successful and the bees die a day, to vote against us spending 15,000 euros on a promotion action to help people come to their senses - Milenko, are you applying for a debate? I think that's the little thing that's worth supporting. It's an apolitical matter. What is happening to us is that the central news is daily in the media, that there has been some kind of bee poisoning and that the profession acknowledges that this is happening because of the misuse of these funds, and we are not prepared to spend 15,000 euros on awareness-raising for the campaign. I'm sorry, if we're going to be against the majority, then there's something wrong with us. I'll be happy to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u219	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 52 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 36. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, on the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We have three amendments. First, I'm putting all three amendments to the debate. We will vote on each and every one. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening an application for a debate because there were more deadlines. Mr. Mogue, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dante had a comedy in his work of La Divina that hell was written: "Lasciate fire the Speranza voi che êentere; - Let go of every hope you enter." And I know that my argument about supporting the third amendment will probably not withstand this pressure, but I am speaking mainly for the sake, once again, that the Minister of Transport will also hear me. We had a similar amendment when we discussed the budget that we are supplementing today. It is a road near Viltuš, it is a small settlement between Maribor and Sevnica near Drava and it is such that it leads the road along the clan down to one bridge where it crosses the stream and then goes up again. This bridge is in extremely poor condition, almost no longer a road, the standards of today's set for walking. And I had warned at the time that it would not be far off when it would be precisely because of the two clans and because of the poor condition on that road that a child would be transported there. And I don't want to abuse you, but I'm talking because there's also kids going to school. Now, it didn't happen, but the next thing that happened was a car accident, one car slipped and one part of the fence was already carried away. The fence was completely broken and it's gone. So maybe they'll fix this fence a little bit, but this problem to keep the road safe, even for those who cross that stream, this bridge should be fully restored. This is also the third amendment. I don't think he'll get any support from you, but the real thing is, I'll back him up. I say this mainly because the minister who is responsible for the roads would be the idea of what we're talking about here. Because when I spoke, I promised that if the bridge wasn't fixed, that I would be the first to initiate an interpellation against him. A similar situation is repeated because it does not react like that situation, then near Maribor there when they hit the one on the railway tracks and was not the first victim. Then it could have all worked out overnight. I think it would be good for the minister or at least you, from the government that you are here to warn him, but if you don't vote on this amendment, tell him to make this bridge safe for those who will go through it for God's sake.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u222	I don't know if I can describe in any more detail the situation that is really on this road that this amendment is talking about. The fact is that the amendment is proposed because we believe that 100,000 euros in this year, in this budget, cannot and cannot be a problem of security in the state budget. And the minister, if you listen to directions and you listen to warnings about how dangerous this part of this road, where there is really a fence of everything else, just a fence not but a rusty remnant of a fence in which there is a "pass" such that with every little lead there is actually a danger that there will be water stalling, there will be a spill over the road in which every slip of the car is really dangerous, that the car will land somewhere else than on the road. These are the arguments and reasons why the coalition should therefore simply understand that this is a warning which, if not taken into account, can have serious consequences for those responsible. And, Minister, I think I could manage and manage the matter if, of course, I had the support of the Government at this plenary session. That's why I'm also calling for this amendment to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u224	19.6 million euros is the number that the Ministry of Transport loses by redistributing funds, of which 7 million euros are taken from the State Road in one way or another. Go take a look at some state roads in Gorenjska after the September 2007 storm, all of which significantly improve traffic safety. I think we're playing with our lives in these decisions, too. That is why I will support this amendment to at least partially limit and correct the matter as well as the next two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u225	Thank you. More debate? Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the DeSUS Group, we will establish a temporary LDS - DeSUS link and we will support it. Unfortunately, however, there will be no success, since it is with us, we are, with the proposaler, only eight of us. The applicants are missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, there's still a debate. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with colleagues! That this vote on this amendment will not fail, if you see how good the opposition is, what you would do. Really, there's only one such specimen, and the coalition doesn't understand it! Colleagues and colleagues, there are many cases like this in the country. And dear colleagues and colleagues, such cases and such small matters or small matters will no longer be discussed at national level when we have the provinces. Such problems will be solved with the provinces. Write down "mea maxima culpa" because you were against the provinces! Now you have a chance to fix it. Well, that's why I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u229	Thank you. I see who else wants to discuss everything, please? [[...]] I can see two hands. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u230	Thank you. For the first time in years, I'm going to support the road amendments because I've never supported them. But why? For the first time is the reason here, I have said this before today: illogically and irresponsibly, the rebalance reduces funds both for road maintenance and for railways. If we let that military problem go, I won't get involved. Although at the expense of the larger fines that we will all pay together if we break the rules, the Government plans a good 9 million additional costs. The logic would be that this would be an extra road safety issue. First. The second is, of course, a questionable argument that someone before me reasoned that they would not vote because these roads, if they were regions, would be regional. Where does it say that? In all the terrible proposal on the transfer of jurisdiction it was not possible or you did not want to, the most elementary map with written roads that belonged, or the inscription, to create a list. More! Nor did the direction of the Road Directorate know which roads were supposed to go to regional level. Therefore, the argument that there would be no such problems, of course, from the vine, is that I will exceptionally, for the first time in this house, support the amendment on roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u232	I applied for the floor because I think that because of the magnetogram and the public it is necessary to provide an explanation of how the applicant is doing. Mr Germich is the proposer. Mr Germič is also in one group of other Members, where, you know, he participates in the tennis championship of parliamentarians. That's the only reason Mr. Germich isn't here. However, that the consequences of the absence may be very different, Mr Rezman is the most visual representation. When he was at a meeting of a committee that decided on the provinces, he was not there and that is why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u233	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u234	This committee went through the procedure [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u235	Friday, it's not a topic about [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u236	Yes, I am simply explaining the absence and consequences - if I could be absent from such a meeting of the National Assembly, it was and allowed for a conclusion. And we have consequences, Mr Pukšič is mouthing up and talking about the provinces again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u237	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting on a real amendment. There are 55 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] Amendment number 1 is not accepted. We move to the vote on amendment number two. We vote, the vote is on. There are 56 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 40. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number three. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will support the amendment of your esteemed colleague Germich Ljubo. He supported because we heard very good words, even when we discussed the highway programme, by government Members, that something would have to be done in the area of highway construction. I'll say, the area where money is taken to build a highway in Selnica ob Mura is the area where we can take it. It won't be a big deal if we take it there. But it will be very good if we take this road to Selnica near Mura or make sure that the road is made. And do not then be full of words, colleague Pukšič, as when we wanted in Maribor, I will say, one bypass which has a great impact on road traffic congestion and my fellow Member, Mr Sašo Pec, proposed an amendment and there was no listening. However, when we discussed the law or plan for the implementation of state roads, you were full of mouths to support it. Today, show by your actions that you are for real! You have that option. So far you haven't taken advantage of this option - but now you have a Sevnica next to Mura! So let's give it a try. It doesn't matter which congregation. Elections are held in all congregations. There, too, you will need a voice, a road, even if it is not Bistrica, Konjica, Destructor, or any other congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u239	Thank you. I would ask you to stick to the procedure, now is an explanation of vote, no discussion, Mr Zagorac. It's too bad you didn't report in the debate phase. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the third amendment. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the user of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the sub-programme for the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values. We have one amendment, namely the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment myself. I thought it was an explanation for the voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u243	Then we move on to the vote. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Very fast. I will not support this amendment alone. However, I will not give my support solely from one point of view: because I find it extremely incorrect that the National Assembly has been sitting since 9 a.m., we are in the vote, and only one representative of the Ambassador of the Zares Group is by the motioners. I know that, regardless of my vote - up or down, the amendment will not play any role, but it seems at least right for all the candidates present to be present in the vote if they follow the objective that the amendment pursues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u245	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 43. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, namely the sub-programme Social Protection for the materially disadvantaged. We have two amendments. We are discussing both, and we will vote on each and every one. Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm going to ask you again to support this amendment. It is true, however, that today, on the part of the President of the Government, as well as the Minister, we have heard - the Minister of Finance is the only minister present, who, at least with the presence of the Government, is trying to show how much he cares about this public financial document, which is called the budget rebalancing - in short, we have heard that, at the rate of poverty, our country should be placed at the very top of those countries where it is not possible to talk about poverty. But reality shows a different picture. And this picture is that more than 200,000 people in our country are linked to benefits that do not allow social security. And it's not just the pensioners, it's that group of people you're going to give them the jewelry supplement. These are also those people who receive only pension compensation, which does not even amount to EUR 200 per month. They are also people, and they are not lazy people who receive financial social assistance because they are unemployed because they are among them who, because of age or other circumstances, cannot get a job. These are not lazy, respected colleagues and colleagues from the largest government party SDS! These people are so many and so many thousands, and among them are single mothers who, due to low incomes, cannot meet their children’s basic needs. And that the Minister of Finance will come to the National Assembly with a budget rebalance for 2008 and will take up the item under the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is called Social Protection of the Materially Hazardous! Dear colleagues, this is a disgrace. I hope you don't unwittingly press the "against" button when you vote on the amendment. In the Lip Group, we are returning some of these funds to this item because we are confident that the financial social assistance, which amounts to 200 euros a month, does not provide social security. In this area, Slovenia cannot be compared with Denmark, Sweden, Germany, because there are significantly higher financial social assistance. It is true that wages are also significantly higher, but this is the next problem we wanted to point out. 399, as much as the minimum net salary is, there is no salary that could be proud of our country. With this, despite the great economic growth, unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues cannot and must not boast. As has already been said, in the Lipa Group we are returning part of the financial resources to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs item Social protection materially threatened because we are convinced that it is necessary if the country can, and I believe that, at the expense of large spending for, I will say, we can jump to the aid of this great fat of people who unfortunately cannot help ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u247	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, then we're going to make a decision. Explanation of voice. Does anyone want to do it on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. Then in your own name. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that we are taking, and this has also been made clear, €36 million to the Ministry of Defence, we are predicting three million euros for people in social distress in this amendment. I do not hope to say that in Vidm near Ptuj they are lazy at home, that in Maribor they are lazy at home, that in Ljubljana they are lazy at home, that they are lazy at home in Koper. One of the members of the government's coalition allowed this. If you call them sloths, it's just, I'll say, these are your eyes, how you look at people who are suffering under the laws that this government and this government coalition have adopted. Here we give the opportunity to return the dignity of this country to all of these, called Lenuhom. And I believe that you will all be happy to support these three million euros if we take the 36 million we are taking. Last but not least, I'll say, the Secretary of Defense said that this money is also for newborns in this country. We can also find them in this amendment. If you reject your own minister, if you reject your own wishes, if you reject your own desire for support, in the slogans, "Lenuchs", as you call them in the government coalition - I say, people are not to blame themselves - you are to be ashamed! That is why I believe you will be pleased to support the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I myself will support this amendment, although I am aware that the proposal to take money from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army is an additional obligation of the Ministry of Defence for other purposes. And I am aware that our Minister will have a difficult job defending the reduction of his budget in Brussels, but three million in 36 is not so much that we can't do that. On the other hand, it is the purpose of a nature worthy of support. And here the victim is another three million in the area of defence far smaller than the need to cover and alleviate poverty in another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u251	Thank you. Squire Tavsh, please. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u252	Thank you very much again. I will also support the proposed amendment, because I wanted to - but I am aware that you did not want to hear me, even though some of you tried to listen - with numbers to show that the situation in our country is not pink. About an hour ago, I was among the people who had warned of the unacceptable mockery of the government, which is violating financial resources in the social field, violating justice. And a few days ago, we discussed in Parliament a proposal under which Member Znidaršič was first signed to remedy the injustice caused by the Government for saving in the field of transfers. You didn't have a hearing at the time. Today we have the opportunity to return only EUR 3 million of funding to the Social Protection item of the materially threatened. This is also the quota of financial resources when people come knocking on the social work centre, and they say they are asking for one-off cash social assistance because they cannot simply buy the most pressing necessities of life anymore. But the government on this item is squandering funds for 7 million euros. And when we suggested that these funds should be taken on the line of the Slovenian Army General Staff, the government said - no, because it is about co-financing joint projects within the EU and NATO. Tell me, what is the priority of this government - domestic social, domestic people or the European Union and NATO? I will undoubtedly support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u253	Thank you. We are voting on amendment number one. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 14, for 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to a decision. Do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u254	Thank you, President. Member Rezman has brought to me a copy of the vote from this meeting of the National Assembly, which I mentioned earlier, on the establishment of the provinces. So, the first part of my claim that he was missing at the parental board meeting, which allowed him to go forward with the law, is true. The second part of my claim that he was at a meeting of the National Assembly was not true and, therefore, I apologize, were the other three members of the DeSUS. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u255	Well, it's nice to apologize, but it's not a procedural matter and it's an abuse of the rules of procedure. We're making a decision. The vote on amendment number 2 shall take place. There are 53 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 40. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to a subroutine for disabled people, where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme providing social inclusion, we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 39. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Receipts and the rights of the unemployed, where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme creating new jobs and increasing the adaptability of businesses where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u256	Thank you. Since we don't have much time, I haven't heard from the previous amendments. However, it has been possible to see how the Social Democrats are thinking about the functioning of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, how more resources should be provided. And it is precisely the reference to drawing on the European Social Fund's resources that has prepared the Social Democrats to propose an increase of €4 million for these purposes in order to create new jobs, because we believe that the economic growth forecasted in 2008 will require something to be done to create new jobs. As it is said, if we looked at all these amendments, we would see what active employment policy means, what it means to cut funds on those programmes that are essential for people who are facing social threats, and it is all like a wall-to-wall bob, and we are giving funds for the promotion of Slovenia in an election year because we know where this is going. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I feel Slovenia, you really don't have to advertise anymore. [[...]] The presidency will also expire, and the second half of the year is an electoral year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u257	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 41. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Health, where we have a sub-programme of Health Protection and Strengthening Programmes, Reducing Health Differences and Research and we have an amendment here. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 42. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme Editing and Monitoring the Health System, where we have three amendments. We're discussing all three of them. We vote on each and every one. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gulic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u258	In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also wanted to help the Government and coalition in some way with this amendment. In fact, the coalition contract provided for and provided for a suitable solution for insurers to pay or supplement premiums for supplementary health insurance for certain categories of insured persons. Thus, according to the invoice issued by health service providers, payments are actually paid in some way indirectly by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. He would then collect the necessary information and submit a refund at the end of the year to the Ministry of Health, which would then submit it to the Minister of Finance for settlement. The increase in these funds is proposed under the heading Health Care for the socially disadvantaged. This is said to be the case for those who have already been placed at the edge of society in some way, and then, by any reduction of rights, we are pushing them further to the brink. After these initial calculations, it is estimated to be 64 thousand insurers. The number is really very large, but I don't think it would be such a big burden, because the extras would be paid according to the actual use of health services. Isn't that right, Minister? I must say, of course, there was no response. In explanation of this rebalance, the government has written down, I will say, an incomprehensible or very unclear matter: the reason for the reduction of the funds on this item is the savings on the sub-programme and the agreement to delete from the proposal the articles setting out the allowances for socially disadvantaged insurers, the payments to the full value of the health services and the payments, second to fifth paragraph of Article 23 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Well, we want people who are already at risk, at least this work, not to be pushed further to the brink of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u259	Thank you. Anyone else? Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Because it is a debate, Minister, I ask you for an answer to join the debate. I ask: Will you abolish supplementary health insurance for socially disadvantaged people? There are not so many requests and initiatives, concrete ones, that have come to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that the Ministry of Finance is also aware of these requests. People who receive 300 euros of monthly income pay income under the new income legislation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the country, about 30, 40 euros and each month, in addition to a tax of around 25 euros, 22 euros of supplementary health insurance. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Secretary wants a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The answer to the question is that this matter is not yet a final decision in the analyses, in the professional services as well as in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u263	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u264	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but the answers should only contain a lot more than that. I ask you to answer the very clear question raised by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u265	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Pece? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u266	Dear Members and Members! To be honest, I don't think the National Assembly deserves the answer that the minister just gave. Therefore, on behalf of the Lipa Group, I predict that if the Minister does not provide an answer that affects not only those to whom the amendment is intended, we are predicting an obstruction to the continuation of the point under consideration. Mr Minister, at least so many for you: you are not yourself, you are a minister for this country, the Republic of Slovenia, so behave accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u267	Mr Pece, the debate is already concluded on this subroutine. [[Ad in the background.]] No, but we haven't voted yet. You can still suggest obstruction. You want to predict obstruction? So, the explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, please raise your hands so we don't report any of you? [[...]] Mrs Žgajner Tavš, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that I am truly disappointed, Minister Bajuk, at what you are doing when you are trying to answer to the Members and Members of Parliament who are asking you to do so. I didn't get your specific answer on the board either. But, look, you today, with the budget rebalancing, are taking all the financial resources, some kind of reservation that is already provided in the budget for this purpose, so that people who are socially and materially at risk are entitled by the State to pay them the amount for supplementary health insurance. I know that you too, Minister, know that the person who has 300 euros of monthly income inflows is, in addition to the above mentioned taxes that I have mentioned, a charge to the country, 22 euros of supplementary health insurance is a very heavy burden. Since this burden cannot be met, people simply no longer have an additional health insurance. And these people are more than a month old. Most of these people are retired. These people simply no longer have the right to apply health services free of charge, except for what goes out of compulsory health insurance. But that, I believe, you know what it means to know what medical care is, and then it ends slowly. Please do not take any financial resources on the item that talks about paying supplementary health insurance for socially, materially disadvantaged people. These people are too many, and unfortunately this is known negatively in their medical condition and consequently, if you want, even in the financial state of the whole country. In the Lipa Group, we will support the amendment we have drafted, although it is identical to the amendment of the two other opposition groups. These are the facts that we have also pointed out to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u269	Thank you. Anyone else in their own name? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me one observation. Dear Mr. Secretary! I wish you a pleasant stay because you are the only one representing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this Parliament when we are talking about such an act as the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So the act concerning all citizens and citizens of this country. On an act to be filled out by all citizens and citizens of this country. And you're the only one who's taken time off except, in Styria's nicknames, and you're with us today. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u271	and how you will vote [[....]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u272	As for the amendment, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u273	Mr. Zagorac [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u274	Mr President, I must say that I will be happy to support him. [[...]] And all those who support this amendment will follow what you are, Mr. Minister, and you claim that it is happening in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that the balance of the budget is social policy. With this amendment, we do nothing but do it or give it where you, who say you did not take certain social transfers, are given back. I believe she's a woman, because to the other person during the National Assembly meeting when it comes to budget rebalancing, I wouldn't dare to raise, and you can also greet her on our behalf, but I'll tell you one thing that you're doing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u275	Mr. Zagorac, please, not the controversy, but the explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u276	Once again, the reason for this amendment to be supported is more than enough. Your mouth was full of social, social, poor people who needed to be given who needed to be taken. Now is your chance to prove your words by action. If these acts aren't like that, then you're worth it. Do you know how much? [[...]] You'll see September!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u277	Thank you. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 37. (For the vote was 14.)(against 37.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to amendment decision number two. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Mrs Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You have another option. Your first amendment was a smooth rejection. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] You have one more chance. I don't think a smile, a hand to the heart is right at this point. Something else would be justified, but not a smile. About €4 million, as much as is already provided in the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, today you are taking, deleting the budget with a rebalancing budget; despite promises, despite efforts - people need health care! If they cannot provide health care on their own due to low financial resources, it is the duty of the State to do so. The Constitution says we're a social state. If we already have the funds earmarked to help these people, why take the funds already provided from the budget. Poverty is on the rise. You've also heard warnings from the Alliance of Retired Associations. They ask that the government, within the framework of the law that was planned, on insurance or health care, help these people. In a month or two, we'll be making excuses, yes, because the government would have done it, but unfortunately there's no funding in the budget. Today we still have financial resources, maybe two, three minutes before the vote. Then there will be no more financial resources. Neither will the government's promise about how social it is. But I say, today I believe we're playing with the fate of a lot of people in our country. We don't give a shit because we're just pressing the pros and cons button. And I believe that we all have an additional health insurance system, because we can do it with our monthly income. People who have monthly incomes 10 times lower than members of the National Assembly cannot do that amount. We are returning funds to the item in the Lipa Group with this amendment. And by doing so, we allow the Government to draw up the promised law, to come with it to Parliament and to support it jointly. Please, let us support this amendment and allow this opportunity to make a real difference. I personally or on behalf of the Group of Members declare my support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u279	Explanation on its own behalf. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As my fellow Member, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, has said, I will also support this amendment. We're thinking a little differently. Mr. Minister, this country has created an excess in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under your authority, under your leadership of the Ministry of Finance. That's what you say. This surplus, according to you, is real. It's actually a surplus. Slovenia is in your opinion, I will not let people live, what people think about you, what people think about this country, what people think about how to spend a month. I'll just go down on your word. A rich country. One of the rare countries of the European Union that has surpluses in the state budget. And if we have a surplus, why don't you tell me - why don't we use it for those who need it?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u281	Mr. Zagorac, you're asking questions again and you're polarizing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u282	Mr President, that was a rhetorical question that was not required to be answered. Tell me why we don't use it for those who need it. Where are we gonna put this surplus? In your pocket? Mr. Janša in his pocket? Let's give it to the people, for God's sake! And the ones you smile at when you have a second chance when I look at you, not the other one, you need a third option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u283	Mr. Zagorac, next time I'll take your word. Mr. Peche. Please, in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u284	Thank you very much. The cost of supplementary health insurance is the same for all citizens, all citizens. So regardless of monthly income, high pension, high personal income, this amount is the same. Of course, it is not for us, Members and Members, to pay this amount to the Minister, the Secretary of State. But many in this society face this problem and the amendment, as proposed by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, solves the above-mentioned matter in the context of public finances. 50,000 citizens and citizens. Three million euros. But given that I see that not the words of a colleague, not the words of a colleague do not depend, I ask you, Mr President, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to order a 20-minute recess before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr. Žnidaršič, an explanation in your own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment, even though today we have heard criticism from Members of the Lipa. And I must say that the Ministry of Defence has already sacrificed a lot of its budgetary resources to cover certain budgetary needs, which is why it is actually an insult to us if the Ministry of Defence is attacked to infinity. And we can't get everything out there just to meet the rest of our needs. At the same time, the question was raised why the budget surplus does not cover, for example, one part of the social sector, but here is a proposal for general staff or a reduction of budgetary resources under the Slovenian Armed Forces heading. And these are contradictions that do not belong to the explanation or to the explanation of their vote. The purpose is good, and I will therefore support this, although I believe that our ministry has helped to properly shape this budgetary balance and that the re-requirements for the reduction of the funds there are unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u287	Thank you. I conclude my explanation of vote. I'm adjourning the session, which will be resumed 12 minutes from now. That's what they say, 21.12.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u288	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. We're moving on to the session. I give the floor to Mrs Žgajner Tavš to explain the interruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that you have not understood the 20-minute break we requested from the Lipa Group as a delay in today's meeting. I hope that you have understood this as an opportunity to reconsider the proposed amendment of the Lip Group. And a very brief explanation, because I believe that I am very concrete and very distinct, at least twice, and I was also helped by my fellow Members, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sasha. In the 2008 budget, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provided financial resources for the social or health care of socially disadvantaged persons - for supplementary health insurance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is taking these funds with today's budget rebalancing. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in explanation, says: "The funds on the sub-programme are reduced under the heading Health Care of the Socially Hazardous, due to the amendment of legislation on the basis of the agreement to be made from the proposal of the novel" - by the way, the wrong novelties are listed - "the articles setting out the charges for socially disadvantaged insured persons.", which means, in other words, that since this law will not be available, the State's supplementary health insurance for the social risk will not be necessary, the financial resources on this sub-programme will also be unnecessary. However, I am asking myself, or I am still asking myself, but I believe that it is very justified - whether the additional financial means or financial means for supplementary health insurance for socially and materially disadvantaged people in our country are not really necessary? So much responsibility, if you want, and moral responsibility on the part of our country, this Parliament should show that it supports the amendment of the Lip Group - the first you did not support - to support it and give it the opportunity to keep in the budget the financial resources provided so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can, by means of a legislative proposal, step up to those who are most at risk in our country and pay them 22 Euros of supplementary health insurance. I can make that amount, but I believe that someone who has 10 times less monthly income than I do can't do that amount. And we have to help these people at the state level. I ask you to support this amendment. If the amendment does not receive support, please, Mr President, to take these words into account also as a statement of obstruction after the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u290	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Gulic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u291	Dear Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in view of the attitude towards our amendment, we do not expect anything to be different to the proposal of the Lip Group, because it did not seem to the Minister, when I asked him, to answer, not just worth answering, nor to nod, because it would only be time to nod or nod on that question, because you think it is more important to answer rhetorical questions than rights, so we are predicting obstruction until the end of this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u292	Thank you. Therefore, the LDS Group will obstruct the 1st item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. I'm sorry, but they predicted it, and they did. We're voting on the amendment. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 35. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number 3 of the same sub-programme. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 42. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Education and Sport, a sub-programme for adult education, we have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Trofenik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The amendment has been tabled at the request of the Union of Labour Universities and concerns the outstanding obligations of the Ministry to the programmes or projects granted to them. Once again, I thank the Government for an extensive response, which is normally made up of two parts. In the second paragraph of this reply, which is very interesting, even the Ministry admits its share of the blame, and then tries to go out in some way with some mortal salad. However, I must say that this does not correspond to the actual state of affairs, because it is not those things which could possibly be missed by the working universities, which did not meet the terms of the tender and so on, that it is the debt that these establishments have with the document to grant them the funds. This is drawn from the previous year and it would be very interesting to look at the final state account in detail when it will be on the agenda to see if these obligations are even recorded in the final account. However, the second part of the answer is very interesting that these 819 thousand euros would prevent the acquisition of a transport aircraft, reconnaissance vehicles, the upgrade of helicopters, not to mention all of that. Very interesting! When it comes to education, which is worth one of those four-wheelers, not an eight-wheeler, or two, to be more modest, it threatens this entire development of the army, but if the minister responsible, as the party president, shares candy and promises all over our beloved country and considers it his own feud and his colleagues speak about our ministry - I think it is the Slovenian Ministry, that this is not from any party, that it is our army, that it is not an army of any political party and so on - and then the criteria are different; although all these arguments are listed, of course, some disappointment, those in the ministry, that they have been taken by the rebalancing of these great millions, who are actually preventing or delaying procurement. It is said that I will normally support the amendment, no matter how it is, that hope that it would be, because I think it is a serious problem and that it is solely a matter of responsibility on the part of the State, and for the money for which it has given the documents to pay it, it is said at home that it has forgotten about it. Only those who do not know the content and method of financing of working universities who do not have any resources at their disposal can make excuses that they can exist. Since the programmes are complete, the costs are normally incurred and must be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u294	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I truly believed and hoped that you would all be able to understand the words of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who predicted obstruction, in the event that the amendment would not be voted on. Given that you have not mentioned the magnetic record as chairman of this, I now sincerely hope that for all things I am clearly predicting the obstruction of continuation on behalf of the Lip Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u296	Thank you. As you have also heard, the Parliamentary Lipa predicts obstruction at point 1 of the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. Mr. Squeakle, please. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u297	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I declare obstruction until the end of agenda item 1 for the following reasons. All the reasons of the Government regarding the denial of the purpose of the amendments are, to put it mildly, incorrect. The coalition's vote is united. But, gentlemen, you'll have to do your best to have a quorum. Member of the Group of Social Democrats in voting, with amendments that have a significant impact on correcting certain things, whether it is the situation of pensioners, health care or this story of the unpaid €819,000 account. I have a letter from a 34-year-old who's already gone to school. It was promised and issued to him in September last year. He's supposed to finish his education in March this year. He finished it - he still has no resources because the proper ministry states that there have been problems. Therefore, the problems of non-supplying European funds need to be addressed through an integrated budget. You can't do this without extra funds. To say that this will be done by the Minister of Finance himself, however, is inconsistent with public finances legislation. Because of such a way, for the first time, of government positioning towards amendments and voting, and of course of the fact that the coalition should vote itself, the Social Democrats' Group predicts obstruction to the end of this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u298	Thank you. We have heard that the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats is leaving the Chamber and obstructing the agenda as follows: this is the 2008 proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to discuss the Sub-programme for Adult Education and the amendment. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 39. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user Ministry of Culture, a sub-programme of Art programs where we have one amendment. Mr. Kokalj, please, the debate is under way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u299	It is an amendment that would support the project of performing the first preserved drama text in the Slovenian language, which, according to the monuments and texts of Slovenian Protestants, represents the third most important stage of Slovenian speaking art. In such a form, after about 250 years he was portrayed as a bishop's solitaire in 1999 and 2000, or indeed without State aid. This is the largest outdoor theatre performance in the Republic of Slovenia. And given that the project was planned for implementation in 2009 and that preparations had already begun, that we had been together with the Minister at the presentation itself and that the Minister had also promised to support this project at the presentation itself, I expected that this content would be covered in the budget balance, as some other content were covered. We know that the celebration of the 500-year-old Trubar was strongly supported this year, and the rehabilitation of the Franje hospital as well as some kind of cultural monument was introduced into the balance. So when I realized that this was not in the balance sheet, I was trying to resolve this situation in some way, from the Ministry's response, where he wrote that the funds from this item were already reserved for activities or already distributed on the basis of public calls, I would certainly expect at least a detailed explanation, for which activities are more important than a project for which we should take part in the year of intercultural dialogue. But unfortunately, I have to say that I am not satisfied with this answer and that is why I have proposed an amendment. And I appeal to the Colleges of Members to support the cultural heritage and so important matters that go back almost 300 years, this amendment is supported. It is only about six of the estimated funds and it is a project where about one thousand amateur viewers participate with the help of a professional team and preparations have already begun and some costs are also associated with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u300	Thank you. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. I'm also predicting obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u302	Mr. Trofenik, do you have the authority of the leader of the parliamentary groups? For according to the Rules of Procedure, only the Head of the Parliamentary Group may order or his Deputy may order obstruction. However, the National Assembly or Parliament tolerates this, if at least there is a direct leader of the parliamentary group present, because this is a sign that the leader of the parliamentary group agrees with such obstruction. In all three cases, the leader of the parliamentary group was present and I ask that you bring the mandate first.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u303	Thank you for teaching me, though I know that. I'll make my own decision, and you'll count it anyway. That's what I'm telling you, and thank you. [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u304	This is not an obstruction, but a voluntary departure from the Chamber, which, of course, has a right. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment in the Art Program subroutine? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 45 Members are present. I guess we're not concluding. We will therefore re-vote. We're voting. 43 Members and Members are present. I'm adjourning the session, which will be resumed at 9:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u305	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to a third vote. Mr. Sok, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u306	Just for a little while. Mr President, I suggest you send those who obstruct from the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u307	I don't think we can do that. They can watch us here or behind the screen, whatever. This is the third time we've voted on the amendment. We're still inconclusive. 45 Members and Members are present. The third vote also failed, so I am putting an end to the point which we will continue tomorrow after the end of the regular session. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. I invite all Members and Members of Parliament who have obstructed themselves if they wish to join us [[...]] The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to give you a brief introduction to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. This does not bring significant changes, but changes only to the extent necessary to adapt the changes in the budget provided for in the balance sheet. The law provides for the following amendments or additions. The amendment or addition to Article 7 is necessary for the implementation of transfers to beneficiaries to whom the resident may allocate 0.5% of the income. The provision itself does not provide for these payments in material terms, as the basis for payment is already the Income Act and the second paragraph of this Article authorises the Government to open new items to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia during the year and on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. As a gross principle has been established in our country, all income from income is paid into the country's integrated budget. Consequently, in the new items of the Tax Administration for the purpose of payment to beneficiaries of the right of expenditure, the allocation of funds from the current budget reserve shall be ensured. Such arrangements are foreseen only in 2008 for the payment of income for 2007, and in the coming years, spending rights will be guaranteed in the preparation of the budget itself. Supplement to Article 12 of the Act is necessary to maintain equity and capital power in New Credit Bank Maribor, solely for the purpose of ensuring bank organic growth by the end of 2011, and for the development of [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] retail banking in connection with the Post Bank of Slovenia d.d. [[...]] This will also ensure the Bank's capital adequacy in accordance with the requirements of the Bank of Slovenia. The additions to Articles 21 and 24 are more precisely or more clearly governed by existing substantive provisions, as different interpretations have been detected in practice in relation to these provisions. The proposed law also amends the overall projected level of government budget indebtedness. The reasons for reducing the required level of indebtedness are as follows: a reduction in the projected deficit or an increase in the surplus in the income and expenditure balance sheet, balance sheet A, totalling EUR 300 million; a reduction in the projected level of debt repayment in balance sheet C by EUR 198 million; and an increase in the use of funds in accounts by EUR 63 million. The projected increase in the country's capital investment, Balance B, for a good EUR 82 million, is increasing the deficit in Balance B, but despite the above, the overall volume of the proposed debt with the proposed balance sheet decreases by EUR 478 million. As I have already said in the introduction, the law is urgently needed in order to implement the amendments proposed by the budget rebalancing, so I ask you to break the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u309	Thank you. Procedural proposal. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u310	Mr. President. I find that the minister probably spoke in vain, because the Rules of Procedure could not proceed with the next item without finishing the previous one. For the assembly was not concluded in the third trial, and in such a case it is necessary to suspend the work. I think this is a good warning right now, and I would ask you to stop this meeting, or you would force us to leave the hall again, because you have done something that has not yet happened in this house. Even if the agenda is replaced, it is necessary to vote on it. This shall not happen more than twice during one sitting. I believe you have the will to complete the meeting. But the coalition did not gather the votes needed to make the right decision. The situation in the National Assembly should be taken into account and dissolved. From this point of view, I urge you to stop this and find a way to continue the item and then the meeting, otherwise it is a very grave violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And I hope that she will not be assisted by other Members. We're not going to.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u311	Mr. Skolcz, the agenda doesn't change in anything. I just broke point one, which we'll continue tomorrow. However, we will certainly not be able to go to the vote on Point 2 unless the first paragraph is adopted tomorrow, fully voted. It's also a procedural proposal. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u312	I would like to support what Mr Školč said for substantive reasons, then there will be others. But I'm asking you procedurally about your follow-up when you broke point one. You said this would continue after the work of the National Assembly was completed tomorrow. We're in an extraordinary session. And if we understand the Rules of Procedure very well, it is necessary to conclude an extraordinary session, not just to interrupt an extraordinary session, to jump to a regular session, to conclude a regular session, to jump back to the extraordinary. However, this particular problem is jumping to the 2nd item of the agenda, which, in my view, is closely linked to the 1st item of the agenda, cannot be voted at all. How should the Minister talk about something which is the substance of point 2 if it is not the wish of the coalition to confirm the content of point 1 which sets out the contents of point 2 first. You must be very careful. The vote at point 1 is opposite and, in my opinion, must be completed, but not in the way you have done. That's why it would be the only right thing to do. It's also 11 minutes to 10 minutes. In one of your instructions, you said that at ten o’clock in the evening, you would decide to stop and that we would probably continue this tomorrow morning at nine o’clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u313	Mr. Squeakle, I'll repeat it specifically for you. Point 1 has been interrupted and will continue tomorrow after the end of the regular session. We still have a regular session tomorrow. The regular session was suspended today due to an extraordinary session. Mr. Pece, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u314	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u315	No one has made a procedural proposal yet. It was just questions. Procedural motion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u316	My procedural proposal is that we stop the farce of interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to suspend the meeting at this point, given that the content was not made in connection with the 2008 rebalancing. The act before us today relates to the content of the 2008 balance. And as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself notes in the opening explanation of the ZIPRO, i.e. the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, this law must be adopted, dealt with, amended, interpreted after we have amended, adopted, interpreted, interpreted, or rebalanced the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia lists this in document 8.5.2008. Mr President, we all know that the debate in connection with the 2008 rebalancing has not been concluded; it has remained in the middle of the amendments. And from this title and from the point of view of the bad nine minutes, as far as the agreed time for the interruption is concerned, I propose, and this is my procedural proposal that we stop or not begin with the substantive debate of the groups before the said act now and here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u317	You have heard the procedural proposal to end Point 2 and not to proceed at this time and to suspend the meeting. This was a procedural proposal to suspend the second item and the meeting at this time. Does anyone want to define themselves? Which parliamentary group? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Pece has offered you a proposal that saves, I will say to some extent what you have done wrong. But you can't even stop the session if it's not final. You can't break the point if it's not a dot. And that's what you figured out. At this point, we expect the National Assembly to cease its work on the basis of the conclusion that the assembly was not concluded after the third vote. The Rules of Procedure, Mr President, tell you that you can interrupt the work of the National Assembly, but you cannot do it. There are, of course, different situations when you can do this. And from this point of view, it is necessary to suspend the work of the National Assembly at this point in time, because after the third vote it was concluded that the assembly was not concluded. You must inform the Head of the Commission of the mandate to take the appropriate action. Procedures are perfectly clear and precise. And we expect you to stop your work and there is no need to vote on it. For voting on something that is unequivocal would be a great abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u319	Thank you. Even on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, as many as there are. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u320	It is enough for us to clarify on behalf of the Group of Members, in accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, the position on the procedural proposal. The procedural proposal has been corrected, but it is not properly managed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia makes it very clear: "This law must be adopted immediately after the adoption of the 2008 budget rebalancing proposal." The coalition has failed to provide a quorum to vote on the last amendment or the last two amendments to that balance. Therefore, the balance sheet was not accepted. In fact, we do not even know whether there is a political will to give full support to the Government and to all of us to discuss substantively what the Minister has been saying by adopting an amendment or an unaccepted amendment with the harmonisation amendment, by voting on the budget. The minister here speaks as if the so-called recapitalisation of NKBM had already been adopted. But what if I told you what to do, and you decided that this rebalancing because it's pro-cyclical, you wouldn't support it? Then everything the Minister said is inappropriate. Therefore, it is only right to interrupt the work of the National Assembly and to continue at the end of the first item of the agenda. When it is, decide for yourself. It seems logical for us to conclude this extraordinary session, but of course, Mr President, you can - or I don't know, you will be advised by the professional services, but you will be offered something else. We certainly believe that the National Assembly in one day, despite the 20 hours of the debate announced, was so foreseen, so we say that it is a poorly organised work, it simply did not come to an end, because the coalition did not listen to the opposition's proposals, and the opposition has decided not to support you in providing a quorum. Responsibility, gentlemen, is yours, even for the recapitalisation of the NKBM, which is so badly needed. What kind of homage would it be if ten or more of you went on this or that business trip, do you imagine? NKBM does not have the appropriate capital then.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u321	Thank you. We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 38. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We are proceeding with the second point. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Mr. Pece, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am sure you know that ZIPRA cannot be dealt with before the adoption of the 2008 budget rebalancing. These are acts that follow each other as well as the letters in the alphabet, A and B. At the moment, if we go to the table of contents, when we have not discussed the content of the previous act, namely the 2008 budget rebalance, we will be in breach of the Rules of Procedure. I asked you earlier, Mr President, and as President, you have the opportunity to suspend the meeting 10 minutes before the agreed time. Because you and the National Assembly did not choose to respect the rules of procedure in order to respect the hierarchy or the pace of the acts, although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written us in the explanation of ZIPRA, what is the order. He explained clearly before me what the possible dilemma is, as regards the 2008 budget, and what the dilemma is as a consequence of the law on the implementation of the budget. It is not possible for the National Assembly, with all due respect, Mr President, to adopt a law on the implementation of the 2008 budget unless we have adopted a 2008 budget rebalancing! From this point of view, given that we have tried to interrupt and with amendments and with procedural proposals, we do not have any other option in the Lipa Group, but to announce the obstruction for this point at least for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u323	Thank you. Once again for you personally, Mr Pece, I will repeat that we certainly cannot take and decide on Point 2 without deciding first on Point 1. However, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that we must not interrupt point 1 and discuss point 2 and the vote will be tomorrow, as predicted. You've already had it, and you've already predicted obstruction at this point. We're at point two. Mr. Squeakle, please respect what you have promised to obstruct. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u324	Mr President, I think you are, in fact. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u325	First, he's got Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u326	First of all, I'd remind you that you said we were supposed to be working until 10:00. You've already forgotten that. Second, I would remind you that the assembly was unconscionable, but you did not find it as the president or the chairman had to. Thirdly, I would remind you that it is not possible to continue or that there is no basis in the Rules of Procedure for the termination of the item without a vote on it. You did it yourself. For the rules dictate that the points are treated one after the other. When one is finished, the other is treated. We have proposed in this session that the vote is final and not opposite. You turned it down. And a series of things are related to the course of this session, which you have either forgotten or you do not want to know at this time. Our Group of Members will not participate either in procedural or other manoeuvres that take place at a time when it should be established that the assembly is inconclusive. You don't want to find out. I don't know who can tell you that. You had a clear statement despite the assistance you received, that 45 votes were in the third attempt and that the work of the assembly should be suspended. You didn't do it. You've interrupted the point, we're against it, and I think you're doing a lot of damage to this process of ours, and you're certainly not doing any good to the budget. Therefore, I welcome you very much and wish you to continue to have a favourable breach of the rules of procedure and any other rules in the adoption of this assembly. At the same time, I would also like to thank all those colleagues who are so sensitive to a vote that was not properly done the other day, that they are present today, and that they are maintaining this debate in this house and the will of the President and the coalition. Good night!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u327	Dear colleagues, colleagues who are concerned about the procedure. On Tuesday we discussed the laws, no one checked the consonants, no one demanded a conclusion. On Wednesday we discussed laws, no one checks conclusions, discussions can run without a conclusion, even if two or three are in the hall. And the vote was finally on all matters. And this process could also proceed by voting on all points tomorrow night. However, we should respect the order of voting as we will. We will vote first on point 1, and if it is adopted, we will vote on point 2. And I don't want to talk about it anymore! Procedural, Mr. Squeakle, only in case you want obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u328	Mr President, no, it is procedural in relation to the procedure that we have been informed on a time-bound and orderly basis. First of all, with respect to your allegations. SD MPs did not predict obstruction [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u329	Mr. Squeakle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u330	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u331	This went to the vote and is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u332	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u333	has been adopted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u334	Let me finish. The SD Group did not announce obstruction at point 2, but we said we had a problem with the substantive debate. However, according to the footnote on page 2 of the timetable - "that the National Assembly will decide on the possible continuation of the meeting at 22. " [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u335	The National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u336	on possible follow-up [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u337	He made a decision and decided not to break up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u338	on the possible continuation of the meeting of the President. [[...]] Not about whether or not [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u339	The proposal for a law is Please Mr. Squeakl, no [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u340	not about whether or not he's going to break point two. [[...]] President, there are two different procedural proposals. The National Assembly must decide at 10 p.m. whether it will continue its work today. It's 22 o'clock. However, Mr. Pečet's procedural proposal was that he should be brought before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u341	Mr. Squeakle [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u342	before 22 p.m. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u343	I explained it to you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u344	abort. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u345	that we voted to continue a few minutes ago [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u346	As far as the President is concerned, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u347	And please sit down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u348	Mr President, a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u349	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u350	At its 37th urgent meeting, on 27.5., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We've received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. An amendment to Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 20.5.2008 of Article 2 was also submitted to the Act. In the additional working paper, the Committee took note of the comments of the Association of Slovene municipalities of 22.5.2008 and at the meeting itself with the proposal for an editorial amendment of the Committee to Article 1 on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We all know that the basic objective of the law is the ongoing and smooth implementation of the adopted budget rebalancing. We have received further explanations from the Legislative and Legal Service and, in the context of the examination of individual articles, the discussion has been focused on the proposal of the two amendments and on the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 1 and 2 of the legislative proposal. The Committee then adopted the amendment on the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service for the drafting of the text of the first Article. However, he did not accept the amendment of the Zares Group proposing the deletion of Article 2. Otherwise, it agrees substantively with the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, but suggests that this should not be from state or budgetary resources. In accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the adopted amendment has been incorporated into the amended bill, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u351	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u352	Mr President and Mr President, who is gravely violating the Rules of Procedure. The Group of Social Democrats cannot be defined until the law on the implementation of the budget for the following reasons. In today's timetable, the first item of the agenda is the draft rebalancing by simple vote. Only a simple vote and a decision on the proposal for a rebalancing makes it possible to define individual parliamentary groups before the law on the implementation of the 2008 budget, which is bound by a letter from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption of the proposal for a rebalancing. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats cannot be defined by the ZIPR proposal, nor can the other Group of Members be defined because you do not know what you are defining yourself to. The Minister of Finance is also defined for something that does not exist because the 2008 budget or its rebalancing has not been adopted. He hasn't been accepted yet. Therefore, all we have since 21.55 is a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Pece suggested that the second point be interrupted. I suggested because it was 10: 00 p.m., not the break of the second point, but that the National Assembly decide whether or not to continue its work. You're all entitled to that. And I'm only defending your right, which is written on this letter, and also my right. The president of the National Assembly is gravely violating the Rules of Procedure. He is gravely violating his commitments. But the worst part is that it was okay on Tuesday and Wednesday, that we had debates about the laws once and for all, and we voted in the end. It is not true, neither of these laws has written a non-vote. And the basic point of the extraordinary meeting and the two points that are closely linked to each other is to decide first on the balance and then on the ZIPR. Never in Slovenia alone have we accepted the balance, we have not accepted the balance and ZIPRA in unrelated content. We don't know what kind of ZIPRO we should take. We do not know how much to say in ZIPR that the true scope of the debt has not yet been adopted, because we do not have a harmonisation amendment and because we do not have a decision on the full balance. Therefore, it is simply not possible to decide and position individual parliamentary groups up to a non-existent act because it has not yet been adopted. That's what the government says. That's the procedure in the National Assembly. This procedure was gravely violated today. The Group of Social Democrats will not announce obstruction at this point in the agenda. We think that if you decide that you will accept the balance, then of course you will be able to accept the ZIPRO. But you can't be inconclusive and discuss and decide something that doesn't exist at the time of the unacceptable rebalancing. These are legal facts. We therefore propose that, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, the President obtains the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, whether the continuation of such a discussion at point 2 or whether it is possible to conclude the debate at point 2 at all, should the adopted directive of work contain two opposite votes. If this is about the rebalancing, the ZIPRO and the vote at the end, then I agree with you. It doesn't say here. That's the facts. Some of you agree with me, but some of you don't, because that's what they tell you back there. We're not going to participate in this "robota" in a way, unfortunately, it's only on your side that's responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u353	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u354	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Good greetings also to the Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the draft law on the implementation of the budget, which we will adopt tomorrow or tomorrow, for 2008 and 2009, as it is necessary to implement and adapt the changes envisaged by the budget rebalancing. We also assess that the bill is prepared in accordance with the balance that will ensure the smooth functioning of society and the economy, and will also support the stability of the country and continue the well-established development cycle. The bill does not make significant changes. The main solutions are the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor and New Ljubljana Bank. We are aware that Slovenian banks in a globalised world are facing problems, but they are solid and stable. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the recapitalisation of New Credit Bank Maribor, which will keep the country's current ownership and management influence. The Bank of New Ljubljana is provided with a rebalancing of €14.5 million, plus an additional €5 million to increase the funds of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Responsibility and decision-making for the implementation of the budget shall be reflected in the New Slovenia Group through established priorities or allocation of funds for individual purposes. We have been monitoring the whole budget adoption process from the very beginning, so we will support such a proposal to enforce the law that will ensure the most efficient and cost-effective allocation of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u355	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will represent the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u356	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. After all, this bill is directly and legally linked to the 2008 Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which we also support. The main purpose of the proposal for a rebalancing is without increasing the necessary debt to contribute to the country's greater macroeconomic stability. As soon as the previous adoption of the balance is due to changed economic developments and amended legislation in the period following the adoption of the amending budget for 2008. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore set out a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget for this year and it is therefore necessary to adapt this law to the changes in the budget provided for by the rebalancing. In the SLS Group, we are aware that the main objective of the bill is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budget balance. It seems very important to us that the balance provides for additional resources to remedy the effects of the storm from last September's flood. Without funding, the Ministry of Environment and Space will not be able to speed up procedures, activities and reconstruction projects in all areas and areas affected. We also agree with the resolution of the draft law authorising the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to open up items for the purpose of financing generally useful purposes and for financing political parties, unions entitled 0.5% of the income. We also support an article that provides that the purchases received from the sale of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NKBM to EUR 63 million are used for the recapitalisation of the New KBM. In the SLS Group, we believe that the bill will enable the budget to be effectively implemented, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u357	Thank you. A group of Members in obstruction has no word at this point. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u358	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Parliamentary Group will not needlessly waste time on the broad representation of the position, the Group of Members, because we are assessing that the burka that continues is not making much sense. And we don't want to work too long in this burka, we want to finish it as soon as possible and go to a smarter job, and rest is smarter. But I can say that in this burka, which is not noble, we will only cooperate until this moment to say that we will decide on the basis of some conditional conclusions. We find that it is likely to be adopted, tomorrow or later, a proposal for a rebalancing. And if we adopt a proposal for a rebalancing, for which we will contribute our votes, it will also be possible to vote on ZIPR, i.e. on the law that will ensure the implementation of this budget, because these are the two backs of the same problem. In this conditional cooperation, we will only work because Minister Bajuk has assured us that our concerns will be settled within the Government in the way we want, cooperate and vote in favour. And that's the last thing we want to say tonight.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u359	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u360	Thank you for your word. What a blessing it is to all who continue to do so at this late hour! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 regulates the specificities of the implementation of the State budget in the light of the system-wide regulation of the Public Finance Act and sets out the right or ceiling of the State's debt and the granting of guarantees. The envisaged amendment and amendment of the law is the main point of recapitalisation of the Maribor Credit Bank of 63 million and that the amount of the debt is reduced by almost half a million euros. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u361	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled. I hereby end this item of the agenda, because we cannot go to the vote because the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 has not yet been adopted. We will continue the point tomorrow after the end of the regular session and after the end of the first point of the extraordinary session. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u362	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. During the period of time of explanation of the positions of individual parliamentary groups I have placed on the table the cancellation of the obstruction of the Lipa Group at the point of ZIPRO. You must have missed it, or it wasn't sent to you by professional services. I believe that you can't give me a word, but the paper also conveys our signature and it was fast enough that we could do or invite us to present this opinion. Anyone can be wrong. You, too, Mr. President. Therefore, it seems unacceptable to me that the Lipa Group has not been given the opportunity to present its position on the implementation of the budget law. Maybe it's your political decision, but I won't find out. However, it seems completely incorrect to me, given that I gave you a letter in due time with the signature of the head of the Group of Ambassador Lipa Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš to cancel the obstruction, but you did not give us the floor. If it's not willful! You can willingly accept anything, you have also brought Marika, the pardon of Victory [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u363	Mr Zagorac, what a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u364	For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u365	Do you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u366	But that won't do you any good either. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u367	Mr. Zagorac, what kind of procedural proposal do you have?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u368	My procedural proposal is, Mr President, to go back, follow the Rules of Procedure and give your word to those who wish to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u369	Oh, no. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u370	Well, let's be serious. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Committee, Mr Dimitri Kovacic, for an additional explanation of the draft decision. According to Mr Kovacic, Mrs Žgjner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u371	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as a parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Government and an explanation from the Council of State on the reasonable application of the rights of the President of the Council. In its debate on the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the comment to Article 1 refers to a provision which provides that other benefits and rights of the President of the State Council are subject to the provisions of the law governing those rights for members of the National Assembly. Such a provision is unclear and indeterminate because it allows for an arbitrary assessment and an explanation which of the rights enjoyed by Members may also be applied mutatis mutandis to the President of the Council of State. The opinion therefore states which provisions of the Law on Members cannot be applied to members of the Council of State or their President. In the context of the comment to Article 2 of the bill proposing the deletion of the transitional provisions of the Act on the Supplementation of the Law on the State Council, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that the deletion of this provision is unnecessary and technically inappropriate. The provision has already been fully exhausted since it related to the arrangements for the transitional period until the expiry of the previous term of office of the Council of State. Different views were expressed in the debate. The members of the Committee agreed with the legislative and legal service's warning that the function of a Member is already distinct from that of a member of the Council of State, and that it is therefore simply not possible to apply the rights applicable to Members of the Parliament automatically to members of the Council of State or to their President. Therefore, the Chairman of the Committee proposed that the Committee adopt an amendment to remove such a vague and inconclusive solution. The Committee then proceeded after the discussion to the vote and did not adopt a proposal for an amendment to Article 1 for the second sentence of Article 43 of the new third paragraph. However, the amendment committee adopted Article 2 to delete the article. In view of the fact that the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 was not adopted, some members of the Committee, in view of their disagreement with the equalization of all the rights and benefits of the President of the State Council with the rights of Members, said that they did not support the proposal. At the same time, they expressed their willingness to participate in the drafting of a new proposal for a law which, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, will regulate the question of the professional performance of the presidency of the Council of State and will address the issue of other rights and benefits accordingly. However, some members of the Committee, despite the view that the issue of other rights and benefits should be more specifically settled, expressed their support for the proposal for a law, since it removes the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution by the Constitutional Court. On the basis of the vote, after the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together, the draft law on the basis of this vote was not adopted, which means that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u372	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, as there is no representative of the Council of State and a representative of the Government did not wish to discuss it. Procedural proposal, Mrs. Žginer Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, despite the fact that you are conducting today's meeting extremely improperly today despite the late hours, I would also like to get an explanation on your part as part of the procedural proposal, why you did not allow Lipa's Group to cancel. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u374	Mrs. Zguiner [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u375	Let me finish, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u376	We are at the 3rd item of the agenda. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u377	I have three minutes to explain the procedural proposal. [[...]] May I remind you that you have allowed the Lip Group to cancel the alleged obstruction. You were in charge of the session at the previous regular session when the anti-corruption commission was discussed. You did something different today. Tell me and let this be my procedural proposal, on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly did not take into account the written request that the Lipa Group cancels the obstruction and participates in the presentation of the position in point of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me before you interrupt me again, because I see you're very impatient. Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u378	Not impatient, I just want to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u379	At the same time, I predict obstruction for the entire extraordinary session so that there will be no disagreement or misunderstanding on your part. [[...]] However, I am predicting obstruction from protest over your today's incorrect and self-governing session, which is contrary to this blue book, which should or should be some kind of holy letter to this Parliament. As has already been said, I am predicting obstruction for the entire extraordinary session on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u380	First of all, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, you cannot predict obstruction for the entire session, but only for a single point, which is why I do not accept this obstruction. Secondly, I really broke the Rules of Procedure, but when I allowed you to cancel the obstruction. For nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that the Group of the Messengers can remove obstruction on their own accord. And at the time of the point you're obstructing it, you have no right to speak, not to cancel the obstruction. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I think it was clear enough. Do you want to correct the forecast of obstruction and predict it at this point? Please, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, you can do this and correct your mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u381	As deputy leader, it seems to me that I have the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u382	Of course you do, in the presence of Mrs Tavšova, you certainly do not have to give it in writing either. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u383	You have seen, Mr President, how little it takes to make us all reasonable, and so do you. [[....]] But explain to your colleagues who didn't understand that we don't have any obstruction because the President didn't give it to us, so I'm fixing it now. All those of you who laughed were laughing at each other in a mustache and in your face. But as I said before, it's human to be wrong, and I also understand your mistakes and be forgiven. Even when you're laughing. On behalf of the Lipa Group, Mr President, I think he has three minutes at his disposal to announce the obstruction of this item on the agenda of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. First, because the presence of both representatives of the State Council and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not guaranteed, and secondly, because of your way of conducting an extraordinary meeting. As I said in one of the previous procedural proposals, this moment is enough for you, you are 46. You pulled a man out of bed, let him vote that he didn't stand up without a relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u384	Thank you. The Lipa delegation announced an obstruction to the third point of the extraordinary meeting. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u385	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The new Law on the State Council, submitted by the Council of State and dealt with in a reduced manner, refers to the office of President of the Council of State on the fact that the President holds a professional office and thus has the right to pay. The Constitutional Court found in its decision last year that the provisions relating to the office of President of the Council of State were inconsistent with the Constitution and that the Conseil d'affaires should be abolished within six months. In this way, it is legal to exercise the professional office of President of the Council of State. In the New Slovenia Group, we have a different position with regard to the exercise of the presidency and also with regard to the status of the State Council itself, which we have presented several times. With regard to the novelty itself, we do not agree that all provisions applicable to Members shall apply mutatis mutandis to the exercise of the presidency of the Council of State. We believe that the provisions should be clarified, which are those rights that Members have and should also apply to the President of the Council of State. We will not support the proposed proposal because we believe it is not appropriate for further consideration, but we expect a more appropriate proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u386	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u387	Good-bye! Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! There have been many discussions about the necessity and nonsense of the State Council. Much has been said about the role and tasks of the President of the Council of State. We are all aware, however, that the Constitutional Court's decision cannot only be disputed but must be respected and recalled. This February we voted on a bill that we believe was good, but unfortunately did not get a two-thirds majority. The proposal before us, in the opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, is not appropriate for further consideration. The members of the Committee agreed with the legislative and legal service's warning that the function of a Member is already distinct from that of a member of the Council of State and therefore the rights applicable to Members cannot be automatically applied to members of the Council of State or their President. We also agree with this in our parliamentary group and join the initiative to draw up a new proposal. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council, prepared by the State Council, does not follow the best decision of the Constitutional Court, so we cannot support this proposal. However, we will be involved in drafting a new bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u388	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the Council of State is concerned, the Slovenian National Party has an exact, accurate and unwavering opinion. The National Council is a blind intestine of Slovenian Parliamentarianism and has nothing to do with our system. The fact is that the State Council has not yet done one positive thing. Whatever he did were strange obstructions, strange demands on vetoes. When a man expected to be vetoed on some consistent matter that he should have given to him, he certainly did not. When it came to some private interests of some local gentlemen of finance, economists or anything like that, it was, of course, a veto. Thank you so much for such a state world! Such a State Council in Slovenia has nothing to do. This is the remainder of the former system, the socialist system, the three-house assembly system, which has remained with us in the Republic of Slovenia due to the request of Mr Bučar in particular. Well done to Mr Butcher, but at that moment it may have been opportunistic, today it is no longer. It is true that the State Council is fighting only and only for its own interests. They're interested in their own finances, how much money they're going to have, how much they're going to bring them, what they haven't done so far. And there is no way that the Slovenian National Party would support their demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u390	Thank you. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u391	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party also believe that the proposed law does not follow the full decision of the Constitutional Court, at least in the part where it speaks of the professional role of the President of the Council of State, at the same time stipulates that other rights and other benefits are applied in an analogous manner as is the case with Members of the National Assembly. In view of the fact that it is not an institution or a body which is identical, this has been determined by a rather controversial and problematic and also inappropriate decision of the Constitutional Court. The Law on the State Council should specify on these other rights and benefits, which rights they are, rather than referring to the status of a Member. That is why this proposed law is unacceptable and cannot be supported by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, we will vote in favour of not being fit for further consideration by the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u392	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council is not suitable for further consideration, we will vote in the framework of the vote tomorrow. This concludes this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow after the regular meeting of the National Assembly. I also interrupt the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow after the regular meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your participation, patience and good night!
