ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the continuation of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Slavko Gaber, Aurelio Juri, Bojan Kontič, Milan Petek, Miran Potrč, Maria Possonec, Jakob Presečnik and Alojz Sok. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a bill supplementing the Health Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Ivan Grill, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Mr State Secretary, honourable fellow Members and Members. At its 29th regular meeting on 9 April 2008, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposal for an Act on Supplements to the Health Act submitted by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and reception. The draft law was explained in an introductory manner by the applicant, who stressed that the proposed supplement would systematically regulate the implementation of clinical nutrition activities in Slovenian hospitals. The proposed amendment of the law was also presented by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health. He stressed that the patient’s diet is an important component of the therapeutic process and that the Ministry of Health is working very hard to ensure that this area is also well implemented in our hospitals. However, he stated that the amendment of Article 15 by supplementing this indent does not in any way alter the diction of the content of this Article, since the present Article 15 in the current law actually states that nutrition is also an integral part of the operation of each hospital. Each healthcare facility, and thus, of course, every hospital, must already ensure that the patient, especially those who are called clinical nutrition as part of therapy, is provided. This is a matter of medical expertise and professional guidance for every healthcare institution and they already have all the legal basis for such nutrition being implemented. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also notes that, on the basis of the resolution adopted on the national food policy programme 2005-2010, there is a specific strategy to ensure adequate nutrition for patients in hospitals with a view to ensuring adequate health care for patients. The Minister of Health has already appointed a special working group for hospital nutrition, to which the most visible experts in this field are appointed. The Group has already drawn up concrete solutions on the basis of the resolution adopted, as well as a plan for the education and training of operators. Adequate financial resources are also provided, since the Health Council, as the highest healthcare professional, has given priority to the provision of funds. In a broad and controversial debate involving all members of the Committee and invited to the meeting, different positions were raised on the matter. All the discussers were of the opinion that clinical nutrition is very important in the treatment of disease as it provides quality rehabilitation and improves overall treatment. In view of the way this diet is organised, cost-covering and education of staff, the views of the discussers differed. At the end of the discussion of a number of debates, the representative of the Health Insurance Office pointed out that it was from the debate that it was possible to understand that, in essence, a completely different objective was being pursued, as stated by the proposer in the presentation of the law, namely the exercise of the right of insured persons to a special diet for special health purposes. The representative of the Health Insurance Office explained that, in order to exercise this right, this must be regulated in the Health and Health Insurance Act and not in the Health Activity Act which was discussed at that meeting. The provision of such a diet has already been made possible by the law. In the discussion below, the representative of the Government assured the Government that the topic of the exercise of the right of insured persons to a specific diet for special health purposes was regulated by the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will be submitted for parliamentary consideration in a short time. Given that it was quite clear at the end of the debate that the Law on Health Activities, which had been tabled by the drafter of the law, by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, did not address the scope of the application of the rights of insured persons for special medical purposes, the Committee concluded that the proposed Act on Supplements to the Law on Health Activities was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, to present the position on the proposal of the mother labour body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! By supplementing the proposal for a Health Act, we really wanted to regulate the field of clinical nutrition by means of food care in the Member States and to be classified as compulsory specialist activities in hospitals. At the moment, in practice, our hospital diet is more service and technical. Most hospitals have no special departments, in fact we do not know one who would have designed such a special department that would work professionally in the field of nutrition. However, the profession of a clinical dietologist is still rare, although this has been noted since 2001. We were reminded of the irregularities in this area by representatives of the profession, representatives of individual hospitals and especially patients and patients, particularly in the field of cancer patients. Nutrition of patients is an important factor and an indicator of the quality of treatment. A number of studies have shown that nutrition has a significant impact on the course and length of treatment, i.e. on the higher number of complications, longer treatment and longer lying periods and the associated higher costs. In Slovenia, we have also made a commitment under the National Food Policy Resolution to introduce adequate nutrition support to patients as part of their therapy, but unfortunately in practice, not much has happened in this area. However, in the context of the specific working group, as already mentioned, experts have prepared professional guidelines for healthy nutrition in hospitals and nursing homes. Nothing happened from here on out. Their proposal and the proposal, which was designed at the time, if necessary, to amend the law, was in the drawers of the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, there is still no suitable place in hospitals in the practice of eating. It is also involved in the provision of adequate financial resources. We do not have studies in this area in Slovenia and abroad show that during treatment, such as cancer patients, 85% of patients are malnourished. It was also known and at the time of the debate on the law it was said that about 40% of patients were malnourished after 65 years of age. Approximately 30% of the patients who were fed or had dietary deficits at the time of their intake were also expected to be diagnosed at the Ljubljana Clinical Center with a cross-sectional analysis at the time of their admission. Appropriate food therapy should therefore be introduced in a timely manner as part of an integral treatment. The most critical situation is the Cancer Institute, which, despite its new construction and magnificent architecture, has lost its own kitchen, preventing any person from treating and adapting food to the needs of patients. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really hope that this will be resolved as soon as possible, certainly before the next construction phase, which has moved to 2012. On our proposal, we have already received conclusions on the early regulation in this area in the Committee on Health of the National Assembly, which is headed by the Oncology Institute. This should also specifically address the area of post-hospital diet, i.e. when patients leave the hospital, because there are problems here, and all food products and substitutes are not available free of charge to Slovenian patients. When regulating the field of clinical nutrition, it is not a superstandard one, for so-called hotel services, as someone cynically named it years ago, nor for caprices, but for the introduction of adequate nutritional support for those patients because it is part of their therapy. In this way, significant savings could be achieved, so European Council studies show that between 2% and 3% of global savings come in, by reducing lying days, improving the effects and quality of treatment, reducing complications and reducing absence from work.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his views on the proposal of the mother's working body. Mr Darko Žiberna, Dr. medicine, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u6	Mr President, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a few words on this subject. So we believe that the proposer is actually proposing to amend the law in the part where matter is already equally regulated. Article 15 of the Health Act itself already provides that nutrition is an integral part of the operation of general and special hospitals, and the amendment of the law does not contribute to anything or any added value in this regard. However, I would like to say something else that the Ministry of Health has actually launched two very important documents in this mandate, which will undoubtedly have an added value that can be calculated and proved, and this is a resolution already adopted on the national food policy programme and the guidelines for healthy nutrition in hospitals and the elderly are also written and printed. These guidelines, however, are the operational document in modern medical doctrine, which actually introduces improvements and uniformities in the regulation of such food problems in Slovenian hospitals. In this respect, I also reiterate that the amendment or amendment of Article 15 itself is a repetition of the same and does not contribute to the added value. Allow me to explain briefly the ambiguity of the thesis on the irregularity of the area. As all healthcare activities are improved, the two documents mentioned above are a very important basis. I would also like to say that it is not necessary for each hospital to organise a special clinical department for nutrition, because even in developed European countries it is not yet so, but it is true that nutrition is an integral part of the treatment process in all modern hospitals and also in Slovenian hospitals. For the area of the Oncology Institute, money is provided for the establishment of a special outpatient activity for the special area of nutrition, because we believe - and we agree with the proposer - that this is the area where this hospital is, in fact, the most exposed to this additional need for regulation. Therefore, the funds are already foreseen and will be settled after the adoption of the system-wide health system acts this year. I would also like to say that we do not have the impression that there is nothing to be done in the area of nutrition in Slovenian hospitals, because it is literally not the case because this is not the case, but at the same time I would like to say that the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will also come in a short time to this Parliament, would no doubt state that patients who need special food therapy will receive it entirely from public funds, of course on this basis, on the prescription of the doctor who is treating this patient. Because of this, I believe that this novel may actually have a good purpose, but in practice it is totally unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, distinguished Vice-President, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem's new law on health activities aims to systematically regulate clinical nutrition activities in Slovenian hospitals. The applicant relies on a study conducted in 30 countries last year to show that inadequate nutrition affects the extension of hospital treatment and increases mortality among patients. It has been confirmed that patients with better nutritional status have fewer complications during treatment and, on the other hand, treatment is more effective. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that nutrition is a very important, much more diet of patients who are part of therapy. Clinical nutrition should be considered as a food therapy that can contribute to better and better treatment. Therefore, the clinical diet is not just and only food, but it means a comprehensive approach to the preparation of a balanced diet suitable for individual types of diseases and therapies. The process thus involves not only food preparation, but also organisation, education and, of course, financing. Therefore, the issue of clinical nutrition cannot be dealt with superficially and quickly, simply by amending or correcting one article in the Health Act. A more systematic and comprehensive approach to the legal regulation of the area, which in Slovenia, telling the truth to love, will be needed, is not yet fully regulated and as you would like. However, pending the preparation of an appropriate and appropriate law, which the government promises, hospitals have some kind of guidance and guidance for action in the field of clinical nutrition, namely in a resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010, which sets out a strategy for ensuring adequate nutrition in hospitals through quality food support and counselling to patients. A special working group of experts in this field is also established in Slovenia, which prepares solutions for established clinical diets. Guidelines for healthy eating in hospitals also include specific proposals, as well as training proposals for clinical diets and other hospital staff responsible for food preparation. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the proposed amendment of the law, but we will strive to ensure that the Government actually prepares appropriate legal solutions that will accurately and comprehensively cover the clinical diet in our hospitals, in particular at the Oncology Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u10	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law that is before us is not necessary or could be said to be somewhat late, since in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we have already adopted a Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010, where we have committed ourselves to ensuring adequate nutrition for patients in hospitals. The Patients' Rights Act also guarantees the patient's right to adequate quality and safe health care, which certainly includes quality nutrition as part of the treatment process not only during hospital or other institution's stay, but also in the process of rehabilitation or recovery after illness at home or in patients with chronic illness. However, the consideration of the law is an opportunity to draw attention to the totally unacceptable fact that in the 21st century many patients in the world die from malnutrition, knowing that this can be prevented simply by proper nutrition. We agree with the claim that proper clinical diet allows better rehabilitation and better quality of integrated treatment. It is also important that this even reduces the cost of treatment, as shown by the results of research in many countries around the world. Particular attention should also be paid to helping you to feed yourself, especially in patients who are prevented from eating on their own because of illness or condition. Due to the lack and overload of nursing staff, this is becoming a major problem in Slovenian hospitals. Research results in both Western countries and in us show that up to 85% of cancer patients have been fed during treatment. Therefore, the patient’s treatment is important and professionally justified for the timely introduction of food therapy as an integral part of the treatment. We can also agree with the opinion of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, which assesses the need for clinical nutrition to be carried out in the same way as any other medical treatment, which requires experts in this field, especially clinical diets which Slovenia does not have. Therefore, it is certainly necessary for us to first train existing personnel in health care with the knowledge of proper nutrition and to establish an effective clinical nutrition network in hospitals on the basis of guidelines issued by the European Clinical Nutrition Association. It should be noted, however, that the clinical diet should become a separate profession dealing with food therapy as part of the treatment, thereby improving the effect of the treatment of the disease. In our view, these options are already set by the standards in the resolution and the law on patient rights, and the ministry has already begun to act in this direction. The law is therefore unnecessary, including the fact that in 2005 the Minister of Health appointed a special working group for hospital nutrition in which the most visible experts in this field are appointed. This group has prepared concrete solutions on the basis of a resolution, under the guidance of healthy nutrition of patients in hospitals and elderly in nursing homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! The fact is that in the Group we really believe that the field of clinical nutrition in our specialist hospitals, especially at the Oncology Institute, is inadequate. This is the subject of professional warnings, warnings from different patient societies. Let me mention, for example, the Society of Europe Colonies, which brings together cancer patients on the colon, with whom we have been particularly involved in this law, as well as alerted many individuals who have turned to us. Whether we deal with the law or with anything else, it's really irrelevant to us. Today we have received the answer that this is an appropriate legal basis. But then why don't you do anything? We have a resolution, we have an adequate legal basis, and practice is unregulated. That is why, in the Group of Members, we have really proposed that we explicitly write this down in law and so systematically regulate it. Unfortunately, we have not received adequate support from the Ministry of Health or the ruling coalition. Talking about something that's already been done is getting away from reality. Unfortunately, only support at the resolution declaration level is not enough for us. The resolution is a guide; it is a goal, and concrete practice is modest and linked only to more or less self-sufficient individuals. The working group, which was appointed to draw up guidelines in this area, has drawn up concrete proposals and guidelines and guidelines that the Ministry is now setting up in some way, although it was precisely the one that was involved in the drafting of this law for me, namely Dr Koziakov, the institution of this task. At that time, she was told that a legal change was needed. That was the Ministry's instructions. Then the whole thing stopped and was stored in a department drawer. In Slovenian hospitals, clinical nutrition has no suitable place, is not well-managed or is not well-managed, and the consequences are particularly felt by patients as the cost of treatment increases due to irregularity. In rejecting the legal proposal to regulate the clinical diet, the Ministry argued that it had already been systematically regulated and transferred responsibility to the organisation in individual hospitals. We don't think so. This is also illustrated by practice. It's a problem. For each individual patient or patient, resources must be provided with special roles and in long-term procedures the case is not regulated even during treatment in hospitals and more problems arise after dismissal, as all emergency food products cannot be obtained on a free prescription, which should be part of compulsory health insurance. Notwithstanding the fact that it is proposed that the law be rejected, the fact remains that something will have to be done in this area. The Ministry of Health will have to face poor practice, problems, warnings and action. Their opinion and their rejection of the proposal for legal regulation is, at the moment, the transfer and escape from the problem and responsibility. They stated in their opinion: "The law itself does not provide sufficient basis for all the changes that are necessary in this area." So, the recognition is that there is a problem, otherwise all these changes would not be necessary. I quote: "This area must be addressed in a comprehensive manner, taking into account education, organisation and financial resources, which is not sufficient for the proposed amendment of the law." We agree. We would only like to know what the Ministry has done; what the Ministry has done to ensure that all this education, organisation and funding is sufficient. I only hope that their proposal for a new law on health care, which they have announced in their opinion as a way of comprehensive regulation in this area, will see the light of the world as soon as possible. Maybe this month, or one year anyway will be nothing. The Health Council, as the highest professional body, has given priority to these issues more than a year ago, and unfortunately nothing has moved to date. Of course, we particularly want concrete solutions at the Oncology Institute, kitchen arrangements and, of course, we welcome the fact that the professional leadership has already informed the public that it is looking for solutions in this direction before 2012, when this is supposed to be done with some subsequent phase of construction, and of course we hope that they will also regulate the clinical nutrition unit at that institute as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, both representatives of the Ministry of Health! I must say that I have been literally appalled by the procedure and work afforded by the government coalition at the time of this proposal. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, the policy of overcoming the arguments, the substantive arguments, which, despite the initial opposition of some SDS Members, could only be expressed by those who were invited to the meeting of the parent working body - the public concerned. Finally, important experts who have participated within the Ministry of Health in the drafting of proposals to supplement the Health Act. This is this document, which also contains the content of the bill we are talking about today. This document has also been commissioned by the Ministry of Health under Mr Bručan's Ministry of Health and has joined the process of dealing with a problem that has not yet been regulated within our healthcare system. Despite the fact that the Secretary of State refers to Europe - because Europe does not have an orderly issue in the way proposed in the context of the amendment tabled in the parliamentary procedure by colleague Cveta Zalokar Orazem, but Mr Žiberna - forgets to say that Europe is not a single step ahead of us, because in all our neighbouring countries, clinical nutrition as an independent profession is formally recognised. Clinical nutrition is systematically regulated and similarly organised by almost all European countries. In Austria, Italy and the Netherlands, the clinical nutrition activity is multi-disciplinary and multi-level. Patients who need special food therapy as part of treatment are treated in metabolic centres or so-called units for clinical nutrition. A number of preferential metabolic centres operate in Europe. Tell me if we have such centers in our country. Tell me, however, whether in our country, which is supposed to be, I do not know, according to the Ministry of Health, they have an example within the European Union in the field of health or health care - I apologize. Do our patients really have an ideal condition for treatment? Clinical nutrition. It's not going here, I don't know, I'm going to say healthy food: a kilo of vegetables a week. Now I'm plasticizing the matter, because we've heard about it on the parent's working body - far away from it! It is a special diet, a diet that patients need as a basic function of life. Often forget - yes, I believe we cannot imagine - what this means for people who are sick, who need help, who, after all, also depend on a special diet that we who are laymen can in some way view as a special medicine or treatment. I deliberately speak very plasticly, because I hope that one of those Members who have just followed some, and I will say very empty, as far as content is concerned, the arguments they have presented to the Ministry of Health and have just pressed the "no" button of this bill. No mention was given to the Lipa Group from patients who point out the services they received abroad in Germany and what services they received in Slovenia. In general, the resolution referred to in the Ministry of Health is not mandatory for a system to be transposed into practice and for patients to be granted a system or rights to which they should be entitled. And the proposal for a law that we are talking about today, which, while the mother labour force has voted negatively by the government majority, is undoubtedly an important step against those people who need help. I ask you to vote or support this bill. We'll support the law in the Lip Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Bručan on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u16	Mr President, Secretary of State with a co-worker! The proposed amendment of the law is intended to systematically regulate the clinical nutrition activity in Slovenian hospitals. And clinical nutrition, we all know well that health care is a practice or practice, is an independent profession that also deals with food therapy, thereby improving the effect of the treatment of the disease in full and the quality of the treatment. And clinical nutrition includes the identification of the patient’s nutritional status and eating habits, the identification of nutritional needs and the preparation of the diet plan necessary for the maintenance, recovery and improvement of the patient’s health and monitoring. Of course, due to the lack of knowledge found on the clinical diet of some healthcare workers and patients, recognition of the importance of clinical nutrition and its implementation is also a necessary professional activity in this area. That is why, already in 2005, on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly adopted a Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010. This resolution is a result of long-standing efforts, many years of efforts in this area, and is a great result, a great success of the entire Slovenian policy in terms of food policy in Slovenia. This resolution foresees, as has already been said today, a specific strategy to ensure adequate nutrition for patients in Slovenian hospitals and aims to ensure that patients are properly fed through quality food support and counselling in hospitals. I appointed this committee, now mentioned several times by Dr. Nada Koziakov, as Minister in 2005. This group has actually developed good guidelines for healthy nutrition for patients and, of course, these guidelines need to be implemented in practice even now, although these options for the implementation of these guidelines or the content of this part are already provided in the current legislation. That is why I do not think that a change to the Health Act at this point is necessary, but in fact some things in the area of patient nutrition will have to be regulated in the new Health Action Act in its entirety, which is in preparation and in particular with the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. For this law regulates what the law's proponents now want to arrange; that is, the separation of services from the patient's diet where it is marked is characterized as a therapeutic activity. And this can be regulated already, but more clearly defined even further into the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is now, as I hear today, also on its way to the Government and also to Parliament. But I would like to say a few more words about the malnutrition of patients. It was also indicated that 40% of patients who came to hospitals were malnourished. This, of course, even if it is true, has no connection then - clinical nutrition does not cause this number to be 40% malnourished. It is true, though, that at times some diseases can also lead to the patient’s malnutrition. At the Oncology Institute, the thing about the patient’s diet is actually in some areas, especially those in the therapeutic sense, but not the usual hotel diet, somehow in recent years it has stalled. What's the problem? The problem is that in the plans prepared for the Oncology Institute, the LDS government shut down the restaurant and the kitchen at the Oncology Institute, and that's why it's not there, it can't be. Now it's time to fix these things. This is not just overnight, and it will take some time for these things to normalize. The Socialist Party's Group supports the Government's view that this change of law is not necessary, but that some things in the area of patient nutrition, especially those in the patient's therapy, should be regulated by other relevant legal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups of the polemics is not allowed, so I will not negate, but I will list some flowers that I have heard today and belong to the section Yes, it is not true, but it is. Someone said the proposal was well-intentioned, but it's not necessary. Someone else said the marriage wasn't necessary, but it's too late. The third said, the area is not regulated, but we will not support the bill. These were the arguments heard today in the presentation of the views of the groups. The introduction to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Health Act shows that the area of malnutrition in European hospitals is not unknown in the sense that they do not face these problems. There is insufficient knowledge of clinical nutrition. While this may be a very general conclusion, it is impossible to agree that experts in this field are not in Slovenia. In doing so, it is necessary to reiterate that adequate nutrition is an important factor in the overall treatment system. Clinical nutrition is an independent profession and is carried out or should be treated as any other medical treatment. In the Group of Social Democrats, we cannot agree to the Government's arguments in the negative position when it notes that this issue is not regulated by law, but we have adopted a Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010; I repeat, 2005-2010. Today is included in the quota in 2008. It is true that an expert group has been appointed to provide guidance on the healthy nutrition of patients in hospitals and the elderly in nursing homes, and there is a problem called adequate funding, which is expected to be provided in 2008. I repeat, today is April 25, 2008. Do we have those funds or not? The Secretary of State shall respond to the provision of funds. This, as he would say, was a beautiful sunny day for today - unfortunately it rained. In translation this means: the funds were foreseen, unfortunately they were not. The government is of the opinion that the bill itself does not provide sufficient basis for all the changes that are necessary in this area. Okay. Even if this claim holds serious judgment, it is impossible to say that the proposed solution is not a step in the right direction. Also known for proposals not owned by the Government or coalition: The government will address this issue in the new Health Act and thus ensure comprehensive regulation of the area while avoiding partial regulation of the problem, and will continue its activities in this area by then. How well - known that government view sounds! How many times have we heard him in this term! On a committee where we almost lost our debate due to a procedural decision by a coalition Member, which was contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and later came to the conclusion of a coalition where they wanted to take a decision at the outset that the proposal for a law was not a suitable basis and that it should be decided on the Committee. This is also an interesting statement when a member of the government coalition responded to the motioner in a way that she said, "You know, this is your law, your service has prepared it." And he finally said, "That's what makes me think that hunters are still reaching for our jobs, if that's what they call it." What kind of work are you doing? What kind of jobs? The Ministry of Health is in the service of all of us. This is not private property of a particular political option! At least I hope so; I hope that it is not possible to inherit everything in this country. And that includes the services that are not ours or yours, but are common. The message to the opposition is certainly clear: You can already have the constitution and the rules of procedure allow you to make proposals for laws or perhaps just amendments, but your efforts are in vain. The coalition is given elections to make rules and govern the country, and later its Members ask why we do not make proposals if we think they are necessary. Of course, they're all slightly rejected. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the proposal concludes that the proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration, we will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary, Mrs Collaborator, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, it has been repeatedly said that the Republic of Slovenia is a signatory to the Council of Europe resolution on nutrition and nutrition in hospitals and that the principles and objectives of this resolution are included in the resolution adopted by this National Assembly, namely the resolution on the national food policy programme, and that this resolution also includes strategies to ensure adequate nutrition for the specific population groups and also to introduce adequate food support for patients as part of their therapy. Of course, it is important to ask how the implementation of this resolution is in practice. We have heard many words of this coalition when considering the Law on Student Diet, how important it is to create healthy eating habits, to take care of how many meals are eaten daily, and to take care of the composition of each meal. Today, we can ask ourselves how is the introduction into the practice of guiding this resolution, and we can see that the signals from the ground are those that say that the introduction of this resolution is modest. Today we can hear that we have expert groups that are preparing certain guidelines, but unfortunately there are no concrete movements at the concrete level. Therefore, we would be able to agree here that this area of nutrition and especially clinical nutrition has not yet been properly regulated, but, of course, we are wondering how to formulate legal proposals to regulate this area, while at the same time rejecting those proposals that would try to take a step forward here - and the law on supplementing the Health Act is certainly going in this direction. It is not possible to deny today in professional circles and also in the lay public that clinical nutrition is a professional; an expert in nutrition therapy. So it's a profession that means an integral part of the treatment. Therefore, it is impossible to reduce the issue of this law to the existence of a kitchen in the composition of a hospital, because we are talking about a profession, we are talking about an integral part of medical therapy, which, in our opinion and also in the opinion of the proposers of this law, is not adequately included in the component of the therapy. And if that is not the case, then it should be asked whether the current legal provision, which includes, as stated in article 15, during the course of the activity, nutrition, or only this provision adequately resolves the new knowledge of the profession that the clinical diet should be included as an integral part of the therapy, i.e. as a diet therapy, and this is an integral part of the treatment. If it is so easy to reject this law and everything is already possible at the hospital level today, then it is necessary to ask why there are no teams at the hospital level that are designed to deal with this professionally, why there is no significant increase in the proportion of hospital funding even through this item. And here is now the question of how we will deal with this issue in a comprehensive way. I also agree with those who say that the Health and Health Insurance Act will also need to be supplemented. This is true, but this means that several laws in this area will have to be amended in order to fully implement the resolution on healthy nutrition. And today the bill is one of those who can make a difference. Let us just remember that at the Committee on Health and the National Assembly, we have already discussed a special group, that is, a group with a problem with phenylketonuria. That we have asked the Minister of Health about the issues of celiacism, that is, we do not have all the problems that the Health and Health Insurance Act will necessarily have to include, as this is indeed the rights of insured persons, persons with special nutritional needs for health purposes, for which, in our view, clinical nutrition is an integral part. And of course, in this case, if we want to improve and take concrete steps forward in order to reduce the number of complications where we will reduce treatment, where we will reduce lying times, where we will reduce the cost of treatment, then, of course, support for this bill is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, which is 5 minutes after the end of the first item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to local laws and amendments to local laws, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Dr. Ivan Jagar, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members. You already have before you the second amendment to the Local Elections Act, prepared after the last local elections in 2006, because some problems have arisen in the elections. Some problems in this regard have already been addressed by the Constitutional Court with its decisions, while others have been resolved by amendments and additions to laws already proposed by the Government on its own initiative for the purpose of improving these laws. The purpose and purpose of these amendments and the completion of the Local Elections Act is to bring the law into line with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The objectives of the bill are: to establish a composition of the electoral committees so that members of the electoral committees cannot be persons who are candidates in a related or similar relationship and to more precisely regulate the determination of the outcome of the elections by post. As regards the first harmonisation, we are aware that the adoption of the amendment will also lead to some difficulties in the composition of the electoral committees. The preparation of that amendment required a thorough reflection on how to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, as the comparative regulation also indicates that this is a novelty, especially since the electoral committees consist of members proposed by different political parties. However, from the point of view of the rule of law, the decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected and implemented. Therefore, as candidates, we did not intervene in the incompatibilities of members of other electoral bodies with candidates on the list, since the decision of the Constitutional Court does not affect other electoral bodies. With regard to the discussion on the home working body on the regime of incompatibility with the candidate, I would also like to explain to the members of the municipal electoral commission that this restriction cannot be established by law. The municipal electoral commission is a body by special law acting solely on the basis of the provisions of the law and the instructions of the State Election Commission. The work of the Commission shall be based on the expertise and legality and principles of confidence in the electoral bodies. In addition, they shall be subject to continuous supervision by the representatives of the lists of candidates who have the right to be present at their work. This should also be borne in mind by the established principle of exclusion, which can always be applied when it comes to doubts about bias. If a member of the municipal electoral commission does not wish to be excluded from the decision-making process, the municipal electoral commission may decide. We believe that, as drafters of the law, the notice of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development is justified, that the solution proposed goes beyond the requirements of the Constitutional Court Decision and that the Government has supported the regulation in the debate on the home labour body by limiting the entire link between the members of the electoral committee and the candidate to an electoral unit and that the relatives are listed in particular. Secondly, the determination of the outcome of the vote by post was problematic following the current regulation, as it was not clear on the basis of which the electoral commission could determine whether the ballots were submitted in due time to the post, which is one of the essential conditions for their validity. The draft law provides that ballots shall be regarded as having a stamp, in good time, so that they must be physically placed at the post office, or that the envelopes must be accompanied by documents showing the date of their transmission to the post office. The solution is reasonable, as determined by the Constitutional Court for the conduct of elections until the non-conformity has been resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Franz Jazbec to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development shall be held at its 17th regular session of 8. 4. 2008 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, a representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly shall be the President of the National Assembly on 13. 2. 2008 sent a proposal for a law to the opinion of the municipalities. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Municipality of Velenje and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In an additional explanation for the articles, the representative of the proposer shall be the State Secretary in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development mags. Marko Starman stressed that it was the intention of the Government to align the provisions of the Local Elections Act with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The first coordination relates to the composition of the electoral committees, on which the Government has determined that the members of the electoral committees cannot be persons who are with candidates in a related and similar relationship. The draft law therefore provides that a member of the electoral committee may not be a person who, with a candidate in the family level and in the lateral line, is not to be a member of the electoral committee up to and including another knee. The Legislative and Legal Service gave an opinion examining the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out at the meeting that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services were taken into account in the proposed amendments, in particular those relating to the restriction of incompatibility, the proposed replacement of the word "community area" with the "election unit area". In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported the draft law. The President of the Darko Fras Commission drew particular attention to the solution in Article 1 of the proposed amendment to the law and stressed that the proposed amendment fully followed the Commission's opinion. In so doing, it stated that the Commission, on the basis of comparative and legal arrangements, found that the decision of the Constitutional Court was to derogate from established legal practice. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee moved on to a discussion on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled below. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the second reading, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the following qualified proponents: Members of the Coalition Group to Articles 1 and 4 and the LDS Club to Article 1. In the discussion on the articles of the proposed law to which the amendments were tabled, the focus was on Article 1. Various opinions were expressed, members of the Committee were of the view that the amendment proposed by the parties to the coalition to Article 1 took due account of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which cautions that the proposed solution in the draft law exceeds the requirement of the Constitutional Court decision to determine the non-compatibilities of membership in electoral committees due to the related relationship with any candidate in the municipality. The Committee adopted the following amendments: Article 1 and Article 4 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. With the adoption of those amendments, it has become a meaningless amendment to Article 1 of the LDS. The Committee went on to consider the articles to which no amendments were tabled, and there was no discussion on these articles. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and supported all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u26	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us changes and additions to the Local Elections Act, which are due solely to the decision of the Constitutional Court. It has decided that the provisions of the law governing the composition of the electoral committees and the provisions governing the elections by post are inconsistent with the Constitution. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law setting out the composition of the electoral committees so that the members of the electoral committees cannot be persons who are with candidates in a related or similar relationship. The bill also specifies the outcome of the elections by post. The impartiality of the electoral committee is essential for democratic elections. Impartiality means that the person who decides is not interested in the outcome of the proceedings. Such an interpretation of the Constitutional Court, with all due respect for it alone, seems to us to be a little too strict and that, since, ultimately, it may also question the provisions of the law that electoral commissions and committees propose political parties. These are certainly the most interested in the outcome of the procedure, but we know that the composition of the electoral commissions and committees from various political parties is the greatest assurance that the elections have been conducted legitimately and that there are no different frauds and embezzlements. An extremely strict decision is also referred to by an international comparison, which shows that the different countries of the composition of the electoral commissions and committees are virtually free of any restrictions. However, before us is a proposal for amendments to the law and in accordance with the will and decision of the Constitutional Court, Members of the SLS Group will also fully support them in avoiding any concerns about the legitimate conduct of all future elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u28	Dear Presidents, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The experience of several past elections with us, and also abroad, shows that more and more losers in elections with very narrow outcomes are not attuned to defeat, and are paying attention to any irregularities in the elections, to any such minor lack of electoral legislation that they believe could bring decisive missing votes, so it is still important that the legislator anticipates and resolves any situation that is not or is not properly regulated in positive law and could affect the need for re-elections, resulting in additional already high costs. Given that in two cases concerning the last local elections, the Constitutional Court found that the existing arrangements under the Law on Local Elections were inconsistent with constitutional principles, it imposed on the legislator the elimination of such discrepancies or the filling of legal gaps, with the time limit for the correction of contested marriages being set in one case in approximately one month and in the other in a month and a half. The government has prepared and tabled legislation in due time and has allowed members of the National Assembly to adopt and remedy the shortcomings in a timely manner. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposed solutions, which have been further developed before this stage of consideration, so that we fully agree with them and support them. We regret, however, that the drafting of the bill has not addressed the issue of local elections and also at the level of the national elections, more broadly, nor have they taken care to eliminate those anomalies that have not been subject to constitutional review and will continue to cause unnecessary conflicts. With regard to those issues which are not regulated by the elections under the Law on Local Elections, the provisions of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly shall apply and shall apply mutatis mutandis. Since, in a particular case, we cannot even refer to the Elections Act in the National Assembly, as this law also does not lay down any conditions or restrictions on the composition of the bodies of the electoral committees and their relationship to the current candidate, general reflection is also needed in order to supplement the Elections Act in the National Assembly. The Elections Act in the National Assembly will therefore continue to remain an unresolved issue for the members of the electoral commissions and the votes by post. Since the case of a found legal void regarding the regulation of the rules on postal voting by means of a proposal for the law under consideration is only regulated for local elections, we can also expect to see unnecessary complications in the national elections in the future, since, according to the Constitutional Court, such a legal void cannot be filled with an analogy of application, because it could lead to different interpretations of the same legal provision in the same cases, and also a certain relationship between the subsidiary application of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly for the needs of local elections and not vice versa. The proposed solutions for local elections should therefore be discussed as soon as possible within the framework of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, although this year's time is running out. However, we fully support the proposed law to address local elections issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u30	Good afternoon, Your Honor! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections has the code ZLV-H. I stop at the letter H. If we have witnessed yesterday and during any session of this mandate that we are regional laws, let alone in the field of the judiciary in one session be replaced by up to twice, three times, then we can safely say that in the field of the rules of the game, which are also determined by local elections or by national elections or by any other election, it is exactly the same. I am not opposed to reviving the Constitutional Court's decision to the law, of course not, far from it, because that is why we have the Constitutional Court. However, we are in the Lipa Group against changing regional laws with such light that customers of these laws, namely citizens and citizens, are no longer found. It was Amendment A, it was Amendment B, it was Amendment C, it was Amendment D, E, F, G and so on. Only in the field of the law on local elections. From this title, I would like to ask because, according to my information, there are still some pending decisions of the Constitutional Court, which touch on the law on local elections or elections in the area of micro or local elections. And I'm asking if in two months we're going to come up with a new amendment to the law and say, "This time we're going to be regulating this law by a decision of the Constitutional Court." And I'm asking whether this is because you have too much time and too little work and you're just looking for it within the departmental ministry, or what's the point of almost every session of the field legislation being adopted, and what's worse, it's changing. But it's not just the area of local self-government. Last but not least for the judiciary, as the President of the State, Mr Türk, warned yesterday. Or any other area. If a person follows our work and follows these letters, which mark only current changes, he might be appalled. Since the elections continued, as the minister said in the introduction, that in 2006, past local elections, the law has not changed for the first time, but has changed several times in between. I will not make an appeal, nor will I request no, perhaps only a request, if you are preparing a change of law for a reason or for that reason, so much more respect is worth it if, for the reason of the so-called Constitutional Court, you have to put all the changes in place once, not because Members have less work or you have less work, but in particular to make the users of this law more transparent. It happens in our country that in the National Assembly, where professionals are supposed to be the users of the law, it is difficult to come, so people who live for almost 24 hours on the matter of marriage that it is difficult to reach the form of the law that is in force. Because we have a law amending, amending, supplementing and so on. We have a variation from A to Z. I will not say that in the Lipa Group we will oppose two minor corrections, no matter how big the words on the amendments to the current amendments will be included in this law. But we would like a different approach, an approach to law-abiding users, not to be you or I get seven amendments to the same law a year. Despite all this, this is the area, especially given that there is something else in the field of the authorship of the Constitutional Court on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u32	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Vice-President of the National Assembly, government representatives! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled that the law on local elections was inconsistent with the Constitution, since it does not provide that members of the electoral committees could not be persons who are related to or related to the candidate. In paragraph 17, the legislator was thus ordered to remove the irregularities identified within one year, while the legislator should determine the circle, i.e., which, due to the related or similar circumstances, cannot be members of the electoral committees. The Constitutional Court has also ruled by a second decision that the law on local elections is inconsistent with the Constitution because it does not regulate the detailed rule on postal voting. The Court stressed that the elections are a process that must take place and be completed in a certain continuous period and that all tasks must therefore be carried out within specified time limits. In this way, the legal regime of the way of voting by post should take into account that, when determining the outcome of the vote by post, the electoral commission must have at its disposal a documentary document which can clearly establish the credibility of the results of the elections. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections is based on the principles of general and equal electoral rights as defined in Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the right to equal protection and Article 22 of the Constitution. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out that the proposed solution in Article 1 of the draft law, in their view, exceeds the requirement of the Constitutional Court’s decisions, as it provides for non-compatibilities of membership in electoral committees due to the related relations with any candidate in the municipality. Therefore, the coalition parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment to the parent working body, restricting the relative compatibility only to the electoral unit and listing the relatives of those who cannot be on the electoral committees. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law. In doing so, however, we must point out that Slovenia is the first country to introduce such a solution, only at the request of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I personally believe that the question is whether other human rights have been violated and whether the Constitutional Court has not made a mistake here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, and good day to all who are present in the Chamber. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the Local Elections Act, as there is nothing else left to do with the fact that it is changing on the basis of the Constitutional Court's judgment. We cannot say, however, that we are satisfied with such limited changes. The fact is, in past local elections, a number of issues have been raised that have not been dealt with by the Constitutional Court because they have not been subject to a constitutional review. However, it is an excuse for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to make changes to this law only on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, but all other problems that arise in relation to the law and will certainly also arise in the next local elections, and even earlier in the elections to the National Assembly, do not concern it and do not intend to eliminate them - such an excuse is ridiculous and unworthy of any serious treatment. Surely there is still an identical problem, such as the relation of the members of the electoral committees with candidates, including the composition of the electoral commissions. The question of competence to correct or re-evaluate the validity of votes on the electoral committee or alternatively on the electoral commission remains unresolved. It probably doesn't make sense that I'm listing other problems that have arisen during the last local elections, mainly because it has come, we can say that almost a mass appearance of very narrow electoral results. But it doesn't make sense to mention it, because there's not going to be any effect anyway. Here I could say that I agree with one of the predecessors who said that, as a dominoes, changing one and the same law; this law already has the H mark, which is, if I can correct it, the eighth and not the seventh amendments. That, I don't think it makes any sense anymore. The fact is that such incomprehensible explanations of insufficient and incomplete amendments to a law have not yet been heard, so we expect this government to prepare comprehensive amendments to electoral legislation, both for local elections and for elections in the provinces, where it has in any event repeated the same error that the Constitutional Court has already considered to be a constitutional breach, as well as, of course, elections to the National Assembly. Although she has had more than enough time, we do not understand what has been so difficult in this task since last spring that it has not been possible to produce decent and comprehensive changes to electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u36	Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am quite grateful to my forerunners who have picked up a few texts for me, but I would still like to draw attention to a matter that is in some way repugnant. The fact that the Law on Local Elections had to be taken into account in some way, regulated, taken into account all those cases that took place on the ground and which set out this issue had to be waited for by the Constitutional Court. When this correction was mandatory, it was possible to do so. This is likely to be the case with the Law on Elections in the National Assembly and in any other case. So, where there's no will, then we can say thank God we have a Constitutional Court. But this is a fundamental problem that I think Members of the National Assembly should be aware that in such matters, which have such direct impact on life, work and behaviour at local level in the municipalities, in the constituencies, we need to reverse that nameline of global thinking and local action. And we need to think very locally and then work at this global legal level. First, it is necessary to anticipate the consequences, to anticipate the complications of not writing things just like that and then to correct them there until the letter H. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections. Novela means this obligation to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It also means that there will be fewer or no more complications such as those in the Loka region, but others will be able to. Also with regard to the comments we had in the Liberal Democracy, the matter has now been settled and it is clear that it is a matter of reviewing, in a way, the filtering of candidates for electoral committees within the constituencies or constituencies, not within the municipalities. And that's how this thought is resolved. However, we still point out that this electoral legislation is likely to have to be well ventilated, that we will not, at first, continue to have problems with some new corrections, which does not only cause us to have a job in the National Assembly. In fact, it is the least important, but all those who struggle with it and these people are very much in Slovenia need to adapt again to the changes we are making here. So let's just say here that we have to think locally about what we'll know on the ground if we accept anything here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! The purpose of the proposed amendments to the Local Elections Act is to bring the provisions of that Act in line with the two Constitutional Court rulings that have emerged as a result of complaints following the last local elections. In its decisions, the Constitutional Court ordered the legislator to establish in law the composition of the electoral committees in such a way that a member of the electoral committees cannot be a person who is in a relative and similar relationship with candidates. This would eliminate circumstances that would call into question its bias, but more precisely to determine the outcome of the post elections. In the proposal for a law, the Government proposed that a member of the electoral committee in the municipality could not be a person who, by any means with a candidate in relation to a type and by-product type up to including a second knee, his adoptor or adopter, or who is married or living in a non-marital community or registered same-sex partnership. In the coalition's parliamentary groups, we have drafted an amendment for consideration in the second reading, and the Committee on Local Self-Government has adopted that, in order to facilitate the conduct of the elections, the related link between the electoral committee and the candidate should be limited to the closest relatives, and that this should be limited only to the electoral unit in which the candidate is running and not to the level of the entire municipality. In the New Slovenia Group we also support more detailed provisions on voting by post. For the timely acceptance of the ballots, those having a stamp shall be considered, that is to say, they must be physically submitted to the post office, or the envelopes must be accompanied by the documents showing the date of their transmission to the post office. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendments to the law, as we are convinced that electoral legislation itself, as well as the elections and the vote, must be prepared in such a way that there is no doubt about the regularity and fairness of the elections among voters and candidates. Finally, yesterday in the National Assembly, the President of the State reminded us that it would be imperative to resolve all those laws that are contrary to the Constitution or the decisions of the Constitutional Court. So we must commend Minister Zhagar on today's proposal for harmonisation. As we know, we will also consider at the next meeting the amendment of the Law on the Financing of Communities due to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the amended bill today in the framework of the vote, which is five minutes after the end of item 1 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law to supplement the law on the implementation of R & D activities under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mrs Majda Širca. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all present in this hall. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and People with Disabilities of the National Assembly considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the implementation of the parental activity submitted by Mrs Majda Širca at its 36th regular meeting on 4 this month. The Committee was attended by a proposaler, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and representatives of the Association of Powers and the Maribor Family Club were present. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, pointed out that it would indicate the proposed obligation of social work centres to bind to existing institutions of care, since the introduction of the derogation could constitute a new possibility of the fostering relationship, which is probably not the intention of the proposer, would indicate the obligation of the centres to refer to the applicable forms of the end of the fostering relationship. The government opposes the bill. Nor does the bill support the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which considered the proposed supplement to be insufficiently professionally justified. After a brief discussion, which dominated the opinion that the proposed obligation of centres to bind to existing institutions of care was proposed, an amendment was proposed, as an amendment to the committee, which the Committee had not adopted. At the same time, the representative of the Government stressed that fostering is a form of protection for minors and that compulsory reproductive roles are not known in other countries after age. However, according to its assurances, the implementation of fostering activities and the transfer to another family for limited foster parents, subject to the consent of the family and the foster father, may also be subject to the applicable legislation. On these grounds, the Committee decided on the basis of Article 128(2) on the procedural decision given to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law was not a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the bill's proposer, Mrs Majdi Širca, to present my views on the proposal of the mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear, good-bye. Allow me to present once again the defense of the submitted novel, which I would like to justify not being too professionally based a proposal, but a proposal that follows a practice that is sufficiently well founded, because life is living and sometimes in different flows than paper. Remember, two years ago, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons addressed quite a few open issues relating to the implementation of foster care. In the debate, it was clear that with our foster care in Slovenia, not everything is in the best order, as has been highlighted several times, in fact, constantly speaking when the government advocates its legal regime. Well, from those conclusions we adopted at the time, if the government were to make appropriate changes, nothing happened, and so NGOs raise additional questions every day. The government, however, remains calm and satisfied. However, we have recently faced some experience that has led us in Zares to amend the law on the implementation of fostering activities, and in fact gave an impetus to the fact that you now have this proposal on the table. It is a matter of saving the status of the children and the caregivers after the age of 18. As a result of the decision of the Centre for Social Work to lose the right to a foster father, we were reminded, if you recall, of the case of a young woman named Ramzia Hajrizi, who lost her right to a foster care provider as a result of disagreements. Although the girl continued her schooling at the High School of Health and the Centre for Social Work could assign her a new foster father, so the law ruled that this was not necessary, even though she was on the road overnight, without the means of survival. It is this case that he has pointed out to us the unacceptable and even irregular arrangements, even unfairly for a group of children or adolescents. That is why we have proposed that we eliminate this distinction in a way that clearly states in the law that the Centre for Social Work must assign a foster child or foster child in the event of a break in foster care to a new foster family. The interruption is for such and other reasons, but it must come to a surrogate or other foster family if the foster parent continues to study after the age of 18. The current law provides that the centre may assign a new family, which means that it does not necessarily have to be granted. I want the foster parents, if they continue to study after 18 years of age, not to lose their foster family and therefore not to be in a deprived position. In fact, the parents of children who live in orderly, for example, families, are obliged to provide and support, such as the constitution, their children, if they continue their regular schooling, they say, until the age of 28. In the case of foster parents, a state, such as a temporary, surrogate mother, is not obliged or is only conditionally obliged to take care of the foster parents in an appropriate manner. In accordance with the Constitution and also with the international conventions, I do not think we should make differences in rights between each other. This is said among those who have a well - arranged or well - arranged family situation and who can live and live with their parents or their parents still support and help them and offer them a home and those who do not. The law now in force represents the possibility and not the right of a guardian to remain in the foster family. And for the benefit of a foster child, right is essential. And in this sense, we would like you to listen to this tiny correction and follow our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mrs. Romana Tomc, Secretary of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you. Well-welcome, distinguished Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as already mentioned, does not support these additions to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities. Care is a form of family-law protection for minors and is regulated by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, while the Law on the implementation of foster care only provides more precisely for the role and task of all those involved in fostering. Matrimonial care is a form of family-law protection for minors, i.e. persons under 18 years of age. Nevertheless, as has already been said, the centre for social work may extend the validity of the foster care contract even after the full age of the foster parent, which can happen in two cases: if the child is unable to live and work on his own because of physical or mental disabilities, or if the child remains in the foster family because of the continuation of schooling, of course if the foster parent agrees to do so. According to the latest data, there are 1186 foster parents and foster parents in Slovenia, of whom 270 have been extended the maintenance contract even after full age due to the continuation of schooling. According to the proposed supplement, however, the centre is obliged to find a foster child in the event of a break in the foster care, a new foster family. In the case of seniors, it is a key professional opinion that it is beneficial for a full - time schooler to stay in a foster home. In these cases, however, it is not the right of an adult to such institutional protection, nor is it the purpose of the foster care to provide a source of income to support a person, a parent or a foster child. In the event that this does not have sufficient means of survival, rights are guaranteed for these cases under the existing social protection system, including the possibility of obtaining a Republic grant, a child allowance, cash social assistance and other allowances. The work in the field of fostering is the work of the team and cannot be based on a unilateral request from an individual without taking professional arguments into account. Once again, we stress that it is possible to transfer a full-year resident into another foster family in the existing system. For these reasons, the Government does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thanks again. We have heard an explanation from the government that it is possible already under the existing system for a foster child to be assigned to another foster family. But we've also heard a case where, despite the fact that it's possible, it didn't happen. This is said to be a mistake or some imperfection that creates inequality between the parents and the caregivers of visas to others. In our comments on this novel, we have also heard many times that the locals have their parents and that they care for them. True, parents do, but if for any reason or other, I am not going to tell them that there are large pallets, or foster care would not be for parents to move away and leave their children for a certain period of time to be raised and reared by others, then that means they need to be physically and emotionally, not only materially, not helpful. Children who remain in foster care after the age of 18 are in school, as many as 267. And we would like there to be more than 1,180, because education is a great condition that the problems they have may be saved in the future in life. It is therefore right to align their rights with the rights of children that parents do not leave behind. The ministry also says that the search for justice, as we propose or equality, could lead to the exploitation of fostering activities. We are very opposed to such an interpretation. Such an argument is certainly empty or I understand it more than an alibi than anything else. The Ministry understands our proposal, and it has been noted from several discussions, as well as explanations, as a desire to provide a source of income for the resident to live with during school. And he says that this resource can be given to him by others, it's a real scholarship, dormitory, priority and other aid. In short, our proposal, as I see it, does not take equality as a solution to the differences between young people who have a situation in order and those who do not have an orderly situation in which they grow up and are also shaped. Nor do we talk about a foster child becoming a new parent after eighteen years of age if his previous contract fails. That's not true either. The Ministry simply cannot from its own skin and also from the board that our care system is a suitable and good example of good practices. But if that were true, there would not be any new and new proposals coming to the table today, or just these days, to amend the law on foster care, which regulate the many inconsistencies of the procedure for selecting foster families, the inappropriateness of contracts, for example, when establishing this relationship and reiterating poor records, information flows, databases and not always the proper work of social centres. But apparently this chapter will open once in the future. We were trying to fix some bit, so we just amended this bill because practice has warned us that something is wrong. If the system in Slovenia were really as exemplary as we hear many times, and the country, I will say, a truly exemplary, temporary surrogate mother, then also the percentage of children who still need a foster family after 18 years would not be so high. In fact, what you all say would happen is that it should happen, that this parental service or training should be very limited for a certain period of time, and that after eighteen years, the key problems that arise between a child and a parent, which are why parents choose to put their children in foster care, have been healed, cured, and cured. In short, we tried. Nobody understood this experiment well enough, as I can see, whether at least the government did not understand it in part. We are sorry, and I see that in the future it will be necessary to put much more effort into this law to make it better than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Otherwise, I miss a little more than those Members whose holiness is the family. There's quite a few of us here when we're dealing with this today. But, well, in Slovenia we have already adopted the Law on the implementation of fostering activities in 2002, and the fact is that this is a supplement given by Mrs Majda Širc, meaningfully and in the Slovenian National Party we will also support this. It is true that fostering is an institution of family law and is regulated by the Law on Marriage and Family Conditions as a special form of child protection that is necessary. Parents too often fail to fulfill this responsibility, as is evident in all of these children who have been given parental care. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, children enjoy special protection and care, especially the necessary protection for children and minors whose parents do not care. And it's these parents that are pretty much in Slovenia. I would like to draw attention to the group that you deliberately forget, these are also Roma present in Slovenia. And it is in these kinds that parents cannot properly care for their children. Many times these children are used not to speak, put before the law of the street, they must beg, they are exposed to prostitution, they are exposed to early reporting, but this country is not interested. We say it's their culture. Parents or legal representatives are obliged to take care of the child’s upbringing and development, according to the law now in force, until they are of age, unless the schooling continues. And this law systematically regulates precisely this in foster care activities in order to provide that the centre for social work can extend the validity of the foster contract even after the full age of the foster parent in two cases. And these two cases are very important, so I think that this comment by the Government or the Government would be completely inappropriate if the Government were to take a deep look at the fact that a child with a disability in physical and mental development is not capable of living and working alone. If the Government had known that, then it would have taken this supplement into account and would not have accepted or expressed such a position as it did, in the view of the Government, that this supplement was not necessary. Directly a two-faced, kind of two-faced attitude and a view of constitutional regulation, article 2 states that we are a social state and also says that we must follow the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Is that equality before the law? I don't think so. We have already heard the case that some, when they reach adulthood, are simply put on the street. This is not in favour of a country that is declared highly developed and says it also has a budgetary surplus. I believe that there is currently enough room for 134 single foster families to break this gap, or to fill this post-work or supplemental work, and that the Government can't argue that there are, in saying, "sufficient capacities", if I may say so. A little ugly, but still. Today, 1,189 children are placed in foster care. Of these, 345 children are placed in families with a relative relationship. As has already been said, 134 foster families still have opportunities to take these children into their care. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The government's opinion that marriage is unnecessary, even from this point of view, I don't understand. [[...]] Of course, we will support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u50	Good-bye! The implementation of fostering activities in Slovenia is based on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which contains a provision on the purpose of fostering and on the decision of the Centre for Social Work on the placement of the child in the foster family. Details, i.e. the conditions to be met by the person wishing to carry out the maintenance activity, the procedure for obtaining authorisation to carry out this activity, the method of carrying out and financing the maintenance activity, and everything else, are governed by the law on the performance of the breeding activity. According to the United Nations Convention, a child is a person under the age of 18 and our Constitution enjoys special protection and care, especially for children and adolescents whose parents do not care for parents who do not have parents or who are without adequate family care. Parents or representatives are obliged to take care of the child’s upbringing and development until they are of age, unless the child continues to be educated. The same is true for the care of the child in the foster family until the full age of the child, but it may be extended in two cases: if the child is unable to live or work on his own due to physical and mental disorders, or if he remains in the foster family for the continuation of the education, and if he agrees to do so until the age of 26 at the latest. This allows the 40th Article of the current law, which states: "If a foster child remains in a foster family after 18 years of age due to the continuation of schooling, it is the duty of the centre to find, before the renewal of the foster care contract in accordance with this law, that the foster parent and the foster father continue to stay in the foster family for the benefit of the foster parent." According to data, 1,180 children are in foster care, of which 267 and 22.6% are in foster care and are over 18 years of age. We believe that the issue is adequately resolved in the current law, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we will not support or vote in favour of the proposal to supplement the law on the implementation of the parental activity introduced by Ambassador Majda Širc, that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We continue to listen to how the opposition can successfully address some of the shortcomings of the existing legislation, but it is so inactive that it does not use these options. You have before you a bill tabled by the opposition parliamentary group, and there is repeated justification - because it is a good purpose, but we will not do so. In the Group of Social Democrats, we take into account the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service or some of the necessary additions that the representatives of the Government have pointed out, but this is not the reason why any well-intentioned change that could eliminate any particular weakness would be rejected. Therefore, the social democrats will not oppose this bill because we believe that it could be corrected by a supplement in this work so as to be acceptable. The Legislative and Legal Service also has a proposed amendment which establishes the obligation of the Centre for Social Work to find a new foster family for a child who continues to attend school after the age of 18 if his or her foster family refuses to stay. The obligation of the Centre for Social Work to find a new foster family in such a case is not explicitly established. However, this obligation is based on the fact that the current regime allows for the continuation of fostering if, of course, all conditions are met. These are: regular schooling, foster care benefits, and his consent. Indeed, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the proposed obligation of the Centre for Social Work to bind to existing institutions of foster care, namely, both laws governing fostering, and these two do not regulate the rejection of foster care, but rather the possibility of cancellation, divorce and situations where the foster care provider does not extend any new obligation to do so. From a legal point of view, this weakness, which is in marriage, could be remedied, but there was no real will for it. It is true, however, that the Social Democrats believe that the law on fostering activities governs fairly well at systemic level, but it is not true that everything is so well arranged that it is not possible to improve matters by some interference with the law. That is why we also listened to a member of the Family Care Club on the committee, who warned us that the two situations in which the resident continues to attend school are not well regulated in the law. These are just two cases that point to this part. It is a case where the resident has the status of an extraordinary student, not a regular student, but we know how it is with the status of an extraordinary student, sometimes it is linked to the inability to join a regular program and the resident cannot exercise the right to continue the schooling. Or, say, when a relative pauses, that is not taken into account. Two of these options, which are for those children or adolescents, are arranged when these adolescents live in a biological family, are arranged and not for the locals. And yet it would suggest that we think about these warnings and many others that foster families have, as well as the locals themselves or the professionals, in order to seek or manage these things in the Law of Nursing, so that those children and adolescents who cannot live in their home families are equal to those who are not deprived of this privilege. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u54	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! When amending the law on reproductive activities, this idea would in fact be easily adopted if, of course, it did not complicate certain other matters. Nevertheless, the aim of fostering should be the efforts of all, both the competent authorities and the people involved, to address the reasons why the child was placed in foster care. Therefore, this concept of fostering is also defined in some way as a temporary measure. In Slovenia, unfortunately, data shows that this is changing into long-term fostering, of course for many reasons that we can put just under the common denominator of social reasons. Social work centres may also do little in this direction, because in some ways the matter is solved for them at least on the surface if they allow the child to be reared. It is also possible to extend existing legislation. According to the data, it's already more than 25%. The proposal ahead of us changes the concept of fostering into a financial concept, survives the foster parents, but this is contrary to what we usually think and even contradict the law that parents are committed to and not foster parents. At the time of the consideration of this law, it was also demonstrated in the debate that it was worth noting that some aspects of fostering could be changed in the future, which is why in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and, above all, in the parliamentary club, we think it would be good to set the conditions for breeders more precisely. In addition to the above, we should, however, check the entire situation of the family, the age of the foster parents, the health condition, the living conditions, the education, then correct the certainly recognised material costs for the foster parents, but today they are too low and are not enough to cover the basic costs. We should also strive to return the children to their parents or adopt them in a period of time, perhaps three or four years, says that this drifting uncertainty would break. If we cannot do so, we will have to define the concept of long-term care and not blind ourselves to a short-term measure. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mag. Janez Drobnič, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u56	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The system of parenting activities in Slovenia is properly regulated, although we hear many criticisms at the expense of this, but life is like this. Such a good legal framework is sometimes not enough for life to be arranged the way we want it to be. Maternal care is primarily the provision of suitable families, alternative families in the case of biological families, biological parents do not play their parental roles to the extent and role required, or if children do not have their biological parents. And in these cases, children gain experience of acceptance, love, and safe home, which they still need in creating a quality life and building a family of their own. Regarding foster care in Slovenia is provided in an appropriate way both for those children under 18 years of age and for those who need care after 18 years of age. The amendment seeks to regulate fostering differently after the age of eighteen. We must be aware that in this case, after eighteen years of age, we have a foster family, which is independent, deciding whether or not to adopt a foster parent, and on the other hand a child who has reached the age of eighteen and is old enough to decide whether or not to live in such a relationship. In those cases where it is necessary to provide care from a professional point of view, the institution of the current law allows such a child to be nursed. So with a proposal like this, we would change the regime and the system of fostering after eighteen years of age. These changes are not sufficiently professionally justified or unnecessary. If we are not satisfied with something yet, this does not mean that any proposal made, even in good faith, has been put in place. Therefore, the proposal for a new law on fostering activities will not be supported by the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, five minutes after the end of the first item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this day-to-day thing. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONCERN THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATIVE RELATIONSHIP AND SOCIAL SIZES, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that the proposal for a law or amendment to the Marriage and Family Relations Act has received support from the mother's labour force. I hope that such an attitude will prevail today. In fact, it is a small change concerning the law itself, an addition under Article 132a of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which deals with the coordination of maintenance with the exclusional title of certain dependents. In doing so, I would like to point out that, if we have been able to take into account or to seek the assistance of those who were most affected in 2007 by the new way of coordinating the various transfers, if we have been able to jump to help, not least, the pensioners who have been affected by the single system of coordination of transfers or widow's pensions, then I believe that we can do this step also in the area of subsistence or, firstly, children. Children are those who are largely entitled to maintenance. At the same time, I would like to remind you or perhaps remind you that the data shows that there are 47,000 children in our country who are already facing poverty. And I believe that you know that this can have long-term consequences for the health of these children, so that it can also have long-term consequences for the economic situation of our country if you want. I will say that it is more than a mere substantive change within the framework of the law proposed by the Lipa Group. It is not least the impact on collective consciousness. If we support the proposed amendment of the law, which speaks only of the fact that maintenance is valorized or coordinated not once a year, such as the proposal or the legislation so far, but that maintenance is coordinated twice a year, every six months, which is undoubtedly a good step in the fact that our country still faces high inflation, that we still face the stresses of the most pressing necessities of life every day. I have data, in 2007 there are basic necessities of life, I'm talking about nutrition, I'm not going to touch electricity, I'm going to touch food, I'm going to raise 40%. And the fact remains that single parent families are those of families that belong in this category or in 132nd Article of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, that single parent families are the same category in our country, which is suppressed at the social edge, that they are the most affected or poor if you want to in other words. As has already been said, I hope and believe that we will get your support and jump to help children, and finally our country is still a social state under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is even written that the state is the one who treats his laws or tries to act in the first place for the benefit of the child. I believe that the vast majority agree with me that 66 euros, in terms of the average subsistence or maintenance allowance paid by the guarantee fund in cases where parents fail to fulfil their obligation, is an amount that does not allow a child to have a self-sustaining and dignified survival. 66 euros is the amount, and I believe that any euro that can be added to the additional valorisation will come to the children who receive 66 euros a month. That is why, as I have already said, I am asking you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and People with Disabilities of the National Assembly considered this proposal at its 36th regular meeting on 4th this month. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš, representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Romana Tomc, and Mrs Lenč Arko Fabjan, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, participated in the work of the Committee. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal of the law in terms of compliance with the constitutional and legal system and does not have specific comments from the legislative and technical point of view and on constitutional or legal system compliance. It noted, however, the explanation of the bill, where there are no specific reasons why the established system of coordination, which is uniform for all beneficiaries of maintenance, will be amended to distinguish between groups of beneficiaries. In her view, this distinction should be clarified from the point of view of Article 14 of the Constitution, which was also further presented at the meeting of the Committee itself. No amendments were tabled to the bill. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 of the bill was proposed and adopted. The debate raised the issue of stating that the proposal does not have a negative impact on the budget, and what it does to the beneficiaries. Some discussers supported the bill's proposal because they felt that it was necessary to adjust the way in which maintenance was coordinated precisely because of the high inflation and its negative effects. It was pointed out that the country was obliged to step in to help the weaker. Statistics show that single-parent families are socially more at risk, so it is necessary to pursue the benefit of children and to guarantee and protect their rights also on the basis of maintenance. According to the representative of the Government or the State Secretary, the effectiveness of the recovery of the maintenance fund is above average compared to other European countries. Nevertheless, some of the nutrients are only never wiped out and this would have an impact on the budget. In the opinion of some discussers, these are minimum costs, as it is the duty of the State to recover maintenance as well. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee has adopted its amendment, which is incorporated into Article 1 of the amended law which is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for an introductory explanation. Mrs. Romana Tomc, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u62	Respectable. The Marriage and Family Relations Act provides that maintenance is aligned once a year with the Life Needs Index in the Republic of Slovenia. The harmonisation shall take place in March, taking into account the cumulative increase in the prices of living needs from the month from which the maintenance was last determined or coordinated. Maintenance shall be determined in the monthly amount and in the future and may be required from the moment the claim for maintenance has been lodged. The Court may increase, reduce or eliminate maintenance if the needs of the beneficiary or the ability of the debtor on the basis of which that maintenance has been determined change. Of course, determining the level of maintenance that is determined or agreed on according to the needs of the child and at the same time taking into account the ability of the parents is of key importance in all of this for the child’s survival. However, the purpose of this law is, not to determine the level of maintenance, but to preserve only its real value, which is set elsewhere in the executive title. The proposed amendment should change the way the coordination is carried out twice a year - March as it has been so far, and additionally once again in September of the current year. As it is said, the existing way of coordinating nutrients based on the consumer price index is clear and comparable to the coordination of transfers paid by the State. Each year's coordination shall take into account the month in which the maintenance was determined and the corresponding index of prices of living necessities, which shall be chained in accordance with the overall maintenance coordination period. The basic guide pursued by the law is to maintain the level of maintenance for the benefit of children and to ensure and protect their survival rights. In addition, it is essential to stress that the State has provided adequate protection for children or legal representatives in cases where the maintenance debtor does not pay the maintenance fee. In such cases, maintenance is paid by the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and is subject to the same mode of coordination as maintenance paid by the debtors. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the key issue of maintenance height is the determination of its height, at the executive address, while coordination, as in force under existing regulation, is transparent and allows the maintenance of the real value of maintenance. Therefore, the Government does not support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill amends or adapts the way in which nutrients are coordinated, which in our view is right and therefore we support the proposer. If we actually look at extremely low child support, which does not allow children a decent life, we can see that up to €20 indigestion has 472 children, up to €40 in 2.242, up to €60 in €6.163, 80 in children receives 10,000 children, not to mention the highest maintenance rate, not to mention all of them, which is about €400, these children are only 146. Therefore, the primary purpose is to improve the quality of life of children. And I don't think that with the amounts I have just counted, it's really impossible to guarantee that if we consider that single mothers too often, because of the disagreement in the family, there was a divorce. It is therefore an appropriate arrangement in the area of a certain level of maintenance, which must be coordinated twice a year. Once a year, given the inflation that children are not at fault for, it's not the right way to do it. See, if we walk through the data provided by the Centre for Social Work, the maintenance for which the parents agreed to an agreement at the centre is mostly up to €90. The average maintenance under the settlement is €105. And if we're talking about the average maintenance that someone has to pay with an enforceable notary record, it's about 80 euros. These are very low amounts. I think the state's relationship is also showing, I'm talking in billions, 5.7 billion unrecovered nutrients, if we convert it into euros, we get hundreds of millions. And the Ministry of Finance responds to the proposal that they should recover maintenance with a physical scope, unacceptable, because they only recover incomes which are a compulsory part and a component of the budget. You can think! And this is said by the minister who is supposed to take care of his family, and is supposed to be his family's holiness. For me, this is very low and immoral. On the one hand, the Government is broad-minded to ensure that social imbalances are settled in the country and, on the other hand, it responds to the well-intentioned proposals, as we have heard from the representative of the Government, negatively. I just don't think there's anything in this proposal that we can't confirm or anything that we can't say is positive today. It's a family, it's a family, it's for children who aren't at fault if their parents have decided on a separate life course. I think that the country should also be concerned about the social security of these children, because this is in some way also the duty of the State. In short, greater consistency I recommend, a distinguished representative of the government. Maintenance recovery is necessary and I would ask you to make sure that your parents receive this money. And on the other hand, this correction, which dictates double coordination per year, is in some ways necessary. Thank you very much. We will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the home work body, the amendment corrected those doubts raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This was abolished in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service. Therefore, the law is not disputed in terms of the constitutionality of our country. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that this government has adopted amendments to the law and adopted a new dictatorship or way of coordinating maintenance once a year in March with rising prices of living needs. The explanation states that such a legal dictatorship has been adopted for the purpose of defusing inflation in the past. This means that because of 6.4% of inflation at annual level in 2007, and this inflation is still growing today, such a dictatorship that is in force today is no longer a reality. And if the ministry, which should care for social affairs, hopes to say that the matter is real and good today, then something is wrong with this ministry, because it does not work in the interests of citizens and citizens, but works in the interest of the government's "spar" social programme, which is bad, respected colleagues and colleagues. On the other hand, I would like to remind you or remind you that this is a law that does not provide additional financial resources for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because the dependents are largely parents, in some cases also children who are legally obliged to take care of their parents if they do not have their own means of survival. Parents are obliged to provide and support their child, to support him, I apologize. EUR 66.88 is the average subsistence allowance paid by the maintenance fund. I have been in agreement or in cooperation with the Maintenance and Guarantee Fund. This is the fund that pays maintenance allowances in cases where parents fail to meet their legal obligations. In 2007, 1,900 proposals for recovery were made. 42% was the effectiveness of this fund, it is said that the fund recovered its livelihoods from the debtors, meaning, in other words, that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs at some point even referred to the possibility of excessive obligations on the budget for our country. On the basis of the numbers I have told you, these are the figures from the guarantee and maintenance fund, the payment of the maintenance allowance may give rise to new financial obligations on the part of the State or the guarantee and maintenance fund, only in the amount of less than €4,000, respected colleagues and colleagues, at the annual level, I say less than €4,000. Is this really such a financial resource for our country that it is not able to go any closer and help children who also receive 20 euros in subsistence allowance? I ask you once again to support a bill that is well-intentioned, which is also a reflection of reality. And this reality is high inflation in our country. This reality is a reflection of the prices of the most pressing necessities of life. This reality, respected colleagues and colleagues, is an increasing poverty between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and increasing poverty among children. I've already spoken the information. 47 children face poverty in our country. If we have the power and legislation to help these children, then it is our responsibility, our moral commitment to do so. The law won't hurt anyone, at least the state budget. But I believe he'll be helping a lot of kids. Thank you very much. And once again, I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a new law on marriage and family relations, according to the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš, stems from the point of view that single-parent families are subjected to the greatest inflationary and other financial pressures. Therefore, according to the applicants, a correction is needed in the area of maintenance, which would not only be coordinated once a year but also once again in September. This, of course, could be agreed on in principle, but it is also necessary to behave responsibly to such changes, even if we know, and if we come from the point of view, that the Government has made significant improvements in order to improve the social status of families. Let me mention something. Firstly, the appropriateness of coordination of transfers. In this mandate, we have made great progress in implementing a uniform, transparent and, above all, all users of social transfers of an equal and fairer system of both coordination and the setting of transfers. Such a definition of a single system certainly brings more understandable and fairer solutions to citizens. Secondly, we have adopted an amendment to the law on parental protection and family benefits. In order to provide special care and care for children, which is visible in many areas of the Government's work, we have increased the level of the child allowance by 8.4%, which means that the Government has allocated 30 million euros for children's allowances for almost 400 thousand beneficiaries and will devote a few more resources in the next year to take into account the indices of the cost of living. With this family, we have added some additional financial resources to their family budget. In this mandate, we have also adopted an amendment to the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, desiring that in many cases the State will provide or provide maintenance funds in cases where there are no subsistence payments due to different situations. Let me just give you a few details. The Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia submitted 438 maintenance claims for 594 children in 2007. 496 decisions were issued for 662 children. The right to a maintenance allowance was granted to 575 children. The average amount of maintenance allowance paid in December 2007 was 70.23 euros. In 2007, the Fund paid a total of €2 million for maintenance. In the SDS Group, we believe that it is crucial to raise the material position of the maintenance beneficiary, in particular, to determine the level of maintenance, which cannot be determined in any law, but, above all, the main and key role played by the judiciary. However, the signatories and many members of the opposition are opposed to certain solutions in the field of justice and lawyers, which in our view could improve the speed and quality of the resolution of cases, and consequently lead to the resolution of the social pressures of single mothers and children. Let me just remind you of how many problems and problems you had in the opposition, for example, by adopting a criminal code, as well as other laws in the field of justice, which actually improve and, above all, protect the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, more could always be done about the social status of individuals and families. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the measures taken by the Government in this area are fundamentally improving the situation. Because of all the positive changes mentioned above, which improve the social situation of families, including those of single parents, we will not support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the Social Democrats on the complementary proposal to amend the law on marriage and family relations, and I apologize in advance to all those who will be deprived of the euphoric emphasis on the great merits of the current government, because it is necessary to say that the guarantee and maintenance fund in this country has been in place since 1998, so this is not the credit of this government and this coalition. And that, in fact, an important step forward in ensuring payment of maintenance has also been achieved in the previous mandate, when we considered the non-payment of maintenance an act to be sanctioned. Of course, it is regrettable for the Social Democrats that such cases occur when parents fail to see that their child must be taken care of at least on a material basis if he is already deprived of the possibility or right to live with both parents. But the third thing has to be added - subsistence is not a social transfer. Maintenance is the payment of the absence of one parent in the upbringing and operation of the family. And the fact is that, according to all the indicators, single - parent families are the most vulnerable groups of the population, in addition to, of course, single - parent households of old age and, of course, we must not silence them, including families with many children. And if we really had a lot of attention in this country for people's everyday concerns, then we'd be willing to support small changes, and we'd vote for yesterday's law that would slightly improve the status of widows after military insurers. But no. For this reason, the Social Democrats cannot, in fact, attach to the opinion of the Government, which reads as follows: "The basic guide pursued by the Government is certainly the benefit of children and the guarantee and protection of their survival rights." If this were to be done, then we would certainly support the coordination of maintenance twice a year, as this is better for children with increased inflation than coordination once a year. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also believes that it is essential to determine the level of maintenance for the material position of the maintenance beneficiary, which is in the domain of the executive address and not in the ministry. We agree with that. However, the Government's task is to maintain the real value of certain or agreed nutrients, which will continue to implement in accordance with the provisions of existing legislation. However, it is no longer possible to agree on this because ensuring the real value of maintenance on a one-year basis and with increased inflation does not hold a serious assessment. And we are resisting this by the Social Democrats, so we will support the proposal signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš for a different way of coordinating livelihoods. In doing so, we stress once again that we agree that we should also do something to ensure that the determination of the level of subsistence actually better covers the necessary children who live with only one parent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u72	Dear fellows and fellows! Mr President, Secretary of State! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the intention to adapt the way in which maintenance is coordinated due to high inflation and the negative effects, and also to allow children to have guaranteed and protected maintenance rights. Maintenance is, of course, not tied to the country. The country here is the one that kind of sets the framework for maintenance. And it certainly is a kind of father and mother, but it does not live with a child who regularly pays for these dependents, and probably more than the court has given them. But there is still another category of children who do not receive such parental attention after the breakup of the family. And get less or get nothing. Of course, this is not replaced by the state, but only by this "baffer", says with some fund, is prevented from making these payments unreliable and, of course, then recovers them, can recover them, must recover from those who are obliged to pay the maintenance. If he doesn't do it, we'll say it, we can just say it - it's their business. But it's not. This is tax money, and the State and its institutions must also be required to carry out their work. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the proposer, substantiates the amendment of the law with increasing inflation and proposes that the country, through legal proceedings, better regulate the area of determining the level of maintenance. In order not to harmonise once a year, March, but to harmonise once again in September. We think that's right. With so much inflation and nothing to show that anything is going to be lower, the law certainly makes sense. Although we had some comments on the working body, they were removed by amendments, so the marriage was easy and with joy of supporting. Of course, we would like to see that it would not be necessary for parents to fulfill their responsibilities even after the family has broken up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Petty Officer, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u74	Dear Members and Members! The proposed legislation seeks to ensure dual coordination of maintenance in the Republic of Slovenia and thus allegedly improve the situation of the beneficiaries of maintenance, in particular children and other dependent members. The applicant already states in his explanation that the adoption of this law will have no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Taking into account that the guarantee and maintenance fund is obliged to settle obligations for unpaid maintenance there somewhere around 60%, this can result in the fact that this bill does not actually have any effect. That it doesn't have any effects. And why, then, do we need to change the law and change the way we valorize nutrients if not for those who are most in need of maintenance, positive effects that would make life better? That's a fact. Or this additional explanation is that the effects will be, I don't know if it has been said or not, about 3,000 euros. These are, in fact, effects which are less than the costs of this half-track debate. Then why are you changing the valorisation that is uniform in Slovenia? Valorisation that takes into account inflationary movements. At the end of the day, coordination will be the same. If we were already doing, say, a consistent consideration of the valorisation of costs, because inflation is relatively high, 6.2 or 6.3%, we could opt for another system. When inflation increases by 2%, all maintenance and social assistance are automatically raised. It's either 3% or something, or it's monthly. The Maintenance Fund is obliged to provide maintenance to those entitled to maintenance, but those who are obliged to provide maintenance do not do so because they seek to avoid this and to place these obligations in the country. It is therefore important to ensure a better judicial system in improving the situation of either children or other persons, since it would be a more uniform and more justified model for determining the level of subsistence to ensure the decent life of children or other members. Second, to ensure a more successful recovery of nutrients than those due to implement, not only in 40% or 20%, but also in 100%, although this may be almost unattainable, however. That must be our goal. Since this amendment does not touch on these two key issues, namely the functioning of courts and the enforcement of maintenance payments, it is unnecessary and inappropriate. As I have already said, the benefits of all this law will be lower than the costs of this half-track debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, 5 minutes after the end of the 1st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is the second defence proposal for the Arbitration Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, we are looking at a proposal for an arbitration law aimed at regulating the arbitration procedure. Arbitration as one of the forms of alternative dispute resolution is the response to new challenges to how to reduce the burden of the courts. It is precisely the latter that causes problems for citizens and economic operators who cannot fully exercise their right to a trial within a reasonable period of time due to judicial failure. In yesterday's presentation of his views here in the National Assembly, the President of the State, Mr Danilo Türk, also highlighted the need to regulate alternative mechanisms for resolving disputes between parties. Arbitration is also present as a means of decommissioning state courts, as it provides the parties with an effective way to resolve the dispute and, above all, its role is important in resolving the most complex disputes. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice are aware of the importance of legal standardisation of alternative dispute resolution, and a proposal for a law on mediation on civil and commercial matters has been tabled in addition to the law under consideration today, which will be discussed at your next meeting of the National Assembly. The proposed Arbitration Act follows trends in the modern development of arbitration and summarises the basic origins of international legal acts, both the United Nations International Trade Law Model Law Units on International Commercial Arbitration of 21 June 1985, the Model Law on International Trade Conciliation of 2003 and the Convention Rules. The main objective of the proposed legislation is to regulate arbitration in a single law. According to the proposed regulation, the legal rules can be applied irrespective of the content and the parties to the dispute. So also for disputes in non-economic relations and internal disputes between domestic parties without an international element. By concluding a written arbitration agreement, the parties may submit to the arbitration panel any or certain disputes already arising between them or which may arise in connection with a particular contractual or non-contractual legal relationship. In terms of arbitration, any form of arbitration procedure shall be considered irrespective of whether it takes place before a permanent or temporary body. In the agreement, the parties shall also lay down the basic rules of the procedure itself. The procedure shall be completed by issuing an arbitral decision which, by legal effect, is equivalent to a judicial judgment. We must not miss any opportunity to improve the old and introduce new forms of dispute resolution, since, despite some success, we cannot claim that our citizens and legal persons, economic operators, are guaranteed to resolve disputes within a reasonable time. Marriage interventions are also necessary, but of course they are not enough. In the end, however, the knowledge of judges, arbitrators and all those involved in these proceedings will be the most important guarantee of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Drag Koren to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you, President, for your word. Good day to you, Members of Parliament and representatives of the Ministry! At its 43rd meeting, on 8.4.2008, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on arbitration submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. The Minister of Justice, Dr Lovro Šturm, provided a supplementary explanation to the draft law stating that the purpose of the bill is to regulate the area of arbitration in a uniform manner, thereby increasing legal certainty and extending the application of the arbitration procedure. The draft law was based on a model law on international commercial arbitration adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Economic Law and has been assessed by the Slovenian professional public on several occasions as the most appropriate basis for the reform of Slovenian arbitration law. The draft law regulates all types of arbitration established in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and specifies or complements the solution so far for the benefit of greater legal certainty of the parties in the arbitration procedure and the speedy implementation of the procedure. Arbitration is one of the means of out-of-court resolution of disputes, which takes place without the participation of state judicial authorities, even though it is in its nature similar to a judicial decision. The final settlement of the dispute shall not be accepted by the party itself, but shall be decided by the third party, by an authoritarian and independent decision. Arbitration is also ongoing as a means of unloading state courts, as it provides parties with an effective alternative way of resolving disputes. In addition to economic disputes, the application of arbitration in international legal systems extends significantly to the field of labour law and consumer law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said at the meeting that their extensive written comments had been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. It noted only a comment on Article 51, which had only been partially taken into account with the amendment. The second indent of paragraph 1 of this Article, in terms of ensuring legal certainty, enquiries the individual provisions of the law under international private law. The draft law was also given a positive opinion by the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation. In the discussion, the member of the Committee drew attention to the need to take into account the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service on Article 51 and the subsequent Ministers' response as inadequate. The Minister explained that there are legal comments that can and will be resolved subsequently, with amendments to the relevant laws and that legal certainty is not compromised, as all legislation is now accessible online and is easily accessible. Amendments to the bill were tabled by the coalition parliamentary group: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. And all these amendments have been accepted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! In the Lipa Group, we will support the draft law on arbitration. The proposal aims to regulate the area of arbitration in a uniform manner, thereby increasing legal certainty and extending the application of the arbitration procedure. I hope that the purpose and desire of the representatives of the Government by the judiciary is that the procedures in our country are as short as possible. The only issue is that, given that several amendments have been made to the Internal Policy Committee, I feel that this proposal has become consistent in the complementary proposal. Perhaps the only comment he would mention would be that there would be even greater encouragement for arbitral or negotiated solutions before a particular dispute comes to court. This seems to me to be another solution or another step towards shortening the proceedings and, in this case, a possible reduction of the judicial backlog. As for the law itself, as I said before, we have no substantive comments in the Lip Group of Members and we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, on behalf of the SDS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! If we look at the number of cases that the courts are dealing with, taking into account the case of the new writings each year, we can no doubt conclude that the Slovenians like to complain that we do not know how to agree and that in such cases it is up to one third to decide who is more or less right or right; most of the time it is the courts. That is why these courts are filled with cases and also, of course, not only because of this, we have relatively large judicial backlogs that question legal certainty. Of course, we can ask ourselves, ‘ Who benefits from this? ’ Of course, a third party, perhaps lawyers who can do their job quite correctly, but the question is, why spend so much time, energy, money on two who cannot agree, find a common solution or someone to make a decision about the conflict. It is therefore essential that we look for alternative ways to resolve these disputes out of court. One such is certainly arbitration, which, by its content, is quite similar to the judicial procedure when a third party decides to take a decision which is binding on both parties in the proceedings. However, it is important that it takes place without national judicial authorities. This means more possibilities for a solution, a faster chance for a solution, and consequently greater legal certainty. The law that lies ahead of us regulates this area in a uniform way, which of course we welcome. Now this has been regulated in various laws. We also like the fact that, as far as the basis for this law is concerned, this is the model law on international commercial arbitration, the professional public has been united in its assessment as a suitable basis for this law, which, of course, we welcome, given the many different positions expressed in various professional areas. For all of this we will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, on behalf of the SD Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We support the draft law on arbitration in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We also believe that it is appropriate to regulate arbitration in a uniform manner, i.e. in one law, although this is not the most important, since in one case it is an arbitration in the country, the settlement of relations or the resolution of disputes between domestic legal entities, and in another case such relations in international private law and procedure. Surely the proposed law that we have before us is one of the better prepared ones that comes from the Ministry of Justice. This is logical, however, because it was written on the basis of a model law on international trade arbitration adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Economic Law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support any proposal that actually makes it possible or ensures even faster implementation of the dispute resolution process and greater legal certainty of the parties in the process. It is very important that, precisely by increasing the use of arbitration in the resolution of disputes, regular courts can be substantially burdened by the fact that it is an out-of-court arbitration. As regards the types of disputes that can be resolved in arbitration through a third party whose decisions are binding on the parties, it is necessary to place particular emphasis on consumer disputes which are becoming more frequent in modern times. The proposed provisions in this Act stem from a well-founded aim to ensure greater legal protection for consumers. However, we attach to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that, in terms of legal certainty, it is inappropriate to repeal certain provisions of the Law on International Private Law and the Law on Enforcement and Insurance by this Act. The Minister of Justice's reply to the fact that it is indeed a comment of a legal system nature, that these two laws will be amended later on and that legal certainty is not compromised, as all legislation is now available online, and the Minister's response is certainly not satisfactory. The Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice are the main guardians of the application of constitutional principles on legal certainty, confidence in law and in the rule of law or the rule of law. Unfortunately, it is with regard to the implementation of these principles that we often face the ignorance of both the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice. In the presentation of the largest coalition party's position on the previous item on the agenda, it has been pointed out that we, the opposition, Members of this party are difficult to understand when we are opposed to the laws in the field of justice, because their main aim is to protect citizens. Yes, these laws have in fact ensured the greater impact of the executive power in court, and we believe that the time has actually come when citizens should be protected from this government. And as we know, even yesterday's warnings by the President of the Republic have not been delayed and all these laws have been adopted in order, as if nothing has been said in between. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u86	Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Arbitral or judgment is an interstate court composed of one or more persons, arbitrators or arbitrators who, on the basis of a contract of the parties, take a decision in a civil dispute which is usually of a material nature. By its legal effects, the arbitral decision is equivalent to a judicial judgment and is thus enforceable. The arbitration decision shall, as a rule, be one-stage and final. In our legal order, arbitration has so far been regulated by the Law on Judicial Procedure and the recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitration decisions under the Law on International Private Law. In particular, arbitration law has recently undergone a major reform in many European countries, and it is also right that Slovenian law be equipped with a more specific regime for the entire arbitration procedure. While the broad autonomy of the parties cannot clearly regulate the relationship between the court and arbitration, it is therefore necessary to have a clear and comprehensive legal regime, which, in our view, also brings the proposed law. Arbitration is the most similar to other forms of alternative dispute resolution. The bill brings to the Slovenian legal order a recommendation from the United Nations Commission in the form of a model law on international trade arbitration. The law applies to all types of arbitration. The law shall determine the parties, the manner in which the arbitrator is chosen, the course of the procedure and the choice of metrological law. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a law, and we want both economic and civil actors to serve arbitration procedures to a greater extent than ever before. However, we must not forget that arbitration is also one way to reduce the burden of the court, which we have been working on for many years. The parties can regulate the procedure more autonomously and the final purchase will also lead to greater customer satisfaction, which strengthens us in the belief that we are voting for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u89	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members. The law in force regulates the area of arbitration in two laws, namely, Chapter 31 of the Law on Judicial Procedure and Chapter 4 of the Law on Private International Law and Procedure. At the same time, there are many questions that both laws do not regulate or answer. The proposal is intended to regulate the area of arbitration in a uniform manner, thereby enhancing legal certainty and also extending the application of the arbitration procedure. In view of the fact that an effective arbitration procedure can, among other things, put a considerable strain on state courts, we have decided in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to support the proposal for a law. After all, the bill is drafted on the basis of a model law on international trade arbitration adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Economic Law, which gives us an even greater impression that the bill is a good one. The purpose of the Model Law is to give countries the basis for the preparation of national arbitration laws, which would consequently lead to the unification of the basic rules of the arbitration procedure in different laws or countries. This model law has already been transposed into its legal order by over 60 countries. The Slovenian professional public has already consistently assessed this model law as the most appropriate basis for the reform of Slovenian arbitration law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that uniform standards for the annulment, recognition and enforcement of arbitral decisions would increase the legal certainty of the parties in the arbitration procedure and, as we have already said, the very attractiveness of arbitration as a way of dealing with international economic disputes out of court. Arbitration law has undergone comprehensive reform and modernisation in many countries in recent times, and we are aware that the unchanged arrangements for arbitration in Slovenia would become more and more obsolete. We know that the number of arbitration procedures in Slovenia is not growing, but even falling. Arbitration is subject to sub-limitation, which greatly reduces legal certainty and predictability, since the parties to arbitration are not sufficiently guaranteed that the arbitral decision will be enforced. Even as regards the relationship between the court and arbitration, a clear and comprehensive legal regime is needed, since the shortcomings in this area cannot be replaced by an autonomous agreement between the parties or by the legal rules of permanent arbitration. The draft law regulates all types of arbitration established in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and complements the solution so far in favour of greater legal certainty of the parties in the arbitration procedure. It is also important that the law brings about a faster implementation of the procedure, which means quicker resolution of disputes and consequently increased interest in arbitral dispute resolution. The provisions of the bill will apply to the content and parties to the dispute, i.e. to disputes in non-economic relations and to internal disputes between domestic parties without an international element. The draft law allows the parties to submit before arbitration any or certain disputes already arising between them or which may arise in connection with a particular contractual or non-contractual relationship by concluding a written arbitration agreement. We agree with the proposaler that the bill does not bring dramatic substantive changes compared to the arbitration regime so far under the law on fair procedure. The draft law merely defines and complements the solution so far in favour of greater legal certainty of the parties in the arbitration procedure and faster implementation of the procedure. We believe that the applicant has well adapted the model law with the specificities of our normative environment and that it is right that the Arbitration Act is a separate law, not just a chapter within the Judicial Procedure Act. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , because it is a self-contained topic with specialities and its own characteristics. [[...]] In the SLS Group, we will support the draft law on arbitration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In view of the fact that arbitration is a very old institution for the out-of-court resolution of disputes over those rights with which the parties can freely dispose and can also settle them, the need for its comprehensive legal regime is also justified in our legal system, and the adoption of a broader legal basis from now on is inevitable. In the DeSUS Group, we will be happy to vote in favour of the proposed law, which will be both in relation to the other provisions in several other regulations, which already contain the possibility of arbitral decisions on a particular dispute, a roofing law and the nature of "lex generalis". Arbitration, in addition to mediation, is an important alternative to judicial decision or dispute resolution, as it provides parties with an effective, faster and cheaper way of resolving the dispute. Also, arbitration is certainly a good response to new challenges, how to reduce the burden of the courts, resulting in a number of judicial backlogs, which our country, taxpayers, are paying dearly. Arbitration is used to resolve national disputes as well as disputes of an international nature, both in the economic field and in labour and consumer law. The arbitration procedure is significantly shorter than the court, even if we compare the length of the trial only at the first stage because the average arbitration procedure lasts about half a year. Otherwise, it must be recognised that arbitration is slightly more costly than the first instance proceedings before a court, but if the dispute is transferred to higher courts, the costs of the entire arbitration procedure are substantially lower than the costs of the court. There are also some positive features of arbitration which, according to the ordinary court procedure, represent an essential advantage over them. The high flexibility shown by the parties to the selection of judges from the types of experts in the specific field, the impact of parties on the design of the procedure and the choice of substantive law, the non-requirement of arbitrators to decisions strictly by law, as they can take into account the principles of fairness, the independence of national legal order, the limited possibility of contesting an arbitral decision, which is also directly enforceable, is certainly those characteristics which make it possible for the parties to be squandered by this method of dispute resolution. In our parliamentary group, we also fully agree with the choice of the basis for the reform of Slovenian arbitration law. The international commercial arbitration has been carried over by a number of countries, in their entirety or through certain derogations, and this impact is also reflected in the legal order of those countries which have not taken it directly. Of course, it must also be stated that this system law does not bring some novelties, substantial substantive changes in relation to our current arrangements, but mainly means clarifying and supplementing the current solutions in favour of greater legal certainty of the parties in the arbitration procedure. It is noted that relatively few disputes have been resolved before arbitration courts, which is due to the fact that arbitration has not yet gained much confidence in the consciousness of the Slovenians. This is, of course, understandable in view of the lack of, outdated and systematicly fragmented legal arrangements in this area. It will therefore be necessary, in addition to the adoption of the law, to raise awareness of the public and to promote this institution well in practice. The DeSUS Members will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the amended bill today in the framework of the vote, which is 5 minutes after the end of the first item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to three, four, five. AND 6. It's a day's work. In accordance with the agreement of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, we will carry out joint introductions on the proposal of the Law on Change and Supplements to the Law on Land Book, the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Geodetic Activity, the Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Law on Notariat and the Proposal for an Act on the Establishment of Important Property on the Proposal of the Author of the Individual Act of the Position and the Determination of the Land belonging to the Staff, within the framework of paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. All laws are under second treatment, under the regular procedure. Proposals for laws were submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members and all other Members present. You have before you a set of four bill proposals that are interconnected. This is a proposal for a new Law on Land Book, a proposal for a new Law on Geodetic Activity, a proposal for a new Law on Notariat and a proposal for a new law on the establishment of a floor property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the determination of the land belonging to the building, or a short proposal for a law on the establishment of a floor property. This legislative framework introduces innovation in the legislative process by piloting a package of legislation, secondly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Package treatment of bearer law and accompanying laws, which correctly reflect the changes and additions caused by the amendment of the bearing law, introduces greater transparency and integrity into the legal order, which is one of the important elements of legal certainty. The legislative framework under consideration today follows two fundamental objectives. The first is the abolition of the remaining legal obstacles to the effective electronic integration of real estate records, in particular the land book, the earth cadastre and the cadastra of buildings. The realization of this purpose is a package of three laws. These are novels: the Land Book Act, which is a bearing law package, and the amendment of the Law on Geodetic Activities and the Notariat Act, which are accompanying laws. In addition to the coherence between the cadastral and the land register, it is also essential for the legal security of participants in the real estate market that the records reflect the true reality of life. Therefore, the second purpose of this legislative framework is to remove some of the key substantive reasons for non-conformity of records with the actual situation in the real estate sector, in particular in urban areas resulting from the unregulated situation since the time of the former social property, then not sufficiently pretentious privatisation legislation and failed attempts to remedy this situation from 1991 onward. In particular, the fourth law in this legislative framework is devoted to the realization of this purpose, and this is therefore the law establishing the floor property. In the preparation of the first set, i.e. proposals for amendments to the Land Book Act, the Geodetic Act and the Notariat Act, it was found, after examining the legal basis and the factual situation in the area of the relationship of real estate records, that the legal basis of the applicable legislation for the effective integration of real estate records had already been established and that they were appropriate. Therefore, at the legislative level, only some of the remaining administrative obstacles that prevent an effective electronic exchange of data, in particular the introduction of a single local competence and the establishment of so-called VEM points, all in one place, which I will explain more precisely below. According to the provisions of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, the establishment of real estate records is the issue of the consolidation of methodological and information solutions and the harmonisation of data models and the agreed elimination of certain unnecessary duplications and the distinctions between the parent and host data in the individual real estate records. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia are convinced that today's indistinguishable technical standards, which prevent the linking of data and the transfer of changes from the cadastra to the land book and in the reverse direction, can be exceeded by establishing so-called uniform identifiers and by an analytical inventory of processes within a few months. In order to fulfil this necessary condition for the effective electronic linkage of all real estate records, which, as I have already mentioned, is an agreed technical operational nature, the Government, at the time of the adoption of this legislative package, has also set out a specific way of monitoring progress in this area. In order to legally and effectively introduce the principles "all in one place", all at VEM points, it is necessary to introduce general local competence in land-booking and cadastral matters and, under legal conditions, to extend certain services to the network of notaries. The draft laws in question thus increase the number of entry points from one local competent land book court to 44 land book courts and 109 notary or existing 88 notary and other unscrupulous and open Notary cities by establishing the general local jurisdiction in land matters. However, in the case of cadastral matters, from one of the locally competent regional geodesic administrations to all the regional units in the office in the country. We have 12 regional geodetic administrations operating at 46 locations. As regards the issuance of cadastral data, as already provided for in Article 115 of the Real Estate Registration Act, and of course also on the network of notaries, as I have already mentioned. In the present system of the Land Book, when the competent court is competent to decide on the position of the property, of course, a special register shall be kept at each local competent court. However, for the proper functioning of the proposed new system by which general or uniform local jurisdiction will be established, a single entry note will be established whereby each application will be submitted, at any time in the country, assigning a number which is the basis for the entry of seal in the land register procedure and from which the order of application arises. For safety reasons, therefore, a deadline is proposed for the implementation of all necessary procedural technical innovations on 1 May 2009. So much for the first set or purpose of the legislative procedure under consideration today. With regard to the second purpose pursued by this legislative framework, let me say that the current regulation accurately prescribes substantive rules and procedures that can record actual and legal changes in real estate in the Land Catastrophe and Land Book. However, according to the applicant’s assessment, the current regulation is insufficient to allow for economic and efficient routes for land-book registration of the acquirers of individual parts of buildings in cases where the transfer of ownership occurred before the building was established and the land-book was entered on the floor property. For the acquirers of individual works, the current arrangement does not allow the land register to register the rights acquired until the registered land book owner of the land plot on which the building is located has established and has entered the land register of the property in the building. Of course, legal certainty only ensures the entry of ownership into the land book. For he who is not included in the book of the land is formally not the owner. Unfortunately, the current legislation resulting from a normal, regulated situation has not been able to solve the accumulated problems in the past, as I mentioned in the introduction. For example, it was not possible to register individual parts, such as apartments, business premises, garages, bicycles and other premises where the floor property was not established due to the passivity of land-book owners of parcels on which residential, business blocks are located, since the land-bookowner no longer exists or his legal successors are not known. According to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, it is about, perhaps a little more than 400 thousand unregistered residential units and an unknown number in the land register of unregistered business premises, residential dwellings, garages, bicycle shops and so on. Therefore, the number of land-based unrealised cases is very high, and this also poses very high risks in the real estate market. With the adoption of a new law on the establishment of land-based property, individuals who, for formal reasons already described, have failed to enter their individual parts of buildings into the land-book or to date have not been able to determine functional land to open buildings for a new, simple, modern procedure that is adapted to address the most common barriers currently preventing such registrations. The bill provides for an economic, efficient, simple and user-friendly procedure, but does not change the basic provisions of civil law, but fills legal gaps in the rules in force. The proposal for a law governs the basic systemic starting points of the law and lays down procedures for its establishment and the legal basis for possession, while in specific cases the rules of the Law on Land Book and the Law on Unfair Procedure apply to land register entries. Individuals who have or will have at their disposal, after the completion of the procedures described above, an appropriate charter for the entry of their right in a particular area into the land register will be able to make their entry after 1 May 2009 at any land book court. By taking over the necessary data in electronic form, directly at the Court's premises or at any notary in the country, which means more than 150 VEM entry points in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In view of the importance of the proposed regulation, as outlined in the proposals for amendments to the Land Book Act, the Geodetic Act, the Notariat Act and the proposal for a new law on the establishment of a floor property, I propose that you support and adopt all the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you. The draft laws were considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u95	Well welcomed, Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 43rd meeting, on 8.4.2008, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice held a second hearing of all four laws. Under the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Book, Minister Lovro Šturm presented the reasons for the amendment of the law. These relate to the removal of remaining legal barriers to the integration of real estate records, the establishment of a legal basis and the establishment of a way to retrieve data from the home records, and the elimination of administrative barriers by introducing general or single local jurisdiction and the establishment of a VEM point in respect of notaries, which provides for the inspection and issuance of certificates of the status of entries in the land register, the production of certain land register entries and the submission of land registers in electronic form. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service makes specific comments relating to the acquisition of data by the Land Book Court and to the solution allowing the submission of a land Book Proposal either to the Land Book Court or to the Notary and the various effects of such submission. It therefore proposes that the provision of the second paragraph of Article 14 of the draft law be deleted, since the provision governing the case of the submission of a landscaping proposal by a notary on behalf of the eligible proposer is already regulated in Article 9 of the proposal. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Geodetic Activities, the Minister of Justice first said that the law provides for uniformity of approaches in the field of property records, removes administrative obstacles and ensures better performance of the tasks of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service had no comments on an article of the bill and made a comment on the integrity of the regulation. By means of the proposed law, all powers of the State Geodetic Service are transferred to the implementation of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia in full, within the framework of their internal organisational units. The law also abolishes the definition of the area in which the geodetic undertaking is obliged to provide geodetic services. Although the service has no concerns about this solution, it notes that it has not been carried out in a consistent manner. Finally, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice voted together on all articles of the draft law without discussion and adopted them. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law in second reading at the home labour body, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Geodetic Activities be considered and adopted in the proposed text. With regard to the third law, this is the proposal for a law amending the Notariat Act, Minister Sturm stressed the main solutions relating to the regulation of notariat in relation to the local jurisdiction of the Land Book Court, the equal territorial representation of notaries in order to ensure the ongoing provision of notary services throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and to ensure a greater level of legal certainty for parties and participants in these real transactions. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly recalls the appropriateness of the time frame for the implementation of the bill and thus the possible discrepancy between the Notariat Act and the Land Book Act. The Committee held a debate and a vote on the articles of the bill and the amendment tabled, which it also adopted. In the case of the fourth law, this is the law establishing the floor property on the proposal of the acquirer of each part of the building and on the determination of the property belonging to the building, Minister Lovro Šturm said that the law submitted regulates all the cases of the establishment of the floor property in which the separate parts of the buildings were separated, and the land register owner of the plot did not register the land plot and did not provide the conditions for the land register entry of the acquirers of the individual parts of the building. Following the examination of the draft law under consideration in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the Legislative and Technical Service of the National Assembly made comments to the ninth articles. At the meeting, Mr Miran Ptrč, Head of the SD Group, orally revised the amendment tabled in Article 21, so that the content of the amendment is considered as an amendment to the new third paragraph of Article 28. Following a discussion on the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted all amendments to SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS and SD's parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Parliamentary Group Forgive me, Mr Petan. I didn't see Mr. Zagorec because he was already heading towards the pay phone. Here you are, Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Comrade Petan, believe me, I'm going to be very short, so we're going to switch fast. In the Lipa Group, we view all four laws as a single assembly that has one purpose, and this is the arrangement of the land book. The land book in our country has become very casual at one point, I'll say, a story that has also raised a number of problems in purchasing transactions or some other business when it comes to identifying ownership. Therefore, in the Lipa Group we will support all four proposals for laws. We support the fact that the Land Book Deposit will be able to be made for a certain business in 44 Land Book Courts and 88 Notaries, which will certainly relieve the courts, and I hope that it will also shorten the procedure from the application to the actual entry into the Land Book. Today, this procedure takes about four months if you're lucky. Also, I will say, the abolition of the so-called so-called real estate agency, which would combine all real estate records, seems to me that was the reason for the adoption of this package of laws. Thus, we must take the proposal of the Land Book Act, on geodetic activity, on notariat and on the so-called "floor property" as a fact that - if implemented, I must stress this if this is to be done - will help to make the land book more up-to-date and will also help an individual who is interested either in the sale or for the purchase of certain real estate, essential property or anything else in connection with real estate to be able to identify the real owner. We have a number of cases in this country where real estate was sold by non-owners and simply because of the urgency of the land book, the facts could not be ascertained. People for such or other reasons, however, I think that the fundamental reason is the length of the procedure and the amount of the judicial fee needed to enter the land book - they were those who did not report their property without realizing that they were actually causing harm to themselves. Finally, it is possible only to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if it has already decided before the elections to make certain services cheap - for example, yesterday we received appreciation for the use of motorways and other things - to consider also to compensate for a relatively high court fee when it comes to entering the land book, where else and thus really allow people to exercise their ownership rights in an early manner and also to formalize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government! The package of four laws, the Land Book, the Geodetic Activities, the Notariat and the Establishment of Floor Property, means the elimination of bureaucratic barriers to the integration of real estate records and the establishment of a legal framework and the basis for e-relationships between individual real estate records. Initially, we need to say that the real estate records are divided into two groups, one in which the records are based on the property registration law, such as the land cadaster, the cadaster of buildings, the register of real estate, and are within the jurisdiction of the Geodetic Authority, and the other in which the land book belongs, i.e. the record of the property's fair property characteristics, as referred to by the Land Book Act. Entry shall be decided on an unfair basis and shall be under the jurisdiction of the Land Book Courts. It is estimated that effective integration of the two real estate records does not require their physical integration into one base, despite the different technical standards of both bases, which was probably an alternative. It should be pointed out, however, that bureaucratic obstacles must be removed in bringing the services of both bases closer to the citizens while maintaining their motherhood, which means that each entry into the real estate record is made in the register provided for in the law. The novelty of this proposal is also in terms of efforts to remove administrative barriers and bring public services closer to consumers through single entry points, which means "Everything in One Place". This single entry point is supposed to be in notaries. Following the current legislation, applications for entry into the Land Book should be submitted to the Land Book Departments of District Courts, which are locally competent for a specific cadastral municipality. Following a new proposal, applications will be possible to invest anywhere in Slovenia, as a general local competence approach is being introduced. This, of course, increases the number of investment places, while at the same time certain organisational and technical changes will have to be made. Such a change could eliminate the long periods necessary for entry into certain land-book courts. In view of the proposed amendment, it is also necessary to amend the law on notariat in work linking the regulation of notariat to the local jurisdiction of the Land Book Court. However, the proposed solution does not undermine the current regime which provides that notary records of legal transactions relating to mortgages and debt on immovable property may consist only of a locally competent notary. The proposed changes also affect other areas. These amendments are intended to provide for the possibility of regulating the land-booking situation with a real estate, when several owners and all parts of the buildings have not been registered in the land book in one building. In the past, it is known that neither the municipalities nor other investors who built on so-called social land have regulated the land book condition, nor have functional land been measured, or are not fully accounted for. Unfortunately, this situation also applies to entire residential settlements, where many parts do not yet have the entire registration and dosage. The situation is also complicated because some are on so-called social property because bankruptcy has ceased to exist as some so-called social owners. The special problem is the functional land owned by the owners of the facility. This bill is intended to provide systemic possibilities to harmonise the land register situation in buildings with several parts that have not yet been resolved, even due to the passivity of owners. According to the proposal, since property relations are property relations, the decision should be taken in court proceedings. In order to ensure implementation of the envisaged solutions, changes to the Law on Geodetic Activities are also needed. All four laws together form a whole and a real basis for carrying out the tasks envisaged. We support the proposed changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Environment and Space have jointly prepared and introduced into the legislative process a set of four laws dealt with at this meeting of the National Assembly. We are talking about three proposals for legal novelties, namely the amendments to the Land Book Act, the Geodetic Activity and the Notariat Act, and also the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Floor Property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the determination of the land belonging to the building. In my presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I will focus in particular on the following, as it is the most substantive and social democrats, also a difficult-to-expect law that attempts to regulate legally the many insurmountable issues of land-book registration of essential property, since the important work of the acquirer of individual parts of the building has not been allowed to do so for various reasons to date. It is quite unusual how Slovenian real estate legislation was adopted and amended, especially after the period of independence. A large number of laws that have affected this area in one way or another have dealt with each other in a rather partial and non-consistent manner, without an adequate analysis of the real situation in practice, which has caused many new injustices and problems to owners or users of real estate. In doing so, let me only remind you of the severe longstanding difficulties faced by tenants in denationalised apartments or by houseowners, many of whom have not yet managed to properly regulate and protect their legal position. The consequences of such a way of regulating this area are also reflected in the lack of alignment of the land register with the actual situation, in particular in the case of buildings with the respective parts such as apartments, common premises, business premises, garages. In addition, it is correct to say that in 1999 the so-called Intervention Act on Special Conditions for the Registration of Property Rights in Individual Parts of the Building was adopted, which also tried to simplify the registration process for the individual parts of the multi-entity building. In particular, it was the registration of the floor property in buildings built before 1995 when the Land Book Act entered into force and already imposed in Article 74 on the investor to arrange for the registration of individual parts of the building after obtaining the final use permit. However, this intervention law was only valid for five years, but unfortunately it did not achieve the desired effect. Member of the Commission, Mr Samo Bevk, asked the competent ministers in September 2005 the question of how to regulate the issue of the registration of property in the land register and committed itself to extending the law. At that time, the ministries did not show a greater willingness to resolve the situation, so we are so pleased that they changed their position and prepared a proposal for a new law, even if only at the end of the mandate. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats welcomes the basic purpose of the proposal for a law establishing a floor property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the determination of the land belonging to the building. It seeks to speed up all procedures so that the floor property is first established on individual parts of the building and then quickly and for the largest possible number of beneficiaries enters the land book. In these proceedings, the intention of the bill is appropriate, as it seeks to assist the interested party in the exercise of its real-law rights by means of legal assumptions and the introduction of legal institutions, in particular acquisitions, while respecting all the basic principles of the general real estate first. One of these principles is also the so-called "superficies solo cedi" principle, which comes from Roman law and is also taken by our real-law code and means that the property built on some land is shared by the legal destiny of this land. Therefore, it is also a prerequisite for the establishment of floor property on the building and for the later entry of individual parts of it into the land book in order to determine the corresponding land belonging to the individual building. The proposal also gives priority to the procedures for the establishment and entry of individual parts of the land title into the land book, in particular before other civil proceedings, as those who show their legal interest and with individual decisions or findings in this process do not agree, refer to a later truth on a particular issue and the procedure under this law is carried out until the end. On the other hand, in implementing one of the key objectives of the proposed law, this is the economy and speed of the process of entering individual parts of the building into the land book, the applicant estimates that the only denationalisation process in the property concerned is the one to stop any activity in the conduct of the proceedings under this law. Such termination of proceedings would last until the legal capacity of a specific denationalisation procedure is clarified in substance, neither in the introduction nor in the explanation of the articles. Finally, this raises the question of why no other administrative or enforcement proceedings, such as a decommissioning procedure or a real estate enforcement procedure, are included in this category of proceedings which would have an advantage over proceedings under this law. If the general legal principle applies, that any exception to the rule laid down should be clarified in particular, then the applicant could be dealt with in this case in violation of this principle. Let us hope that this will not bode up to any dispute before the Constitutional Court, which could possibly repeal any of the provisions of this law, and the consequences would be particularly felt by those beneficiaries to whom this law is intended in the first place. Let us not forget, for example, the repeal of Article 7 of the above-mentioned intervention law of 1999, which allowed entry on the basis of a contract between the building investor and the first buyers even if this contract was not submitted in the original or to those replacing the original or if the seller's signature on the contract was not verified. This provision was challenged by banks in the constitutionality assessment request, since that provision allows for the entry of property rights in a particular part of the building without a load book. In addition, we would like to draw attention to two more open but, in our opinion, important questions on which the proposal for a law does not provide adequate answers. The first concerns Article 7 of the draft law, which regulates the essential conditions for the building to be able to establish a floor property at all, this is the determination of the relevant property. Regrettably, the article does not solve cases where the land owners are not at the same time owners of the land on which the building is located, but at the same time the owner of the land of the land does not want to recover the land of the land for the benefit of the high-level owners. However, a problem may arise due to the high price offered by the landowner at his disposal, which the level-holders would not be able to pay. Secondly, it is the costs associated with the dose of the plot. In this regard, some experts have pointed out the problem that many beneficiaries under this law would not be able to pay relatively high costs of geodetic measurements of the land belonging to the building. In particular, in those buildings where they do not have or do not have sufficient resources. In the Group of Social Democrats, we would like to welcome some concerns about the draft law and, above all, to monitor its implementation in practice and to try, in particular, in dialogue with local communities and all interested parties to seek acceptable solutions, particularly for those who have not been able to regulate the land register of the individual parts of the property that this law is trying to propose to them. We therefore support and support this bill and the remaining three in the parliamentary group when we vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! Let me begin by saying that in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we support the proposal for a law in this package. This is because it nevertheless enforces the principle of everything in one place and, as a result of this principle, the general local authority in land-booking and cadastral matters, as well as in notaries, as far as this is concerned. The background of this marriage is quite interesting. First of all, you know there's been a lot of talk about the establishment of a real estate agency that would combine all real estate records. Now we have a different solution here, a package of legislative changes that allow for informational integration of records, says the result is the same and problems will be significantly smaller for users in particular. The proposal for a law establishing a floor property at the request of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and determining the property of the building will allow a new procedure for entering the land book to those who today cannot do so for formal reasons because the landowner is no longer active, or whether his successors are no longer known. Well, another problem may be the indeterminability of functional land to buildings, but according to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia it is more than 400,000 unregistered apartments and a small number of business premises, residential dwellings, garages and so on, and of course the procedures are going on, even if there are no special complications, for a very long time. Besides, I don't know now, we've heard the number four months before, and I know when there were no complications, but because of the jobs or those who are doing it, it took years. Well, however, this will increase the number of entry points in land-book matters, which is good, cadastral as well, and thus solve the problems that the current real estate records have brought, it is said, the actual physical properties, the cadaster, the cadaster of buildings, the real estate register, and the legal properties of real estate, such a record is the land book. Well, actually, there's only one sermon to conclude. Since this package of laws shortens the paths of all real estate buyers and makes them more reliable, they will no longer doubt whether they have done anything wrong. That is why in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support this package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u105	Once again a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! In New Slovenia, we support the changes or improvements brought by the real estate law package, because we believe that they provide the very positive solutions and provide the basis for a more effective establishment of order in this area, especially in terms of the early alignment of the actual situation with the real estate records. Amendments to the basic law in this package, this is the Land Book Act, are going in the direction of simplifying land-book procedures and removing administrative barriers. This will mean both a time and a financial burden for an individual, and for a whole system of better connections and a faster and more efficient operation. New Slovenia supports the introduction of the general local jurisdiction of the Land Book Courts, which is one of the key novelties of the proposed legislation, as it will allow the submission of land-book proposals in any district court and not necessarily in the area of which the property lies. The introduction of the general local jurisdiction of land-book courts is also accompanied by new laws on geodetic activities and on notariat, which allow for the effective introduction of the "one-stop shop" principle. At this point, it is not too much to commend the Ministry of Justice, which, through the preparation of the package of laws, has taken care of the transparency and integrity of the legal order in order to harmonise the laws governing this issue. After these changes have been implemented, citizens will be able to enter their property into the land book anywhere in Slovenia, meaning 44 land-based book courts, as well as 88 notariats, I think there will be more soon. In the case of cadastral matters, they will be able to refer instead to any unit of geodetic administration in the country. This will relieve the courts and make land-booking procedures easier for individuals. In New Slovenia, we regret that there was no establishment of an agency, which we have also thought about and talked about the spilling of the Earth's cadastra or geodesic administration and the land book, because we are convinced that this would have even better consequences than this package of laws, because we are convinced that this would also lead to considerable rationalisation. Indeed, it is a recent time for the informational integration of records, in particular the records of the Land Book and the Earth Cadastre. It is illogical that we did twice all things, both at the geodetic board, when we transferred the data of the land book into our records, as on the other hand, the land book, which had so much data transmitted manually to its records. In the age of informationisation, it is right to connect these records and to eliminate this unnecessary duplication. In Novi Slovenija we also welcome the introduction of the general local jurisdiction of geodetic administrations, because we know that the burden of geodetic administrations in Slovenia is very different, that in some parts of Slovenia things are ongoing, while in other geodetic administrations there are delays. And I'm sure people will decide and invest things where they know they'll be dealt with faster. In particular, I would also like to point out the new law establishing a floor property on the proposal of the acquirer of the part of the building and on the determination of the land belonging to the building. Here we had a special law for the registration of property of the floor, an intervention law. For five years, this law had been in force, but unfortunately the owners had not taken advantage of it. I wondered myself why it was, but on the other hand, the answer to this question is quite clear. We had only a land cadaster and a land book before. We didn't even have a cadastral building. It was necessary to set up a new record, and certain programmes had to be put in place to address matters. I think that things are now so far away that this new law will actually allow for a quick entry for all the top-level owners. This law removes some of the key substantive reasons for the non-conformity of records with the actual situation in the real estate sector, which are due to the unregulated conditions of social property and failed attempts to improve this situation from independence to today. For individuals who have to date been unable to register their parts of the buildings in the land book either because of their absence or because of the passiveness of the landowner or because they have not been able to determine the functional land to the buildings, this new law brings a solution. They will now be able to enter their part of the building in the land book even in the event of the absence or inaction of the landowner. The court's decision will determine the land belonging to the building, establish the property on the floor, and the acquisitions of individual parts of the building will be entered in the land book. This is an important novelty that will also reduce major risks in the real estate market and ensure the legal security of the owners of buildings. In New Slovenia, we are confident that all the innovations brought by the real estate law package will help to regulate all these matters in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, co-workers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! We hear a lot about friendly public administration in this mandate. This fact is a lot of interpretation in its own way, but we must admit that it has been quite done in this direction and that we all want changes that would make our business easier as users. We have before us the so-called package of four bill proposals that undoubtedly contribute to a more friendly and user-friendly public administration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, of course, we will support all these bill proposals because in their amendments we see many advantages because each of the four bills in its field has a positive impact on the organisation of administration and burdens users. For example, the proposed Act amending the Notariat Act introduces a system of uniform or general local competence that preserves the advantages of equal territorial representation of notaries. This would ensure the ongoing management of notar services throughout the country. Notary records of legal transactions establishing a mortgage and land debt on immovable property consists of a notary established by a notary office in the district of the district court where that property is located. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we see in this good solution that can balance notary services throughout the country and not only concentrate on larger centres and certain notaries. That is precisely why, in certain notaries, this solution is unlikely to be too well-adopted, but we believe that it will still have a positive impact on the greater sharing of notary services. A similar example of a good solution is the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Geodetic Activities, which violates the principle of uniform or general local jurisdiction in geodetic matters. Removing administrative barriers and providing single entry points, all in one place, is something that all service users want. Data recording and specific administrative procedures would be managed by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia or its units instead of one of the local competent geodetic administrations. This would significantly burden larger and more burdened geodetic administrations, and even in this case, tasks would be more evenly distributed throughout the territory as an individual could apply for administrative procedure in any internal organisational unit of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the location of the property. Administrative obstacles are also addressed in relation to the essential property and the land book, as the data would be automatically downloaded from the home records under this proposal. There is also an increase in the number of places where land-book proposals can be made. We are pleased that there are moving towards easier business for the parties. Any such change is very welcome. Especially when we are a party and we only hope that in practice it will come to life as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. As I have already said, Members of the parliamentary group in these draft laws see good solutions, and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u109	President, thank you for your word. Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government. The proposed amendments refer to three different basic laws and to the adoption of a new law, and therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we consider the proposed amendments to be a rational and prudent decision to be considered together in view of the need for simultaneous publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Our country has an effective land book system that contributes significantly to the implementation of the fundamental principles of the land book for an up-to-date e-book. For example, the principle of the public, the principle of trust, the security of legal traffic and also the burden of the courts, so that the Slovenian courts are set aside by modern courts, which are open to the public with key information. The proposed innovations thus follow social and technological changes and constitute an upgrade to existing solutions, and therefore we fully support DeSUS Members. The fundamental principles of land-law will, in our belief, be applied to a greater extent than ever before. In doing so, I am thinking mainly of removing obstacles to the integration of real estate records, of establishing a single local jurisdiction of courts governing land-booking procedures and of setting up a point - everything in one place - in the case of notaries. We also support the solutions of the proposed new law on the establishment of a floor property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the determination of the property belonging to the building, as it will be possible by the adoption of the proposed new law to enable the acquirers of individual parts of the buildings to obtain a land register entry of the property of the floor in those cases where the landowners are passive or absent in respect of the establishment and land register entry of the property in the buildings. Thus, it will be possible for thousands of housing holders to formally confirm their ownership by entering the land book, thereby ensuring more consistent or legal certainty in the area of real estate transport. Members of the DeSUS will contribute to the adoption of all three novels, namely the Land Book Act, the Geodetic Activity Act and the Notariat Act, and also to the amendment of the Act establishing the floor property on the proposal of the acquirer of the individual part of the building and the determination of the land belonging to the building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to these bills, I am concluding a second reading of all four bills. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the draft laws today in the framework of the votes, which is 5 minutes after the end of item 1 of the agenda. By doing so, I interrupt these agenda items. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 13.45 p.m. by the oath of the Constitutional Judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u111	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to the continuation of the meeting, at THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. At the 37th meeting, Dr Ernest Petrič elected the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Because the Constitutional Judge was detained, he will swear before the National Assembly today. I ask the Constitutional Judge, Prof. Ernest Petrič, to join us in the hall and take an oath in front of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u112	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[Let's hear it.]] Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for your confidence when you elected me on 27 March 2008 to this important duty. As I have already said in my oath, with my knowledge and experience, I will strive for this court to work successfully and in particular for the sake of what connects us - democracy, security, respect for human rights, all that our society is supposed to be adorned and satisfying for our people. The Constitutional Court has an important role to play in this regard and I will cooperate to the best of my ability to do so effectively and effectively. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you, Dr. Ernest Petrič, for your oath and once again congratulations on behalf of the National Assembly! I hereby adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2 p.m. with questions from Members and Members of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving forward with the meeting of the National Assembly, which is to continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda. Under this item, Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, will answer four questions from members of the opposition and from the ruling coalition. The first question will be asked by Mr Jožef Školč. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u115	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister! It will not be a day before the Slovenian public is confronted with various reports on the contentious conduct of individual members of your ministerial team. Most of these readings go down, you're going to have unloved media or unnecessary politicization. That is why I have decided to ask you what you will do with those ministers, for whom, I will say, the legal institutions of the system have found that they have made mistakes and violated regulations and laws. First of all, I would remind you that the Court of Auditors in a series of reviews has found many mistakes by Minister Podobnik. In one of the procedures this has led to so far that you have been asked to propose a solution. You didn't do that. Why? On the other hand, we have a foreign minister, who you probably know for yourself why he is a minister, and everyone else has long wondered. Dissatisfaction at the Ministry is a great deal of open things in foreign policy remain increasingly complex and increasingly open. It was also there that, in a process where personal data were checked, the data officer found that it was one of the most extensive violations of this personal data. Not Minister Rupel, not Minister Podobnik, did not say what they would be required by the ethical code you prepared or their personal honour. Is that why he falls for you to tell you what you're gonna do with them?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much for that question. Otherwise, I have repeatedly commented and answered a similar question in the National Assembly as well as in public. The Government takes the warning of supervisory institutions seriously. Where specific errors are detected, we also eliminate them. In the case of the two ministries you have re-emphasized, nothing has changed since the last time I answered the same question. In any case, there were no violations or errors that would require drastic conduct such as, say, replacing the minister. Even if the findings were significantly more serious, each government should ask itself at a time when the state is leading the European Union whether it can afford a month or more without a responsible person leading the relevant composition of the European Council. At this very time, it is during this half year that such persistence and such concentration on individual members of the government is causing a very bad feeling. When it comes to the Ministry of the Environment, it seems that the Court of Auditors specializes in this area. Otherwise, this venerable institution within the mandate of this government is extremely active. From their website I have statistics here showing that in 2007 alone the Court of Auditors in Government completed 18 audits - 18! - in 2004, it is said, and in the last year of the previous government's term of office 4. So a little unbalanced activity, where the Court of Auditors finds, as I said, specific errors or irregularities, we eliminate them. No one challenges the authority of this institution. However, I cannot help but feel that sometimes things are either in the statements made by the representatives of this institution, and especially here, they are needlessly politicised. When it comes to a well-known investigation by an information officer at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is very symptomatic that this body is able to make clear to the Ministry something that it has carried out. In the rules of procedure of the Information Officer, I think there was a provision by February of this year that, in cases where the issue of employment relations, offences and the like, the Information Officer may look into the e-mail of employees. If we remember, it was a concrete observation to the Minister that calls were being checked at the Ministry, not content, just calls, because a diplomatic dispatch had just been published. No one checked the employees' contents. The information officer had the possibility in his internal acts to verify the content. Indeed, it has corrected this Regulation, but only when this matter has become problematic in the public following this investigation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, this contradiction raises reasonable suspicion that sometimes it is not only a real finding of irregularities and the control of the executive power, but an attempt to create a political problem at all costs and then a replacement of a minister, who is normally now 80% employed in the management of the European Union's affairs. From this point of view, I really do not want to go to every meeting, individually or every time, to explain these reasons that seem unfounded to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, we did not ask you what rules the information officer had, but what you would do when the information officer found that they had committed mass violations of privacy at the Ministry. And when questions were also raised as to the legal basis for the initiation of that type of investigation that comes to the police and judicial authorities. You're used to trying to distract someone else. You will always find someone who has made a bigger mistake in the past, but this does not untie Mr Rupl, this does not untie Mr Sponik and this does not untie you. We ask you: What will you do after the opposition has discovered that something was wrong - when we find out something, you will eliminate us by making it equal or worse in previous mandates? This time, the system's institutions found faults. On 5 February, the Court of Auditors sent you an invitation to dismiss the Minister, no matter how many times it reviews a single ministry. You don't do it. This, of course, sets a poor example for others in respecting the decisions of the authorities, including the judiciary. Yesterday, the President of the Republic spoke about the need to respect the sayings - whether we agree with them. You don't do that, you start the credibility of institutions, you start believing in the rule of law, and you actually undermine what's called democratic. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u121	I can say it again, even though I don't think it's necessary. I would point out, however, that the President of the Government is not the only one who can propose the replacement of a minister. When I make that judgment, I'll make that suggestion. And in the past, that's what I've done. It's my responsibility. However, according to the Slovenian Constitution, the role of the opposition in the National Assembly is also the control of the executive branch, and part of this control is the proposal for the interpolation and replacement of the minister. 10 members of the opposition have the opportunity to submit the same proposal to the National Assembly as the President of the Government. The emissary group you belong to has enough votes to do this. You are equally bound by the findings of the supervisory institutions as I am. I'm not the only one who thinks that. I also need to judge from the broader perspectives I spoke about earlier. If those arguments you're talking about were so solid, I don't doubt that they would have collected 10 signatures long ago and filed an interpellation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u123	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, in accordance with the options given to us by the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate on this answer, as it is not possible for the President of the Government to place his responsibility on the opposition when the Court of Auditors asks him to initiate the discharge procedure. If he doesn't want to do this, if he doesn't want to do his job, if he doesn't want to do his job, if he doesn't want to do his job, if he doesn't want to do his job, if he doesn't want to follow the institute that was actually established by the Constitution, then he should step down. It cannot speak to the Presidency of the European Union so that the institutions of the system do not function. It's in our judgment when, when and how to put the question of interpolation. We have enough signatures not to worry you, but the Court of Auditors has asked you, not parliament, to do so. Mr President of the National Assembly, I expect you to support this interesting debate and that we will be able to clear these things up because they go far beyond the responsibility of the President of the Government and his ministers, but interfere with understanding the constitutional system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Školč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the context of the votes. Mr Janko Weber will put the next question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! At the time of the introduction of the income system, the Government claimed that we would all be better off and that no one would pay more than we have paid so far. Unfortunately, many today feel that this is not the case, or we can find that tax legislation puts taxpayers in a better position with the highest income, at the expense of those who receive low or average wages. This is also evidenced by the calculation for taxpayers who have been abolished by 2% and 4% of the housing tax relief; more income is paid by those who receive up to €950 gross monthly salary and about €4,500 by those with the highest wages. But that's not all. The biggest injustice is for taxpayers who own agricultural and forest land and beekeepers. The Government has proposed that the cadastral income obligations be increased by an average subsidy per hectare of land in use and that the tax base for beekeepers beekeeping bee beekeeping bee is added to the average subsidy amount. In doing so, about 100,000 owners of agricultural and forestry land and beekeepers did not receive or have never applied for a subsidy. Therefore, it is an unfair and unlawful taxation of these taxpayers, since the Income Law itself clearly provides that individual incomes of natural persons are taxable if they are received. This certainly creates a constitutional principle of the rule of law, particularly in terms of confidence in law. That is why, Mr President, I ask you: How is it possible for the government and the government coalition to propose such unfair taxation? Who is responsible for such unfair taxation? Is it the government, is it the Minister of Finance, is it the Minister of Agriculture or is it the Director of the Tax Administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you for asking. Apparently, this is a topic of the moment, because there are quite two questions on the same subject. Before I answer that, let me just say that the charges against you are against you. And before I talk about how this government did something, we need to look at the situation before the tax reform, what happened and what the results are. In 2005, the so-called Marble Tax Act was adopted. And agricultural subsidies were then entirely included for the first time in the tax base. In view of the fact that this solution has then proved to be contrary to European law, the amendment was proposed. The new Income Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2007, significantly improved the tax situation of the agricultural, forestry and complementary undertakings in the farms. The system has also brought substantial simplifications and more favourable solutions. The tax base decreased by more than half compared to the 2005 solutions. If I am very specific, the threshold for flat-rate income has been set, over which a household is considered as a farm household. This threshold was €200 of cadastral income. This measure alone reduced the number of debtors from around 540,000 in 2006, to around 230,000 in 2007. This is also essential rationalisation. The payment of the income has been made. Certain payments were exempted from the tax. So far, no debtor has been, as you say, unjustly taxed. Commitments exceeding EUR 200 of the cadastral income were notified of the level of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. They received a notification in the amount to be taken into account in the calculation of the information income. No one's ever had a score before, and no one's ever paid for it. In order to avoid confusion, the Ministry of Finance has now sought a solution that allows the amount of subsidies to be attributed without any amendment of the legislation only to those who actually receive the subsidies. This problem, which was not in practice, these information forecasts have caused some confusion, that is true, but no one has received either a decision or a payment request. This problem will not be the case because the Ministry has found a solution that, without amending the legislation, allows subsidies to be exempted from taxation. When it comes to certain other tax reliefs, which have taken a different form in existing tax legislation than they had before, have been different or have been different, but are not now, the government has promised, before you voted in favour of tax legislation, that as soon as we have data for one year when the tax reform takes place, and this year 2007, we are now receiving data, analysing the situation and proposing any changes. At the previous meeting of the Government, we set up a special Inter-Resort Working Group to prepare possible amendments by 15 May, where it has been shown that any tax relief policy could be changed. And as promised, we will also propose changes, but on the basis of concrete data. All that is said now is to speak in mind, because the data for the 2007 tax year, when we first carried out the tax reform, we are only getting it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thanks again for saying that. I must admit that I cannot really believe the answer the President of the Government has to this very specific question. In fact, I am not surprised that the public’s confidence in the government is declining from month to month, especially because of the answers I have heard to this question. Mr President, people get decisions, taxpayers get decisions and positions in addition to those decisions, which, of course, require them to pay tax obligations from agricultural and forestry activities. And if they're beekeepers, so are they. Article 154 of the Income Act makes it very clear to the Minister of Finance to determine the average amount of subsidy per hectare of agricultural land, forest or beekeepers per hectare of land for the herd they hold. The average amount of the subsidy was published twice in the Official Journal. The Minister of Finance changed it twice without explaining why, or was then explained by the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance on the Committee on Agriculture, we reduced this average subsidy or additional burden on the cadastral income by 30% because of high inflation, as we originally thought. Dear Prime Minister, the law must be respected. Social Democrats are proposing an amendment to the law, Article 154 of the Income Act, which actually wants to make it legal that you cannot tax someone who has not received or applied for the grant. You need a legal basis for that. As you have answered, you want to work completely without [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] legal basis and contemplation. [[...]] That's illegal. So I ask you: Will you support the law we have tabled by the Members of the Social Democrats to amend Article 154 and thereby legitimize what you are? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u131	Clearly, you don't need a legal basis in order not to tax someone. You need a legal basis to tax someone. Your proposal for marriage is irrelevant, unnecessary, as I said before. At that time, no one has yet been given the decision to pay the subsidy tax which they did not receive. Only real subsidies will be taxed. This is possible under existing legislation. There are also legal opinions that the Government has obtained on this. Seems to me it's getting complicated here needlessly. It appears to be a problem that has already been solved. And some are very sad about it, rather than being happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you again, President, for your word. I really have a procedural proposal to hold, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. Because I can't, I really can't believe my ears and eyes, what I'm experiencing here in Parliament today. And I will read to you, President, the official document of the Ministry of Finance sent to beekeepers: "Before the system solution is in place to calculate the flat-rate income assessment of the hive, the flat-rate income assessment shall be determined in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 154 of the Income Act. [[Therefore, Article 154 of the Income Act is based.]] Following this Decision, during the transitional period a flat-rate assessment of the income per bee shall be set at EUR 14 per bee, which shall include the average amount of the subsidy per bee. This is in accordance with the provision of Article 154, paragraph 8, irrespective of whether beekeepers have actually received a subsidy or not, charged to taxable persons. So it is more than obvious that we really need a very frank debate in Parliament on this issue and the President of the Government to inform you that in 2007 you did not pay the subsidy to those beneficiaries who applied for the subsidy. So you have no basis to tax the farms that applied for the subsidy, and these subsidies were not received because you were late with the payments. And this really requires a debate in the National Assembly, and requires a very clear message to all those farmers who expect to receive a grant in time, and above all not to be unfairly taxed for something they have not received. This is a problem for those who have applied for a subsidy and have not received them in 2007 and you are taxing them, and it is a problem for those who have not applied for a subsidy, and you also want to tax them or say that there is no need to amend legislation if you do so. I think that the National Assembly and the Slovenian public do not deserve such an answer, and I propose that the President discuss this in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure and that we vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Webra to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the votes. The following question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. In 2004, the average pension in our country was EUR 460. In 2007, three years later, this pension amounted to EUR 507. Thus, in three years, there was an increase of about €40 on average. But I want to remind you that in 2007 alone, we had an incentive, I'm just going to talk about food, up to 40%. Minister Beast announced in the TV Club broadcast, and I will quote him: "The salaries and pensions have been even after the 2005 change." End of story. Minister Zver spoke to remind you of the generosity of the Government towards the pensioners in the new law on pension and disability insurance, which, last but not least, is highlighted by the other officials of your government. People do not know all the facts, so they can be deceived by such flat-rate data until, of course, they are affected by the effects. And since I am trying to build my policy on concrete data, on the content that I will not think about it, I invite you to look at a table and a witness chart that will follow this table, which discusses what the effects of government policy in 2005 are in the field of pension and disability insurance law, as well as in the new methodology for determining salaries and income legislation, which has changed the relationship between net and gross salaries to the detriment of pensioners, respected Mr President of the Government. The data clearly show that in 2004, according to your term of office and your change, the average pension amounted to 64.5% of the salary. In 2007, after your change, it was only 61.3% of the salary. Pensions, a hand to the heart, are real behind wages, falling, as shown in the chart. I ask you: How does the government respond to this fact? What measures will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take to eliminate this obvious degradation of pensioners? Let me remind you, Mr President, in 2007, inflation was 6.4% year-on-year with very clear indicators. Incentives were on average higher by 15%. And the food was also irritable to 40%. I ask you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: How to proceed?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you. Here you go, President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u137	I don't know, so from what you said or from what you said in the question, you're obviously suggesting that we go back to the system that was in force before 2005. If the data provided by you were to be kept, it would mean that before this government fixed the injustice to the pensioners and reintroduced the reconciliation of pensions with wage increases, that this government has done something bad, and that it is better that pensions are not aligned, that pension growth is not aligned with wage growth. That's what happened before. This is in the post-election term of 2000, which was the first measure of the former government in early 2001. We criticised that measure, and after the 2004 elections, we corrected it. If the pension were not to be aligned with the salaries, these ranges would still be significantly greater. That's perfectly clear. The solution isn't on the way back. If you compare the ratio between the average pension and average salary in Slovenia and other former transition countries or countries that became members of the European Union in 2004, you will see that Slovenia is at the summit. If you compare the wage-retirement ratio in Slovenia and countries that have, say, been established in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, you will see that pensions in Slovenia are ten times higher. I'm sure everyone would like to, especially the pensioners, to be higher. However, account must also be taken of the real possibilities and the real situation. In the coming weeks, you will certainly experience again some of the advices of international financial institutions criticising Slovenia for spending too much public money on pension payments. In fact, this is a constant criticism that working hours are too short, and these are also evidences from some European institutions. This government has consciously opted for an approach that does not detract from the pension generation, which has the same right to participate, to participate in the distribution of some of the fruits of the past work that they have done in difficult circumstances, in which present generations are working, or certainly in more difficult circumstances, than I do not know, future wages will serve future generations. This is a fundamental framework under which this Government has taken a fair approach to ensuring the sustainability of the pension system. And at this point there is no need for any drastic measures. Slovenian public finances are stable, sustainable as far as this is concerned. With some voluntary measures in terms of promoting additional pension insurance or savings, voluntary staying in longer active or working life, this balance in public finances can also be maintained in the next two decades when it comes to pension expenditure. The government doesn't even see a solution in going back to the previous system, because we don't think he was righteous. The opposition has repeatedly criticised us in the last three years, threatening Slovenian public finances with this correction of the pension system. This did not happen because they are significantly stronger than they were three years ago. And public spending declined during that time. The Slovenian economy is creating more, the more income it has, the more jobs there are, the more people it pays in the pension register, so the situation has improved. Again, the ratio between the average pension and the average wage in Slovenia is favourable when it comes to a European comparison.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. I must say that in no part of your response have I observed your concern or the government's strategy in the area of assistance to pensioners. The reality is that it requires drastic measures, measures to help people most at risk due to government measures taken in 2005, since it is not just one law and only one law, it is also a change in income, a new methodology for calculating pensions. Mr President, and allow me, if you are proud to read that, I will read 77 years old citizen of our country, a pensioner per month receives 300 euros in invalidity pension. When she pays the bills, she's left with 55 euros. Or if you are proud, Mr President, of the second fact that comes from the pension position, EUR 342,14. This is the reality, the President of the Government, who demands immediate action by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a clear strategy in this area. Can people with 56 euros, as long as they have a month left after settling emergency bills, live a decent life? I say, Mr. President of the Government, no. I don't want to go back, so my clear question was how we're going to move on from this point. And I believe that these people, too, want to move on, that they don't want to stagnate from month to month, live worse. You know, there are three important values and these values need to be built: health, work and justice. These people also have the right to live a decent life. So once again, I ask you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: How from here on out?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Before I answer this question, two categories need to be clarified: what pension is and what social assistance is. Retirement is not social assistance. Someone gets a pension for working his whole life or part of his life and paying for his pension. And based on how long he worked, what were the conditions for calculating this pension, he also received a pension. So it's not possible to say that it's unfair for someone to have been working a full retirement period and to get, say, 1,500 euros in pension today, because someone gets 3 times less, but they haven't been working a full pension. These differences are justifiable and exist everywhere. Even when it comes to various supplements, in Slovenia the level at which someone is entitled to social transfers is completely comparable to that of Europe. In the European Union, there are four countries with fewer people below this threshold of poverty. Just the information about how many pensions someone has received from the bill doesn't tell us everything about the social status of an individual. In Slovenia we pay solidarity hundreds of millions of euros in social transfers to those who are just below the poverty threshold. Of course, to someone who just gets low incomes, statistics, and that's the only thing that doesn't help much. If you give me both the bills you've shown, I'm prepared to charge both of those amounts from my salary to the end of this term. But I also invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, if that's a solution, then I'll say that our journey is a bad one. Or if this is your only solution, then I'll say it's a long time until the election. Too long. I'd be happy to hand you both the ticket. Don't use statistics. Here is the reality, the reality of 77 years old woman who has worked her entire life, you have correctly identified, yes, it is not a social transfer, it is a pay-out, a pension that should be decent and fair. This woman gets 300 euros in pensions. She lives alone, pays her rent. These, respected Prime Minister of the Government, are real problems in our society, which require a clear strategy, a clear strategy, what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will do in the area of continuous, monthly, renewed degradation of pensioners, those pensioners with minimum financial resources. I'm a long way from envying your salary. I believe you deserve to work 24 hours a day. But I would still ask you to go deeper for a moment or to try to understand what it is like for these people to survive with 56 euros, as long as they remain for a month after they have settled the necessary costs they have to avoid being thrown into the road. They don't literally throw it on the road. And given that obviously there is a lack of a long-term plan strategy in the area of, if you want, including demographic pictures, I really wish, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, that on this subject also your reply, which I believe expresses some kind of cynicism, ignorance and confusion of real problems, would make this response a broader debate, even given that the Court of Auditors in the audit has pointed out that the Government is making catastrophic mistakes in the field of social care. Seniors, everything writes, the government doesn't have, the government doesn't provide, the government doesn't cover needs, etc. This is reality, Mr. President. Please, if you support the proposal to hold a broad debate today on your answer or rather, misleading. Don't take responsibility for a time when it's too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you. On the proposal of Mrs Zgajner Tavš to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to her question, the National Assembly will decide today, in accordance with the timing of the vote. The fourth and last question will be posed by the Magi. Janez Kramberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The question I have presented to the President of the Government is practically or almost identical to that raised by colleague Weber of the SD Group. Maybe a little something to refresh your memory about the income law. You know what that law looked like when we adopted it in the previous term. I wonder what it would be like to have that law, what it meant for agriculture and what it meant to implement this law today, which we have adopted in this mandate. In this mandate, we have tightly corrected the law on income. We have exempted the taxation of investments and certain subsidies. Of course, some subsidies remained in the taxation system. And then we were given some assurance that there would be a proposed Cadastrian Income Act, in which we would resolve these issues that have occurred now that some of the taxpayers have received the receipts, and of course that does not mean that they will pay that in the income forecast. And perhaps it would be appropriate, Mr President, to further explain how these cases of debtors, which included the average amounts of subsidies to this informational income calculation for 2007, will be remedied. In fact, they did not invest at all, received no subsidies or applied for agricultural subsidies. Furthermore, if you can answer: Will it be necessary to amend the Income Act in the sense of exempting agricultural subsidies from taxation? If we look at the structure of Slovenian agriculture, which is completely incompatible with the structure of agriculture in the EU-15 Member States, where the structure is so possessive, educated and old structure is completely different and incompatible with our structure. Given that we are in a common European agricultural policy and are virtually no longer able to influence this policy, it is only a tax mechanism with which we can regulate the income situation of agriculture. And here's one possibility that we can also arrange this in amending the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you for asking. To make it clear what frameworks we are talking about, first of all, that agricultural subsidies according to data for 2006 represent around 60% of income from private or private agricultural activities, which is an over-half share; in the 2006 figure, this was over EUR 100 million and around EUR 130 million. The current legislation already allows for the exemption of certain subsidies from taxation. It is the implementation of agricultural and environmental programmes, farming in less favourable positions or in areas with restrictive factors, support for young farmers and also for some investment support, as well as almost a third of direct payments - where the implementation of agricultural and environmental conditions in the field of soil protection is concerned. Is it possible to take any further steps, this analysis, which we are now doing after the first complete year of implementation of the tax reform, will show. In fact, at this year's levy on income, it is said that those who did not receive the subsidy do not receive the flat-rate benefit. This subsidy does not need to be amended by legislation, I say again. After it was shown that some of these false notifications had been sent to the debtors and, when it was pointed out, a number of activities had been carried out that prevented us from actually taxing something that the debtors had not received. We also discussed this precisely with the representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, and I myself was present at this discussion and we have found that this problem can be resolved without amending the legislation. Technical meetings have also been held where arrangements have been adopted that have already led to the data exchange activities between the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Affairs and the Tax Administration, so that these data on recipients of subsidies will be automatically transferred or have already been mainly carried out and that the system will in fact take into account only the funds received, not the possible flat rate for those who have neither requested nor received them. Therefore, this part of the problem does not need to be amended by legislation. The technical activities that will solve the problem are ongoing and no one will pay the income for the subsidy they did not receive.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you. We have thus concluded the questions raised by Members and Members to the President of the Government. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume in five minutes, which is at 2.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u149	Members and Members of Parliament, please take your seats. Please also check the operation of the voting device. Once again, I ask all those who cannot hear me, even though they see me! We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act in the context of the regular procedure. Members who stand at the door and have a lively debate to end the debate and join us in the vote. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Health Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 35, for 15. [[It's a 35-year-old vote.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present for 56, against no one. [[It's 56 votes.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the implementation of fostering activities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the implementation of fostering activities is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups, so far only one deadline, i.e. only one explanation, Mrs Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I'll try to be brief. At the outset, I regret that those who have announced support for this bill are not present in the vote, at least to the extent promised. Allow me, however, to ask once again for the support of those who are in this Chamber. This is a small change, which I believe can have a very positive effect on those who are most affected throughout the story, and this is undoubtedly children who are entitled to maintenance. In the Lipa Group, we propose that, because of high inflation, constant inflation as some kind of social adjustment, if you want, these countries that have this option should be amended to barrol their livelihoods twice a year. If one of the colleagues in the presentation of the Group's views on this law said that the Government has made great progress in coordinating transfers - all well and well, I do not see progress in this law, but let us make this progress in thinking and in moving also within the framework of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Once again, it's a slight change. A little change that can make a lot of people better, I don't know, every day, maybe tomorrow. In short, we propose that maintenance be coordinated twice a year instead of once a year with rising prices of living needs. And one more point I would like to stress is that there have been a lot of deceptions in the presentation of the positions. This law has no financial implications on public finances and on the budget, but has a positive impact on those who are beneficiaries under this law. In short, the law has positive effects and I ask you once again for your support. In the Lipa Group, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 31 votes against 35. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on arbitration. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u152	Thank you very much. As the President of the National Assembly has said, we continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Arbitration Law under the ordinary procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Land Book in the framework of the ordinary procedure. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour on the draft law, it was not possible to make an application for a meeting of the assembly of amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. In doing so, I inform you that the proposal for a law on the grounds of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body is inconsistent. The government has prepared a harmonisation amendment for the new Article 17a and for the 22nd Article you received on the bench. I give the floor to a representative of the government on the harmonisation amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. As already mentioned, because there was an expected lack of coordination, there are two harmonisation amendments that are being tabled in front of you. For a new Article 17a: a new Article 17a is added for Article 17, which reads as follows: In Article 164, the second and third paragraphs are deleted. Article 22 is amended as follows: In Article 173, first, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you very much for the very substantive explanation. Does any of the Members want a word? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. That is why we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the 4th paragraph, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Geodetic Activities in the framework of the regular procedure. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to make an application for an amendment to the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with paragraph 5 which is the third reading of the Bill of Amendments to the Notariat Act under the ordinary procedure. As the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, no third reading amendments can be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. This time, too, the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 6th point, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Floor Property on the proposal of the acquirer of the individual part of the building and on the determination of the corresponding land to the building under the regular procedure. As the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, no third reading amendments can be tabled. That is why we can also move here to decide on the proposal for a law. Before that, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure in the framework of the regular procedure. On Thursday, 24 April 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting of the assembly. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I also inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendment would have made the law inconsistent. That is why we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads, urgent procedure. The bill is inconsistent with the amendments adopted. The government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 9, which you received on the bench. I give the floor to a representative of the government who has just joined us. A colleague of Pecan's, procedurally? Introductory explanation first. Secretary of State, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you very much. In the first paragraph, the words "with vehicles having a maximum permissible mass not exceeding 3,500 kilograms" are replaced by the words "with motor vehicles having a maximum permissible mass not exceeding 3,500 kilograms, irrespective of the maximum permissible mass of the trailer". In the second paragraph, the words "vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3500 kilograms" shall be replaced by the words "motor vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3500 kilograms, irrespective of the maximum permissible mass of the trailer". Just a quick explanation. As the third amendment to Article 1 and the first amendment to Article 2 were adopted at the plenary session of the National Assembly in the second reading, it was consequently inconsistent with the text of Article 9(1) and (2). We are removing the discrepancy in the text of the law with the proposed harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Now, I am opening the application, please apply for the debate on the harmonisation amendment that the Secretary of State has just submitted to us. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u157	I would ask the Secretary of State to say quite simply how much the motor vehicle will pay, which has an unlimited maximum permissible mass of the trailer, and whether this means that a 30-ton tank can be brought in front of the tollbooth.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I have to say, [[...]] [[Commenting in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u160	I'm asking for peace in the hall. He has only a word and only a member of the House of Pecans.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u161	The amendments which have been adopted and which have required this harmonisation amendment to be proposed are not funny at all. [[...]] Of course, the question was a bit humorous, but I would really like to ask - of course, I have not much knowledge about this - how much weight of the trailer is allowed, I am not talking about the vignettes now, and I am not talking about the toll, but I am talking about the technical question; how much weight of the trailer is allowed, the truck itself three and a half tons. In fact, in my opinion, this is not a similar weight ratio to when we are talking about a passenger car carrying a trailer, where a trailer must not exceed the weight of the car it is carrying. In this case, however, when we are talking about a truck whose engine can have very high power, three and a half tons of heavy vehicle can, in my behaviour, pull or carry a trailer with additional wheels that can weigh up to ten tons. What is the point of this question? In that trucks, de facto lorries, will be able to travel 13 tonnes by 55 euros per year, several times on our highways. Is that the objective of this amendment? I have already warned in the debate about this amendment that it is a matter of simply avoiding payment of the actual burden of motorways in Slovenia. And you know what that can mean? This can mean that foreigners who are finally bent can share their cargo in such a way that instead of going 50 times on our highways and where we should pay not know how many hundreds of euros, they can go with 55 euros with a vineyard 50 times on our highways from Italy to Hungary and back. I think there's something wrong here: or I don't know what to do and what not to do - I'm talking about the safety of the load, etc. - or you are so under the influence of a freighter's lobby that you agree to such avoidance of the obligation to pay for the loading of motorways. I think the basic amendment is already flawed, but the government seems to be agreeing to it, and I find it insufferable! And here it is in fact - let me enlighten you, Mr Secretary of State, explain to me that I am not at all in these doubts and that I am a stupid woman who has no idea what freight traffic means. Let me explain this so that I can vote peacefully for this harmonisation amendment. Otherwise, I will be sure of myself that you want to bring us all together thirsty over water and that we will allow the truckers to be ours, not the ones we save, for the last time, but for all those who will have to pay the blames now, but never pay the tolls before, because they didn't have to pay us now for their tolling highways.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. All these things were very nice and well explained yesterday. Of course, what a vehicle can carry is regulated by the Road Traffic Safety Act. And only if you look at the legislation as a whole can there be an appropriate and reasoned debate on the topic ahead of us today. But that's not really what this is about. It is already tragic that the opposition, the transition opposition with the SD at the helm, draws all possible and impossible quasi arguments, and I strongly suggest that they support the law, which is good and appropriate and brings a good solution to the release of traffic along Slovenian highways in a rational and European way. And let them stop showing this tragic pool, which is "forty transitional foxes and sour grapes of vinjets," which they have never hoped to introduce in their mandates in the LDS and SD governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Given that there were quite a few raised deadlines, I am reopening the application procedure. Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First of all, I thank Mr Grimes for his work as a government representative. But I would really like to ask the government, given that it was already here yesterday, like there is no silhouette for doing good or bad impressions - as it is for someone - the same is happening today to really explain whether Mrs Pecanov is right or wrong. It'll be enough, get up and say it's wrong, and we'll all be happy, we'll settle down - one of you blindly believes it after the look. As far as I know you, Mr. Secretary of State, you're a professional man. Shall I ask you what was up for lunch today, if you had a good time on tour after the National Assembly? Do your job, earn your salary, and that's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle, let me guess. Your procedural proposal is to actively involve the Secretary of State. Is that right? Is that your suggestion? I guess I was wrong. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u167	Mr President, you know, no matter how much you know about my person, it is true that my procedural proposal is the same. And I'm asking you, in order to avoid this discussion with my colleagues, to get an answer from the government. I asked a very simple question. Now we can discuss him a lot, but there's no point in us discussing him. The point is that the Government will explain its amendment to us or you will vote on this amendment - in favour or against, regardless of whether you understand it or do not understand it. I can understand him one way or another. And that's why I want to ask the Secretary of State if we already have him here, if we already have him here, to explain to us: how much is the maximum mass of the trailer that can still be taken along Slovenian highways to the usual vineyards? Just tell us that. But if you don't know, take a break, go home and ask the experts to meet us next time. It's very simple. And of course, my procedural proposal is that we have an active government and that an active government understands its amendments and answers the questions of Members and Members, so that we will not have the discussion that we have heard today in interpretation. The Prime Minister of the Government told Mr Webru - there is no need to pay, even if it is written in law. That's what I say, Janez Janša. Wait a minute! Yesterday we listened to the President of the Republic explaining what the rule of law was. Today, however, we listened to the President of the Government, who explained - no, no, no, even if it was written in marriage, there is no need to pay. But people get income decisions. And now, of course, we're going to write an amendment into the law to pay so much and so much regardless of the trailer mass. And then we'll have a debate about it, right there in the customs office, because Janez Janša will tell you whether or not to pay. That's what this is about! That is why we are the legislative branch of power and therefore at least respect the rules of procedure. If the government doesn't know the answer, let's stop the debate, Comrade Grimes, we don't have to discuss it, let them tell us, or cancel us - the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Of course, I can agree with your content. I can ask the Secretary of State to actively participate in the debate, and I cannot ask him to do so on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Mr State Secretary, on behalf of a better law, I ask you to answer the question raised and, of course, resolve the dilemma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u169	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd say it's a compliance amendment. The two amendments were adopted yesterday, but today the issue is that the non-compliance of the law with the harmonisation amendment is aligned, and I think this is the answer. However, all the substantive dilemmas were resolved yesterday when the two amendments were discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u170	The Secretary of State is probably also aware that yesterday there was also no discussion by the Government. But we continue on the basis of a list of applicants. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. I wanted to point out in the introduction that, yesterday, not one reply from the representatives of the Government has been submitted to our questions. Even if we are talking about this harmonisation amendment, let me just refresh my memory, in the second reading, the National Assembly has decided that vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of not more than 3,500 kilograms may drive with vignettes if the vehicle they can switch over does not exceed 4,250 kilograms. Thus, a limit of 4,250 kilograms has been set, taking into account whether the vehicle will be driven on the basis of winnies or tolls as well as freight vehicles. Today and even yesterday the dilemma opened, but that does not mean allowing fraud. Are we not legitimizing fraud in toll payments - or with vignettes, or on the basis of an electronic toll system? In fact, it is certainly possible that a vehicle weighing 3,500 kilograms and still able to drive with winjets can attach a trailer weighing, say, 2,000 kilograms or 3,000 kilograms, and, of course, loads the road as much as an actual cargo vehicle weighing more than 3,500 kilograms. I am sure that many will use it directly to transport on the highways of a vehicle, which, by the way, weighs up to 3,500 kilograms, but will be attached to a trailer with perhaps two, three or, as Colleague Breda said, 10,000 kilograms of heavy cargo. The burdens on the vehicles are of course exceptional, the damage will be as great as it would be, this damage will have to be remedied, the means to maintain motorways, we do not know what they will be like at the time of the introduction of the vineyards, because the concession contract also changes, so I do not say even the cancellation, which specifies exactly how much toll the toll is also intended for maintenance. Of course, even if we can somehow substantiate the fact that it is obvious that it is a trucking lobby, we can also conclude that the Government adopted a decision yesterday at its meeting introducing additional reliefs for the transport of trucks. Indeed, in the prepaid toll payment system with Darsa's "transporter" card, the lower limit has been paid, the credit on this card, which recognises the maximum 13% discount, decreases from the current 830 euros to 400 euros. This is the government's contribution to how we will effectively maintain our motorways. Again, I stress that we are putting all this together mainly on those who do not have a highway and do not use it at all, and these will be those who will cover these differences and these inconsistencies and distort the subsidies that the Government also wants to legislate under this public road law by means of this harmonisation amendment. I think it is better for the law to remain inconsistent and to reject it at the final stage than to confirm this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič spoke on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u173	Well, I think that, Mr President, at this point we can turn again to the Secretary of State, Dr Verlic, because he has called in between "Mommy or Tramwajkomando" and I think he has received an answer so that we can continue the debate after the previous question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u174	Once again, the Secretary of State or representatives of the Government may be involved in the debate at any time. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I hope that the further discussion will be less offensive and that the procedural proposals will be substantive, but I do not know what is being drawn. We are discussing the harmonisation amendment to Article 9, and I propose that those who passed 40 years ago a category B driving test go to see the road safety law and see what a passenger vehicle can do under this law. What it can do if it has brakes on the trailer, what is more difficult to talk about, and what it can do if it does not have brakes on the trailer. And it is equally likely that the same road safety law states that for the category of driving a semi-trailer or truck up to 3,500 kilograms should be – which category? Let all those who ask give themselves the answer; I know which category. And the same law defines what and what weight this vehicle can carry back. The Road Safety Act says again if this trailer has drum brakes if it has disc brakes and I don't know what. So you can't drive anything in the back. And as we will have, as today, due to the overload - a truck registered to drive, say a 40-ton truck, every so long the police, I think that I should stop it several times, put it on a scale and find out whether it exceeds the basic pressure or not and it will "crush" it, and the police or possibly those we called road controllers will find out whether this vehicle - when we wrote "no matter of the maximum permissible mass of the trailer", this maximum permissible mass of the trailer is defined in the road safety law and therefore I do not know why such a shout and scream. A personal car, if you do not want to break the law, must not drive more than 650 kilograms of weight in the trailer than it did. And I will personally support this proposal for a harmonisation amendment to Article 9 of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u177	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the amendment and I think the fears of the Social Democrats are unjustifiable. For I note that they wrongly equate their client to align European trucks with their party of Social Democrats, which has weak towing horses and extremely difficult political and historical baggage. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] The toll paid for this baggage is always skillful and undemocratic. [[...]] This baggage is also the reason for their opposition to positive solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u178	Thank you very much. You've been preparing for a speech for a long time? I'm reopening the application procedure. Member Branko Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u179	Thank you. They say it's enough to say things normally in society for once. Apparently, we need it more than once. However, because the thread had already gotten lost from what Mr Squeakl had previously said, while, however, the presidents, you did the right thing. I have overlooked that Mr Squeakl, with his actual substantive debate and the abuse of the procedure, baptized him for a procedural proposal and that is why you could not allow a replica. However, just to shed light on one point, because he directly mentioned me, he was speaking the untruth. In fact, he also spoke about the rule of law and at the same time discussed the decisions on income. Of course, everyone who knows things knows that at this point in time, when it comes to income payments, people have only received informational calculations. And the IT calculation is not a decision by any chance and Mr. Squeakl was deliberately misleading the public. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u180	My colleague Grims, the harmonisation amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u181	It says he's not an ignorant person, but it's a planned job and he's shown it, and it's true for the whole part of it, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u182	Comrade Grimes, we're under the Public Road Act. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u183	, what is essentially the new quality of the SD with which they boast: one swindle and the planned spread of false truths. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Member Pavel Gantar has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I listened thoroughly to my colleague Bajc's explanation, which he gave in essence instead of the Secretary of State, but I am not satisfied with his explanation, even though I understand what he was going to say. In fact, this sentence, "no matter the maximum permissible mass of the trailer", is questionable and should at least be an amendment to the Road Traffic Safety Act, at least this binding "by law" and so on - however, should be technically regulated. Therefore, you want or don't want an amendment so designed wipes the difference between vehicles that will be towed with vignettes and on some narrow segment with vehicles that will be electronically tolled. This, of course, is not good and allows speculation. In addition, I would have added that I have carefully studied the plan of introducing tolling with vignettes in the Republic of Slovenia for R1 and R2 vehicle classes - I had to ask the Ministry twice and thank everyone for the ministry - and I would say this: I have studied this and we have only one question because I was not involved in the discussion and I was not included, I apologize if this is very banal for all the other issues. The price of an annual vignette costs 55 euros - tax or no taxes? Whether the tax is included and therefore Darsa’s income in this case is 20% lower and the complete study does not apply because the revenue has been miscalculated. If it's 55 plus tax, that means that the price of guilt is 66 euros and 42 and a half years. Tax or no tax? Did you ask that question? Did you get an answer to that question? Do you know this question and the answer to it? Well, tax or no tax, Mr. Secretary of State. 55 euros with or without taxes?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We've got a few more applications. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u187	Thank you. Otherwise, I think it would be right, because it is a decision in the form of an income decision. But here I would insist on the question I asked before. There's no talk in the Road Traffic Safety Act about the permissible weight of the trailer, you know. The point is that trailers are such that they have some axes, so they can spin, they can't spin, they can't spin, they can't spin, they can't spin, they can't spin. The talk is about a towing vehicle with up to 3,500 kilograms or more than 3,500 kilograms and its speed, but there is no talk, please, about the weight of the towed vehicle - it is said to be a trailer fitted to a vehicle with up to 3,500 kilograms. The point is that if the trailer does not reach more than 750 kilograms, category B examination is required. But if it's bigger, it's a C or a D category. It's not important, mostly for trucks. It is said that there is no answer, we cannot find it in the Road Traffic Safety Act, so I would ask those colleagues who are teaching me where to look for a regulation or a permissible weight to tell me where this law is now, because thank God I have a computer in front of me and I can find it. However, I think it would be much easier if this information were told by the Secretary of State, because it is at the Ministry of Transport and probably from the hands of stress. Why won't he say it? I think that if I ask the Secretary of State that I don't need clarifications from the Members who have adopted these laws, but they certainly don't remember what they say. And they're also giving me information that's wrong because it's not in the law that they listed, but somewhere else, I don't know where. But that's not what he's into! I have searched everything it says about the switch vehicle - there is no number on the permissible weight of the trailer on the towing vehicle with 3,500 kilograms of permissible total weight! So please! Tell me, and I insist that this is about the circuitry for those who want it. Because, you know, I can only imagine. If a towing vehicle of up to 3,500 kilograms drives empty, without a trailer - without further ado, there is no problem to pay only the vignette. As soon as he has a trailer behind him, let him pay the toll like all the other trucks. I don't see any other explanation. Please, let's be honest with each other and especially with those who have trucks, but they have no chance of avoiding toll payments per mile, not with vignette.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you. You've got a replica of your colleague Squeakl - on whom? To Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u189	I'm reciting to my colleague Grimes. I quote: "The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Tax Office of Kočevje in the matter of the assessment of the obligation of agriculture issues the following decision." Decision!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u190	Comrade Squeakle, if I made a mistake and allowed Mr Grimes to go on another subject, I'm sorry, I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u191	I just want to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u192	I won't let you. We're in the public roads law. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u193	I just want to explain in the replica [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u194	Allow us, however, to remain at least under the same law, if not under the same article, as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would require of me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u195	That's why, of course, I'd ask [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u196	Thank you very much. [[...]] Comrade Squeakle, please, you'll have your word when you sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I want to tell Mr. Grimes that, of course, I have a decision to make. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u198	Member Janko Weber has the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. I would only like to explain to Mr Jerovsk, given his debate, that there will indeed be no greater burden than the Social Democrats will have taken over after this mandate, when we will have to carry the burden of public finances due to excessive indebtedness. Mainly because of the four-and-a-half-billion-euro motorways, there will be burdens that we will not manage with these vineyards, and if we add very high inflation to them, these are very serious issues that truly represent an enormous burden on how we can lead the development of Slovenia into the future. Of course, this is an extremely big challenge, but at the same time an unnecessary burden arising from the adoption of such a law as is now in the process of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thank you very much. There's probably no warning. Procedurally, mate Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u201	I would suggest a 45-minute break to focus the debate a little bit. I would just like to remind you that today is Friday and that some of us still have the Committee on European Union Affairs, where we will deal with two important mothers - just so that the debate can focus a little bit more on matters, just to help the president.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u202	Thank you very much. To the extent that the Members did not know that, after the meeting, they were still sitting in the home or working body of the National Assembly, they have now taken place. Can we move on? A colleague of the school, a circle or a procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u203	Unlike Mr Kokal, I would not suggest 45 minutes, but I think it's time that in this show we have here with the Secretary of State to allow him a so-called emergency call. And I propose that our Group of Members take five minutes for him to call and answer the relevant questions so that we can continue the meeting. In short, our parliamentary group is asking for a five-minute recess so that the Secretary of State can make an emergency call.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u204	Comrade Školč, I know that according to the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members may take a recess just before the vote. I propose that we try to round up the content around the complementary amendment, the harmonisation amendment. Anyone else in connection with the harmonisation amendment? Yeah. I'm opening a new application circuit, please. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u205	Well, I think this proposal for an emergency call is better than having the voice of the people; the voice of the people will be in the fall. But, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, if you read the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it will not be clear to you any more, as it is probably not clear to the Secretary of State. So, Mr. Secretary of State, once again my question: what will you do if this amendment is adopted if the motor of the truck, the steering wheel and the driver, is brought to the front of the toll station, and the mass of the front section will not be more than 3,500 kilograms? What are you gonna do then? Because this can happen. It's kind of weird for us, but, you know, when you have an interest in passing through a customs office, you'll find a lot of ways. Therefore, I find it incredible that the Government has decided to prepare such a harmonisation amendment. The harmonisation amendment could also be that the mass remains 3,500 kilograms. Why did you decide to go to the so-called undefined field, how much the final mass of the attached cargo is, of course, according to everything that was said, additionally burdens the axle and so on. That's why it's unacceptable. I don't know if you remember, fellows, a few years ago we were transporting the so-called large spare parts for the nuclear power plant. If you define that front vehicle slightly differently, you will have to pay 55 euros of blame for it. That's all the content. And I asked a very exact question. It may have seemed humorous because you're used to asking humorous questions, but it's a very serious matter. I don't understand the harmonisation amendment, and because I want to make a decision on my behaviour with the facts, I want a simple response from the Government, which doesn't know the answer. That is why I join: in any case, it is better to call in power than the voice of the people in the autumn - it catches you anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u206	Procedural proposal, colleague Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm usually used to you, otherwise with smaller cartridges, to try to drive us in the direction and to deal with what's being dealt with. At this point, I assess that we are discussing everything else, not the third reading harmonisation amendment, namely the harmonisation amendment to Article 9, which has two points. And I suggest, fellows, that we also read Article 3 and read Article 3, paragraph 4, which is not an amendment, which says: "Buying and using the prescribed means of using vinyl allows for driving a vehicle whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3,500 kilograms, or a total vehicle whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 4,250 kilograms, on all roads referred to in Article 11, paragraph 5, of this Law, during the following period..." and then onward. Let's talk about the content of the harmonisation amendment, not about VAT or VAT. When I pay the toll, when I drive from Ljubljana to Postojno, I will pay 2.01 euros, with VAT. Neither does the harmonisation amendment refer to VAT, whether or not VAT is present. I propose, President, in a procedural manner, that you try to continue the debate in this direction in order to address the harmonisation amendment, because yesterday we had almost a four-hour debate on the content of the individual articles. And if only it is possible to hold a debate now on the harmonisation amendment to Article 9 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you very much. In my opinion, of course, your proposal is smart. However, all the discussions so far could have been avoided if the Secretary of State was prepared to respond. We have to be aware of that. Comrade Bostian Zagorac, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. You took the word out of my mouth. This debate is simply taking so long as the Government is gone. We have a picture, but we don't have a tone. I don't know why, but I just don't believe you members of the government's coalition. Maybe practice taught me that, but this government doesn't have a government. And this picture doesn't answer the questions we Members have. The Lord is of the profession. Let's see if the ZVCP says tone or not. Or we compare the fiveton, the old "tamic" you probably remember, with the gray of one native returning for Easter holidays, loaded with four tons in the back, and the gray has a ton. It's both five tons. Are we both equal in vinjets? Don't look at me, I have a picture, answer me, please. Let's cut the debate short, answer me. Tell them we're wrong, tell them they're wrong, and we'll go vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u210	Secretary of State, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u211	Thank you very much. So, as far as this is concerned, maybe the answer is that the government doesn't have it. As I understand it, yesterday, the minister didn't get his word or checked in on time, so I apologize. As far as the harmonisation amendment is concerned, I think I have already said in my reply that the two amendments were voted yesterday, and that this is a harmonisation that is editorial in nature, so that the text of the law is in line with the amendments mentioned above. And the rest of the legal basis that defines, of course, is regulated in other legislation, this is the road safety law. As you know, however, the principles of the law have already been explained to introduce tolling with vignettes for passenger vehicles and, of course, the existing tolling method is regulated for freight vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u212	Thank you so much for making no mistake about last night's meeting with me. On the question, someone else wants to debate, there was no answer, not even the minister's, and of course I can't know what anyone is thinking. Thank you. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go, please. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Well, I think that a long time ago the debate would have been over if someone hadn't come with such a provocative one, that I wouldn't say stupid, comparing someone to come to the toll station with a "bicycle" and drags a tanker behind them. I, my colleague, would like to suggest that the next session will be a budget rebalancing session, and then let yourself be included in the debate, not to say such a comparison. The harmonisation amendment is quite clear, and I think that colleague Bajc is twice or will explain once again what it means to fix it. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you. And he signed up for the replica with his friend Squeakl.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u215	I promised, I didn't sign up anymore, but I have to replicate. Mr. Mikolitch, look! I don't know how you understand the harmonisation amendment, but it says here, "no matter the maximum permissible mass of the trailer." And because this isn't limited? [[...]] I asked a very simple question. How limited it is in the back - because it says here that it will not be limited. And what does it mean if in Slovenia there will be what I had two cases for and a pairer motor vehicle with some big load, which all goes beyond a few more tons. And, my friend, the representative of Lipa just gave another case - "tamica". Fortunately, the Minister of Transport has joined us, and I believe he will answer us correctly. So, I interrupt my replica to Mr. Mikolitch. Listen carefully to the Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u216	Thank you very much. In the meantime, the minister joined us. Welcome. However, Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u217	Thank you very much. It is practically not worth answering the confused and stupid hypothetical questions of my colleagues, because such a hypothetical vehicle as he puts it here, for technical reasons, for technical regulations and safety regulations, must not appear on the road and will not appear. A vehicle like this wouldn't even drag all your nonsense. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] And this thinking and behavior is not as harmful as the industrial espionage you introduced with the aim of destroying Gorenje and Gorenje brand. [[...]] There's a lot of money going around in industrial espionage, and I don't know what you have against Velenj, why you want to quit jobs in Gorenje. What do you have against the Velenjs?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u218	Comrade Jerovšek! Please, if you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u219	Yeah, you should ask him to do the damage there, do the damage here, and [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you very much. But he's with us, as we say, Minister. At this point, I will give my word to the Minister. Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for your word. Yesterday, unfortunately, I was too late to raise my hands, but I couldn't comment on your questions, your thoughts, and I'm very sorry about that. However, as regards the problem now in this amendment, I would like to say that as far as trailers drawn by passenger vehicles are concerned, motor vehicles, of course, are all defined in the Road Safety Act. This means that, of course, a passenger vehicle that has 1,200 kilograms or a ton of half can't carry a 10-ton trailer. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] This has never happened before. [[...]] I don't know a case like this. It will also not happen now, and I see no reason why this would, given that this is very accurately written in the Road Safety Act and it is clear to everyone why this would now be a particular problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Were all the Members and Members present pleased with the Minister's explanation? Can I interrupt the debate? [[No, no, ……]] Given that you object to the proposal. The word is yours, Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u223	What I found in the Road Traffic Safety Act is the fifth paragraph, I don't know which article, just a moment to see if you won't say, Article 149, where it says: "category B plus E consists of a group of vehicles consisting of a category B motor vehicle which has been added to it by a trailer whose maximum permissible mass exceeds the mass of a towed vehicle or if the maximum permissible mass of that group of vehicles exceeds 3,500 kilograms. I would ask, for the first time, the minister, where it says that a tow truck that reaches, is not supposed to exceed 3,500 kilograms, must not attach a trailer here we are not talking about passenger cars, Mr. Minister. [[...]] Here we are talking about motor vehicles which are towing vehicles and have, under this law, driving test categories, I found no other vehicle, and if, as I have already told you, if you will enlighten me and tell me in which article it says that a tow truck of up to 3,500 kilograms must not be fitted, under certain technical conditions, a trailer of 7,000 kilograms of total weight. What do I want to tell you with this question all the time? Let's say a car carrier with only one truck that can't be divided into two parts and has a total weight of seven tons, he's going to have to pay his toll every day when he's driving on some route across the highway. And it's going to take it for him, I don't know how many hundreds of euros a year. I have no idea what those tolls are. While someone who has a tow truck and will put on it three and a half tons or four tons of heavy trailer, with a load, will have seven tons or seven and a half tons of heavy truck, which will have a sticker on it and will say, "I am, please, a vehicle up to three tons and a half with an unlimited trailer and therefore I can ride on a winch." Yeah, great. Here's what's causing the problem. I don't know if it's allowed to drive 10 tons. I don't know, and I don't care. The fact is, I care that one who has 7 tons and a half of a normal truck and the other, which has a two-part truck, will be in a completely different position.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I can also see that you have a desire to discuss it, which means we're going to open up a reappealing circle. Here you go, please. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u225	Thank you very much. As it turns out, neither I nor Mr. Secretary had a chance to speak yesterday. I would really, I apologize, ask a very simple question. The price is €55, which is €35 half a year. Does it contain value added tax in the price or not? If so, then Mr. Secretary, you miscalculated the accounts you gave in the study. Revenues should be 20% lower. Then Darsu's income from the 55 euro price is 20% lower.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u226	Can we close the debate? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for whom 42 votes against 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation or procedural, Comrade Skolcz?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Otherwise, I won't protest because the secretary of state called my mother and it didn't take five minutes, but you did the wrong thing because you didn't give us that five-minute break. We are still in a situation where we accept something we do not know will have consequences. I also use these two seconds to say that the House of Members in principle opposes this and we hope that another Member will join this opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Explanations to the voice. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. In the Law on Public Roads, I would like to reiterate on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats that we have repeatedly warned that this is a reckless change in the toll system in Slovenia. Such swift solutions, which are mainly linked to the electoral campaign, and in fact to what we need in Slovenian transport, are not the right solution. We would like to point out once again that at least we wanted to improve the situation of those who do not have highways and who drive daily to work or to hospitals to relieve them of toll payments because they simply do not have highways. We would also like to add to this the warnings already coming from areas where they will have problems due to significantly more expensive toll than today, because, say, in the area of Nova Gorica, it is very clear that traffic is very intense in the area of the former border crossing, where it goes to work on both sides of very many workers, both Slovenians and Italians. They drive to work daily and use part of the road to Rondo in Gorica as the only possible access to jobs. And a comparison. In Italy, of course, the border area is exempted from tolling. So we are unfair to those cities that have bypasses that have fast roads to connect to the highway system, and we will be the inhabitants of all these cities that drive daily to work after unnecessary burdens of 35 or even 55 euros. Today, when this toll system is not in these areas, the use of these roads was free of charge. So it is a day-to-day migration, it is the functioning of cities, which we are actually changing through the introduction of vignettes and burdening them primarily at the unnecessary or express request of the government to change the tolling system solely because it does not want to upgrade the existing tolling system and lead it to an effective toll system in Slovenia. For these reasons, and also for the reasons that we have been able to follow in the harmonisation amendment, this law will in fact also allow for fraud, especially in the case of freight vehicles, we will not support the road transport law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker. First, I would apologize for the expression when I turned the kilograms into kilos, and some of my colleagues warned me. The second thing I would like to say is that when dealing with any law, it is necessary to deal with matters in a comprehensive manner. And in the meantime, I was able to look at some things. And in the previously adopted harmonisation amendment, we are talking about the maximum permissible mass of the trailer. The primary area is governed by the Road Traffic Safety Act and the subsidiary vehicle law, where technical standards for individual vehicles or trailers are precisely defined and also characterised by precisely defined kilograms. In the parliamentary group, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. I think that yesterday, in explanation of the Group's position, I have precisely explained this for a number of reasons, from ecological, economic and not least any other, which will allow personal vehicles to move freely from Šentil to Kopra at this moment without having to stop in between six times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application procedure on my own behalf. Here you go. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think computer justice has shown in my name that I'm first in line. And I am very pleased, for I, ladies and gentlemen, will vote against this law. In order to avoid misunderstandings, the current system is inappropriate and we should move as quickly as possible to the free movement tolling system, in principle: pay as much as you transport. Dars developed such a system in 2006, before he was accepted by the government and the lobbyists took him out of the agenda and put him in a drawer. Today we introduce a system, a double system, electronic tolling for trucks and vignettes for passenger cars, two systems, double costs. And since satellite tolls for passenger cars for a long time, at least ten years, will not, will remain guilty, and the vines are probably the final and final solution. Vintage, you're saying they'll remove the columns. Traffic experts say the columns are the result of increased traffic density on all roads, so the columns will not be eliminated, they will only move them. And more than that. As they move, technical conditions and safety conditions will deteriorate particularly in the current systems. Therefore, the inspector should have stopped mainly tolling at the extreme right edge of exports and imports and so on. The vinjet system is unfair. Those who drive less pay for those who drive more. This system, I am sure, will be discussed during this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u234	Thank you. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia became a full member of the European Union on 1 May 2004, and will soon be four years. That's what we all wanted, and that's what we've all decided. Of course, this integration into the European Union has brought not only positive but also negative effects. One of the negative is that traffic flows have been redefined in Slovenia at least on the road network. On some roads, if we only look at freight traffic, it has increased by more than factor 4. This solution that we are going to decide on today and positively decide, I hope to predict it, is not a "horoque" solution, but a solution that is planned. What does the coalition contract say? I quote: The use of road infrastructures will in the future be based on actual consumption, round-up, free-flow tolling. The coalition will therefore accelerate activities to ensure electronic tolling in the free movement of transport, in line with EU plans in this area. We know what the plans are. We know what stage they're at, we know. During the transitional period, the coalition will explore the possibility of introducing vignettes at the point of the tolls in order to ensure the use of roads, in particular highways, which are the safest, as far as possible, to the wider range of people due to the burden of toll collection costs and due to the increased flow of traffic on motorways. For a transitional period, the coalition will support this solution if it proves economically justified. So everything is carefully planned and carefully thought out. I will support this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u236	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u237	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would very quickly lean on my colleague Bajc for the comprehensive response we have received. Last but not least, it is not in vain to warn the Lipa Group from the outset that this government is in poor cadres. This meeting looked very clairvoyant, I must say. On six questions about this law on my part, I have received many answers. Nothing. Minister, I don't know who you're going to apologize to. Your secretary is on top of you, and then you two can talk to each other. I am also interested in or know that for freight traffic in this country, the freeway will not change anything. One of my questions was why Slovenia did not decide, even though for two years, for the so-called "go boxing system". You didn't answer that either. You probably don't know if there's anything else in here. The price of guilt is the one to decide. And in terms of very narrow financial means, people will drive on Slovenian roads cheaper. It's not right that you've introduced the faults for the carriageways because you want to squeeze it somewhere. When I asked you where you would find the difference between the current collection of money and the vineyards, you were silent. You and your secretary of state. They both looked at me like they didn't know what it was. And I'd like to point it out again. We will not oppose the law in the Lip Group of Members, but we do not want any further consideration of any law that we have a German government because we do not need a picture. We need a tone and answers like that when Comrade Bajc gave them to us. And if you're not able to do that, first go after the instructions to those who get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u238	Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u239	I cannot support the law because it goes against the basic principle of the EU, which is that the user should pay. This is the same story as the average of agricultural land subsidies. It's the exact same story. In particular, the citizens of the city’s municipalities, of all major crossings, especially the Ljubljana City Congregation, Maribor, of all those who could only travel once a year, either to Brezje or to the sea, pay those few euro tolls, will now charge EUR 55 for those who use highways to be subsidised. That's right. In Slovenia we have a system that encourages people to drive relatively far. And maybe it's a good thing that you give these people a gift in pre-election time. However, hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who have so far not been burdened with these €55, will be burdened by a new one. Not to mention all those millions of European citizens who, like the last few days, will hear about our grandmothers and mother-in-law and so on, who want to take our children who are not minors across the border, suddenly pay an extra wine fee. Slovenia has entered the Schengen border, we have abolished Europe's borders at our northern border, and now we will introduce a wine border. The principles of as much accuracy as possible, the user principle pays and the principle of sustainability of funding are violated in this rapid solution and I will therefore oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u240	Thank you very much. However, a colleague of Matthew Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I will support this law because I think it is simply not true to subsidize those personal vehicles with this law that drive a lot. Unfortunately, the truth is quite the opposite. All passenger cars in Slovenia are subsidised mainly by foreign trucks, which daily burden the Slovenian motorway network. Therefore, I am sorry that the amendment of the Zares Group was not adopted, with which tolls for freight vehicles would be set at 32 cents, as in Austria. And if the problem concerns Slovenian trucks, they can be unloaded with additional investment facilities. It is not, however, the honourable Members and Members, any logic that Slovenian taxpayers, Slovenian drivers, subsidise foreign trucks. Ukrainian carriers, Romanian, Russian, all of this rains from day to day on Slovenian highways. I don't know how you can't see that. And the fact is, if you look at the cost structure, you see that trucks only contribute 40% to total tolls. That's absolutely too little. I also proposed this amendment because I am afraid that if there is to be a 14-day introduction of vineyards, then, of course, the price of an annual and a half-year-old for this. And we could avoid that by raising tolls for trucks. Unfortunately, we didn't do it. In any case, to say that this system that we now have is just, I'm sorry, but that's not true. That's not true. That's what we all know. If you travel from Velenje to Šentjur for the same number of kilometres transported, do not pay anything on the highway, but if you go to Vransko, there is a toll station. And there's a whole bunch of these cases. And those most subsidizing foreign trucks, foreign trucks, are passenger vehicles drivers from Styria, drivers from Savinja Valley, drivers from Primorska, drivers from Dolenjska. So I think from this point of view it is right that this law is also supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u242	Thank you. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u243	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'll support the marriage. The introduction of vinjets, I call it the introduction of free traffic flows, uninterrupted roadways due to to tolling, is the first measure in the 14-year history of tolling on Slovenian highways, which is directed towards freeways along motorways, which brings all the advantages you have and mentioned. First measure in fourteen years. All other attempts so far have been flawed and incomplete and incomplete in some quasi-technical, systemic and also in traffic and toll matters. Maybe the start was right, but then he got into a closed and open system, somewhere tolls are paid, somewhere no payments are paid. A single payment system is now being established for all passenger vehicles after a period of six months or a year. And in the middle of next year, toll stations and any roadblocks will be completely eliminated. At that time, there will also be a fairer and more balanced relationship between what passenger cars are paying and freight vehicles. However, this system of charging the use of infrastructure or damage to infrastructure and environmental damage must be regulated by European guidelines. And I agree with the need to enable domestic motorists to purchase more environmentally friendly vehicles and then gradually introduce higher tolls for freight transport, because we know that Slovenia is very burdened by international heavy freight transport. This will also focus heavy cargo on highways and railways. I support this law and I think it's really a commendable first step of this government in all fourteen years. [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u245	It is absurd that the introduction of vinjets is, in fact, what we expected. In fact, trucks causing the biggest congestion will pay tolls in a different way, but they remain in the toll collection system. In Germany they introduce trucks specifically, in Austria, introduce trucks separately, not on vignettes, but on the electronic collection system, etc. And we're the only ones keeping trucks on tolls the old way to say it. I can't take steps back during such rapid technological development, etc., stepping back to history. Noting Switzerland, which is not a member of the European Union with another system, is wrong and misleading. Instead of upgrading to develop knowledge, even in Slovenia there are systems that have already been designed for testing, but you did not allow them to start testing because you had different interests. This is a case that is an incredible experiment that has no clear calculations that has no consequences. It is true, it has already been said, we have removed the border on the Škofija, Fernetici and so on for those who go to the casino daily, to the inn, to lunch and so on. Now they're gonna have to stop and buy vineyards. For those 9 kilometers from Šentil to the Croatian border, they will also pay the vignettes, the six - year - olds, and once or twice. And last but not least, we started on the day that the European Commission warned Slovenia not to play with such experiments, debate in the National Assembly and take something out of date, step back in. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I'm opening up a loop to re-apply to explain my own voice. Member Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u247	Look, it's very nice to refer to expertise, but one particular example from last year. In hell's heat, I drove from Kranj to Ljubljana in the middle of the day along the old road in half an hour to work. I listened on the radio to see about 45 hours of waiting hours at a toll station in Voklam due to columns. And then where is that strong profession that found that the roadblocks were on all roads and that the tolling in the current form had nothing to do with it? I'd really like to know about this explanation. So it's obviously some quasi argument that's totally attracted to hair. Like when you're talking about this system, it's supposed to mean that the carists are now going to subsidize the trucks. It should be known that the price of transports or tolls for freight vehicles has already been legalised by the LDS and SD government's long-standing commitment. And if there is any subsidy at prices that are not changing now, then this was introduced long ago. These relationships have long been established. And the new law doesn't really change anything here. It opens up traffic and finally eliminates those unfortunate scenes where we were all known, unfortunately also in Europe, and we can watch them every day on TV as tourists move through Slovenia in endless columns in front of each toll station. We are solving this problem, opening roads and finally solving transport in a European comparable way. And we could be happy. And once again, gentlemen from transition might have stopped showing this pool about 40 transition foxes and sour grapes of vignettes, which you have never hoped to introduce yourself because you were under the pressure of the lobby. This government and this coalition have gathered civil courage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u249	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We have made quite a mess with this debate about vignettes and the old type of tolling. Let's be clear, one sucks, the other one's worse. That's how it is. If by yesterday those who are regular, day-to-day migrants, say from Primorska, are paying a certain price, or those who are from Styria, one another, and the intermediates had all this for free, if they lived in the right place, then it will now turn. But justice has not yet been achieved. Not this government, not this coalition is not the one who is committing cosmic injustices with cosmic rights. The only thing to solve this is to tolling after how many miles someone is transporting and how much to destroy the road. That would be fair. And that's where we're supposed to go. Whether or not the columns will shrink is a big question. Trucks are very large on our roads, especially tow trucks or tow trucks, and there will be more to stop at the front stations. And the question is, if that narrow throat in this pond can swallow all those who will come with vignettes. It's pointless to fantasize about it here. But unfortunately, on the other hand, we don't have expertise, we don't have simulations. None. But let's try this again. I know it's nice, like, for what places, for people who drive away every day. But there's no one else. For example, those who drive from Zasavje along the Susavska road have not paid anything so far, but now they will pay the full price for two kilometers. Just like everyone else. [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Mitja Slavinec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that. I've announced, just because it's one of the pre-election laws, I'm not going to look for arguments against vinjets. I'm also trying to find those positive things. The most important thing I see is that this is a law that certainly contributes to more coherent regional development. Those of you who said that the price of vignettes is also 2 kilometers or so. I'm saying the price of vignettes isn't high. And if someone doesn't believe me, let's say four times a month to Maribor or to Murska Sobota, now there is no difference, I hope it will be as soon as possible, and then he will see that the toll was high at this point. I am aware, however, that, like no law, this is not without such articles as could not yet be corrected, which could not yet be improved. We've heard a lot about this. And this certainly remains the task of the next government, as well as of the next government, of how to close this hole, this revenue gap that will definitely arise. That's clear. If we pay less, then we'll run out of money. There is, however, another matter that must be highlighted at this point, where the price is too high, as far as the price is concerned. It is largely too high in the field of punishment. The punishments are ten times too much. If we compare the ratio between the penalty and the value of the guilt in us and, say, in neighbouring countries where they have guilt, we see that this ratio is for factor 10. And why is that? Because there's a chance that they'll catch you without guilt, you're obviously ten times bigger. And here, in the preparation of the law itself, it is calculated that it is unlikely that anyone who drives without wine will be caught. But in the end, we see again that this is another proof that the government is continuing its policy of repression against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And I'm sorry that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Homan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u253	Thank you. I will be very happy to support the introduction of vinjets myself. I can't imagine another tourist season in the waiting lines. I come alone from Gorenjska. If we didn't do this, we would get another new toll station, completely unnecessary, so people would wait for Brezja, Voklem, Ljubljana, then go back to the sea and just pay, pay, pay. There was a colon to Voklo's gas station in the tourist peaks before Thorov. It's a four-mile column. It's completely unnecessary. And people say where they're going to buy - no columns will be on the border, no columns will be anywhere, because the vines will be able to be purchased from outside, on Adac or on adjacent petrol pumps, just like the Austrians can buy from us on our gas stations or Croatia on our gas stations is already an Austrian wine. I'd be happy to support that. But I cannot agree with the opposition's colleagues who are so vehemently saying how unnecessary this is. These vines or stickers are a very important and damn good thing. But they didn't need the stickers we had to pay for, which was expensive, for registration, and then you had to pay someone else to stick it to you, and someone else to unstick it to you, and you didn't know why. And here you're gonna pay to drive cheaper on the highway, and you're not gonna wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I have no great joy, even though I will support the marriage for the reasons I have already stated. The law is pre-arranged and has some mistakes. And the opposition's proposals, which were on the wallpaper, even admitted last night that the minister would show that some of the proposals could be supported and the law could be even better. But for support it is very simple, it can also be egotistical. If some are to pay a toll of €35 or €55 for the 600 metres transported through a road system that is tolled, then we, who will be transporting 200 kilometres, must support the tolling system. For us from Pomurje, this is the situation. Or if I take it completely selfishly, if whoever comes to Ljubljana once will pay 35 euros, I, who will drive 50 times to Ljubljana, will also have to pay 35 euros. But it's a question of honesty. And of course this matter will remain open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Member Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support the new toll collection model myself. I must say, I find it quite difficult, and how painful, to say the goodbye of one unjust system that has been in force so far. The fact is that this existing system is very unfair mainly because we have different motorway sections where some pay, others pay if they happen to be caught and others are systematically exempt. And this system is, I must say, very unfair. Another reason why I will support this is that parallel roads will be extremely burdened by this way of collecting the toll. And this will be an important contribution to security, to improving traffic safety in these environments, because usually these roads go all the way through populated areas. And the third reason I'm going to support this system is because I'm against systematically implanting bottlenecks on highways. I think that the system or approach to building highways, the concept of building highways, was flawed and we systematically built on a few miles every few miles. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's a narrow throat. [[...]] And in doing so, we have practically destroyed the entire impact, the envisaged effect, which is to be achieved by building this network. This model, which is now being introduced, means precisely this: the removal of systematically built bottlenecks on motorways and thus the significantly increased flow of the motorway system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u258	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u259	Thank you for your word. If I looked from my point of view at what this meant to me - a new system means a reduction in payment, I should support the law. If I look from the perspective that the current tolling system is inadequate, I should support the law. But I won't, because I don't see history in it, like some coalition MPs, because we're replacing one bad system with a hybrid system that's not fair. It is free to say that we will remove the bottlenecks, that the current traffic, when it is perfectly clear that the speed will be reduced in many places, but it is perfectly clear that with the side belt that is driving with ABC, it knows how many times it has to wait and stop despite ABC. Now the trucks will be driving after that. How long the columns will be because of this, nothing is known, and how this will affect road safety, nor will it. It is also not known how many times they will exercise control to verify whether or not the vehicles have paid for their vignette. This will also mean a departure from current traffic. Not to mention all those, for example, the Mariborians, who so far did not need such routes for which we should pay the toll. They will now have to pay for the introduction of the payment on the bonds as well. And not a few of them had concerns about this way of paying the toll. And because of all these concerns, because I'm sure the new way doesn't mean improvement, I'm not going to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u260	Thank you very much. We'll go to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members, 49 to 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - dealing with or issues of Members and Members. I ask Members who intend to leave the meeting to do so and to allow others to participate. Comrade Bajc, colleague of Janc, please. Thank you very much. First time. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mrs Marjeta Cotman's reply to Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš's question on the payment of transfers to individuals and households. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 20, for 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Secondly, in line with Mr Bojan Kontić's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to Mr Bojan Kontić's question on public sector salaries. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 19 to 37. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Thirdly, in accordance with Mr Anton Kokal's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Janez Podobnik to Mr Anton Kokal's question on procedures for the adoption of spatial plans. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 31. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In line with Mr Sreč Krijat's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Zofija Minister of Health Mazej Kuković to Mr Sreč Friend's question on ensuring equal opportunities for all patients. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 39. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifthly, in accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador of Mag. Franca Žnidaršič will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Zofija Mazej Kukovic to the question of mag. Franca Žnidaršič in relation to supplementary health insurance. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixthly, according to the proposal of Mr Jožef Školč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jožef Školč's question on measures to violate the laws. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Seventh, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Janko Weber, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Janko Weber's question on taxes. Explanation from colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to point out how inappropriate the President of the Government has answered my question. If any legislation has to be extremely clear, it is precisely the law that imposes the payment of taxes. The President took the view that he could, in fact, either personally or the government or the Minister of Finance, determine for himself who would pay taxes in Slovenia, who would not pay them. This is a truly unsustainable situation. It is a display of an illegal country, which in fact we cannot afford in Slovenia. The fact is that Article 154 of the Income Act makes it very clear that the flat-rate amount of subsidies must be attributed to the cadastral income of each owner of agricultural or forestry land and to any beekeeper holding bee. It is a very clear undertaking that these flat-rate subsidies must be charged or should be charged. However, the fact is that 100,000 landowners have neither received subsidies nor applied for these subsidies. I would like to draw your attention to another fact. Even those farmers who applied for subsidies in 2007 did not receive them because the Government was late in paying subsidies. The Income Act makes it very clear that it is not possible to tax the income you did not receive and the basis for the cadastral income is income in 2007. This is a very serious issue that we must certainly address in the National Assembly and people clearly whether they are liable to land tax or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Comrade Sushinik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u263	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to say that there is absolutely no reason for us to consider this topic because we have considered this topic 10. 4. at the 30th regular meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We have unanimously adopted three conclusions on the basis of which the response of the Prime Minister of the Government is also understood today to the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Webr, by which we have announced solutions to this problem. However, that the problem of taxation exists, it is undeniably true. In 2004, you adopted legislation with which you taxed all subsidies 100% without exception. In 2006, we announced the first tax reform solutions and passed such an income law, which taxes only 55% of the subsidies at a given time. The implementation tax exempts all payments relating to the implementation of agri-environmental farming programmes in restricted areas, the implementation of European standards, investment support, support to young acquirers. In these decisions, which I have already mentioned, the Committee has specifically highlighted and requested the Ministry of Finance and the Government to direct all rescue efforts towards preventing unpaid subsidies from being taxed. The President of the Government made it clear today that this solution is being examined, possible and will be implemented. I would certainly like to point out once again that there is no reason, we have discussed this subject several hours ago, Mr Weber has not opposed the adoption of the final conclusions and therefore there is no reason to support this proposal for a decision and to support the debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I'm also opening an application procedure on my own behalf. Who wants it? Comrade Webber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u265	Thank you. Already what Mr Sušnik has somehow tried to explain as a reason that there is no need to amend the legislation, I would like to further clarify that there is a need for a debate in the National Assembly on this issue. Of course, I supported the Committee on Agriculture's decision not to tax those who did not receive the subsidy, but I also made it very clear that it is necessary to amend the law. And the Social Democrats have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which amends Article 154 in a way that really those who have not received subsidies will not be taxed. And once again, the President of the Government cannot decide for himself whether someone will be taxed or not. It's time to change the law. The law is introduced and must also be dealt with at a time until the decisions taken by the debtors become legally binding. When they become legalized, we missed everything. Anyone who complains will be able to receive an answer from the Minister of Finance: "Sorry, you are wrong; the decision is legally binding; Article 154 requires us to tax you." These are the facts. It is therefore imperative to amend the law. And once again, I have made this clear on the committee, we have tabled the Social Democrats in law, and let us ask these questions, if there is any further confusion to be resolved, at the meeting of the National Assembly, when we have discussed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Comrade Sušnik in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u267	In any event, it is necessary to resolve the unfair and non-consistent taxation of subsidies introduced and enacted by the government coalition in 2004. The first step in this direction was already taken by fiscal reform in 2006, the second step was announced by amending the Cadastrian Income Act, which is the only necessary and only real solution that can provide taxation after the actual financial flow. I now have to say this personal opinion, I do not honestly believe in Mr Veber's well-intentioned initiatives. Mr Weber, who is so committed to agricultural policy, comes from a political party that has always cultivated a noble attitude towards agriculture. And this pathetic attitude towards agriculture was most demonstrated in the case of Kočevski. The relation to agriculture and rural areas is reflected in the fact that whole areas are abandoned and even Kočevsko is infested. In dozens of villages it disappeared during the period of concern of its predecessors for the development of agriculture and rural areas. From this point of view, it is virtually impossible to take this proposal into account in good faith and this initiative for the debate we have received today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u269	I propose, on a procedural basis, that this coalition amends the system of charging compensation from State forest concessions in such a way that municipalities where state timber is cut will also receive the payments of these subsidies. If anyone steals Kočevsko, it's stolen by the right coalition. This has been the case all the time since the independence itself, or since 1993, when the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was established. Outstandingly high amounts [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u270	Thank you very much, colleague Weber. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u271	They are entangled from Kočevska precisely because of the interest of the right. [[...]] Return this to Kočevski and the villages will live on.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u272	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the procedure. Here you go. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support the proposal of colleague Weber for simple reasons. The Agriculture Committee has proposed to the Government three conclusions, two of which are currently in place. The first conclusion is that the Government will examine the possibility of exemption for those who have not received subsidies, etc. However, the Government does not even understand or know what we have heard from the President of the Government when he claims that the debtors have not received any decisions, even though we have decisions here before us. Secondly, what's the worst for me is when the President of the Government says that there is no law at all to be able to do this in this country just so that the law is only necessary for taxation. Something incomprehensible and something unacceptable. As a result, it is necessary to discuss, for the first time, whether the decisions and the positions were at stake or are burdensome and burdensome for citizens by law. And the second decision of the Committee, which is also important: whether in the coming year there will be a way of taxing through cadastral income, whether subsidies will be included, or whether those who do not receive subsidies will be included, etc.? The theme is so extensive that it might also indicate before the citizens' elections to pour pure wine, that they will know how now and how to go forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u274	Procedurally. Messenger Uhan? Yeah. Of course we'll record it. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. I also support this proposal for at least two reasons. The first is the one we have heard many times before that it certainly makes sense to clarify why income should be paid for something you did not receive. To pay income also to those who have not received subsidies. The problem is even broader, with at least one problem in another area. And that is that even those who want to apply for income due to the non-functioning of an online application cannot do so. Even when they invest, they receive these subsidies at least six months later than in neighbouring countries. In particular, I know about Austria and Hungary. And this shows that Slovenia is losing opportunities to be a net recipient of European funds, but we will probably be net contributors again. Agricultural subsidies are the share that we can draw most from Europe. All this share of the subsidies paid to our farmers is only 20% of the Slovenian budget, the remaining large majority are the resources that need to be known and are, of course, worth taking advantage of from the European budget. And we can see that we're very inefficient about this. And not only are we ineffective, at the expense of our subsidies, nor can we invest them, or farmers who are entitled to it cannot do so in a timely manner, the tenders are too slow, on the other hand, the realizations are so slow that neighbors come to us, pick up fertilizers and other seeding things, raise prices and our prices, when half a year later than neighbors get money, they have to pay more for these things than they would otherwise, but then end up paying income for those who have not received it. The debate is certainly meaningful and I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u277	I will support the proposal because it is necessary to discuss what Mr Sušnik said. In 2006, we adopted income legislation. As a result of this income legislation, those who have not received a subsidy are paid and those who receive a high subsidy are paid less due to the introduction of an average system. And not only that, in 2008 the rates for this reform are coming. I advise all beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies to complain about decisions, because this is the only way that we will not pay this until we resolve this problem in the National Assembly. However, when the complaint is rejected, they should complain about the postponement of the payment. We in the National Assembly need to discuss such a response from the President of the Government, who says that taxes are or are not, depending on how I interpret them. It's an unacceptable condition. The fact is, gentlemen, in 2006, with effect from 1 January 2007, reform has been introduced, this reform is now coming in the form of hundreds of thousands of titles of Slovenian citizens and citizens and on average each pays 100 to 150 euros more in 2008 for errors made in 2006. This is an account for Janševa, Bajukova, Shirceva, and I do not know which tax reform. This is something that needs to be discussed. And inside of it to talk about the fact that it is right to pay subsidies even to those who have not received them at all and not to solve it by changing the law, of course it is not possible. What the President of the Government did not understand is that this law can also apply back because retroactivity, when good for taxpayers, is not contrary to legislation. But they'll explain that to him. But if you don't like us proposing this marriage, take it! You present it, you reject ours, and we will gladly accept yours. Just let the problem solve! I'll back you up. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. The SD argues that it is necessary to amend the law so that those who have not received the subsidy will not be taxed. Therefore, it is not necessary to adopt a new law, which states in section 15 of the Act that only those benefits you actually received are taxable. And there is no basis for us to change the law again in this sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Member Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u281	Thank you very much. First, about the problem of Kočevska, which had a special status since 1945, and I would expect that the province would also be extremely developed on the basis of this special status. After 1992, the LDS coalition, the SD, was a very long time, and if it failed after 1945 to 1992 to train Kočevske for a good life, it could have been at least then. The concessional part could be repaired several times in terms of terms of office when you were in the coalition. With regard to the initiative, I must say that under the 2004 Rope Government Act, which is now your member and you have supported the law yourself, some 240 million subsidies would be taxed. This tax reform that this government has adopted is only €73 million. More than €100 million was taxed on agricultural subsidies by this tax reform. And now those who passed the law in the previous term are talking about dishonesty and talking about unfair burdens. They are three times smaller than they would have been if they had been enforced and if they had not rectified the tax reform. And from this hypocrisy that is here, I simply cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u282	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It is only now that I have seen how this debate is needed because it has already begun. That is why I believe that all the colleagues of the government coalition will follow your colleagues, the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Tanko, the representative of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Sušnik, the president of the Committee on Agriculture, Mrs Uhanov, and you will see because we are already discussing. So the debate is necessary and let us make it possible. You tell us what's wrong in Kočevsko, Mr Weber will tell us what's wrong, what the previous government has done, what this government has done. Let's make this possible. You have yourself started to debate in terms of explanations of vote and let us make this debate possible. Now you see how it's supposed to be. But if you don't do it, then I don't know why you're applying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u284	Thank you very much. The word has a Member of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u285	Of course, I will also support the proposal to hold a debate because there was a talk at this session on friendly public administration in the National Assembly. But this friendly public administration, on its behalf, the Tax Administration, has issued decisions to individuals, with filled-in posts to pay, and where the information we are talking about is also taken into account. And what is the procedure now? Now the one who is dissatisfied with the fact that he did not receive the grant will have to complain. On what basis will the Tax Administration answer that it does not need to, since it will have no legal basis on which to say that it does not have to pay? So much for these great achievements of the public administration that we do not say that I had to, because I own a small forest, get such a big poster that he told me to pay 1.47 euros. And we could talk about the great achievements of kindness. I applied for explanations of vote only to draw attention to this aspect. However you minimize the document that was sent, it bears the expression of the decision. And you have to complain about the decision if you don't want to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u286	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Comrade Znidaršič, I apologize. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal for a debate because, in principle, I agree with all those who said that only those benefits received are taxable. This is certainly the case, and this should not be discussed if this is the case. But it's not. I have in my office a letter from a lady who says, do something so I don't pay the subsidy tax that I didn't get. That's the problem now. And since this has happened, it must be discussed. I don't see any reason why not. And there is nothing unusual about this proposal to discuss this matter. And it's not true that now the law that says that only the incomes we get are taxed, but if the bills come for what someone didn't get. And that's the problem. It cannot be avoided, this ghastly fact, which is otherwise unpleasant, but obviously we have cooked it in this power. I don't know why we shouldn't say, "We'll fix this with a law or something." Or I don't know whose it is or if we're gonna be alone with it. We need to solve this once and for all. I also got a receipt for 1.45 euros. The poster and time it took to write it was probably worth more. But it's okay. I paid for it without making my hair gray. This is a problem and I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members of Parliament present, which means we are not concluding. We will decide again on the proposal for a decision. So this is the second time we've voted. 42 Members and Members are present. Since we're inconclusive right now, I'm giving you 10 minutes' rest. We are adjourning the meeting and will resume at 17 and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u289	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We continue with the previously interrupted point due to the twofold incoherence of Members and Members. Procedural proposal. Comrade Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u290	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club for this point and for this vote, we are forecasting obstruction because it is obviously never possible to discuss important issues in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Copy that. Comrade Bostian Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u292	Thank you for your word. Also by the Lip Group of Ambassadors, procedurally. In view of the fact that we have seen that there is still a need for debate on such an important matter raised by our colleague Weber, there has been no serious hearing, even political accounting on such a substantive subject as, say, farmers in our country, has even come forward by the chairman of the committee himself, so we see that the debate would be necessary. Given that Friday afternoon, and I see that half of Parliament is missing, which is unacceptable for such a assembly as the National Assembly, I am particularly looking at colleagues who are supposed to be in opposition, but they are not, even on our side for this point, and I am predicting obstruction of this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u293	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Jank Weber's question on taxation. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. This means that there was no conclusion in the third attempt, which by our rules means that I am terminating the meeting. We'll keep you posted. To conclude, allow me to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Policy is calling for its 87th urgent meeting, which will begin immediately after the conclusion of the meeting of the State Assembly in room 212. And the Committee of the National Assembly for European Affairs will begin 10 minutes after the end of the session, 10 minutes later in a large lounge on the first floor. Thank you.
