ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and take your seats. Thank you and welcome! I am opening the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič from 3.30 p.m. on, Miran Jerič, mag. Vasja Klavora from 16:00 on, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Dr. Mitja Slavinec until 16:00 and Mr. Aloise Sok. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! Once again, I ask Members and Members to calm down so that we can start a meeting of the National Assembly in peace. Would you like to take a break to talk? I'm asking you one more time, will you calm down? Thank you. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 14 January 2008. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or for the extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. In doing so, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, today we will have only the 1st item of the agenda, the remaining items, and at the next extraordinary meeting on Tuesday 22 January 2008 beginning at 12 noon. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION OF IMPOSED INVESTIGATION SOCIETIES. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Shircelj, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! On 31 July 2007, the Law on the Legal Successions of Authorised Investment Companies, which establishes companies which are legally considered to be legal successors of authorised investment companies, entered into force. The law covers all companies established under the Company Act, which are the legal successors of authorised investment firms, resulting in the fact that the legal successors of authorised investment companies may also be banks and insurance undertakings subject to specific rules and are governed by specific rules. Comparing the provisions of this Act with the provisions of the Banking Act and the Insurance Act, and on the basis of the sub-legislative rules on the basis of these laws, it has been shown that there is a conflict between the legal arrangements of the legal successors of the authorised investment companies and banks and insurance undertakings. By implementing the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the legal successors of authorised investment firms, they will determine from application a conflict between the legal arrangements of the legal successors of the authorised investment companies and the legal arrangements of the banks and the legal arrangements of the exempt insurance undertakings of the bank and the insurance undertaking. The proposed amendments are intended to eliminate the unequal situation of banks and insurance undertakings compared to other legal successors, which shows that the law does not take account of the specific sectoral arrangements of banks and insurance undertakings vis-à-vis other shareholders. The Insurance Act governs the insurance company in its entirety and otherwise, as regulated by the Company Act. The Company Act also explicitly separates insurance companies and banks from other shareholders and, of course, also specifically lays down the application of international accounting standards for banks and insurance undertakings. At the same time, they are classified as large companies and, irrespective of the fulfilment of the criteria, they provide for specificities regarding the breakdown of business statements. In view of the above, in the case of banks and insurance undertakings, it has established in compliance with the sectoral laws the purpose of this Act has been exceeded, since small shareholders are fully protected because they are regulated and transparent companies under the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and for the supervision of banks operated by the Bank of Slovenia. However, the amendment of this law will allow banks and insurance companies to be listed on the stock exchange, in accordance with the legislation, in accordance with the decisions of the management authorities and in accordance with the rules of the stock exchange. This applies, including to the Triglav Insurance Company. Dear Members and honourable Members! The government proposes that the National Assembly support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome it all very well. In the context of the extension of the 35th meeting of the Committee yesterday, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered amendments and supplemented the Law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 120th regular meeting, the Committee decided that the draft law in question should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Government, in particular the Ministry of Finance, and the Legal and Legislative Services, participated in the work of the Committee, and two amendments of the Social Democrats Group were also submitted, the first to propose deleting Article 1 and the amendment to Article 3. Both the explanation and the debate itself were about one issue - the law being tabled has only four articles - or should Insurance Triglav be listed on the stock exchange immediately, or this can be done later on in view of its opinion. The Committee did not adopt a proposal to delete Article 1 and to amend Article 3. He voted on all the articles together. And since the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has not adopted any amendments to the draft law as its parent labour force, the Committee notes that the National Assembly will consider the proposal for a law in the proposed text, as published in Rapporteur No 7 of 14.1.2008. Such a proposal is proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u6	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague, all together one nice greeting and also a successful work in the year of our term of office. At the outset, I should like to point out that Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law, because in our opinion, even a number of unanswered questions, which are also related to the referendum, and not least to the Constitutional Court's decision, must be answered before the inclusion of the Insurance Office. The proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Successions of Authorised Investment Companies has one article, but it still constitutes an important amendment to the applicable law. The proposed addition to Article 2 of the Act provides that the provisions of the law do not apply to banks and insurance undertakings. At the moment, the law is primarily linked to the classification of the Insurance Company Triglav on the stock exchange, which would have happened if we had not adopted the law. Under the current provision, on 28 January, i.e. in 12 days, the deadline for the company to be listed under the pid law shall expire. With the inclusion of the Triglav Insurance Company on the stock exchange, there would certainly be a number of problems which relate mainly to the provisions of the applicable Law on the Succession of pids, which provides for the full portability of shares, and which is limited by other legislation to the availability of shares held in the Triglav Insurance Company. There would have been some other collisions. In particular, I must point out that we have supported the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party from the very beginning. It is true, however, that the law both in time and in substance coincides with the question owned by the Insurance Office Triglav in the work relating to the rights of former insurers. We all know that we have a referendum on this decision of the Constitutional Court and also last year, which rejected the amendment of the Property Change Act. The adoption of this law and Triglav's failure to market are therefore closely linked to the privatisation of almost 35% of the value of the Triglav Insurance Company, which is currently managed by the Capital Society. The Slovenian People's Party is made clear that it has prevented or stopped the adoption of a law that would allow the privatisation of that work by natural persons. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always insisted that the way of selling this share should be carefully reconsidered and that any speculative consequences that might result from the sale of this share should be avoided. There is no doubt that the sale of 35% of the share of the insurance company Triglav to individuals would certainly allow for a good investment and would be satisfied with it as in the case of the New Credit Bank Maribor. However, the question is: How many people who were insured by Triglav in 1992 and 1991 could actually afford to buy shares in case of sale to natural persons? And would such a sale really be fair to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? The key objective that we are pursuing in this law is the careful treatment of state property and the preservation of strategically most important companies in Slovenian ownership. Insurance is undoubtedly one of these strategic industries in our country. By rejecting this law, our largest insurance company would be listed on the stock exchange, while at the same time it should be available to those in the management of KAD under the applicable law on the conversion of pids with its shares on the stock exchange. We will therefore support the proposed law. In further steps related to the privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company, we will insist on reasonable decisions, both in the interests of the insurance company and of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of Members, we firmly believe that, at this time, the sale of state shares in Triglav is not necessary, let alone necessary, and that there are solutions that can without sale mean stable and sustainable financing of the pension fund, thereby ensuring the benefit of all our citizens and citizens - both those who could afford the purchase of Triglav shares and those who do not think about the shares, but are thinking about whether they will still be able to provide a decent life in a material sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u7	Thank you. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We will not support this proposed law in the Group of Members, especially because the Government has not yet proposed a law recently, which was also supported by the coalition in the National Assembly, whereby all the successors of authorised investment companies, including banks and insurance companies, must be marketed, if, of course, any of these successors of authorised investment companies, and the Government has rightly and correctly justified this in order to achieve greater transparency of trade in those shares. Now that we have come to terms with the fact that insurance company Triglav has joined one of the successors of the authorised investment companies and has become committed itself to putting its shares on the stock exchange on 27 January this year, the problem has arisen; the problem caused again by the Government because it has not proposed an appropriate privatisation system for Insurance Company Triglav. The proposal she proposed was rejected at the referendum as well or mainly because they did not take into account the constructive comments we made in Zares when we proposed that certain security guards be installed when transferring to the Capital Society. In such a case, they could then support the law and, in such a case, of course, even today, they would not have a new law, a law that is only proposed for the sake of the Triglav Insurance Company. Due to the situation created by the failure of the Government, it did not want or could not prepare an appropriate model of ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company. What we have before us is the fact that if we adopt this law today, then the question is when will Insurance Triglav go on the market at all. Indeed, the ownership proposals prepared by the Ministry of Finance are not supported by everyone in the government or within the coalition. The proposal that we made in Zares, which takes into account the good qualities of the proposal made by the State Council and those good qualities of the Government, you obviously do not want to accept. We have proposed that 34% of the share of the Triglav Insurance Company should be transferred to the PPIZ or to the CAD with the appropriate fuses, in order not to result in an imprudent sale, and that these funds would be useful for the stability of the pension system while, at the same time, in the next phase, with the Triglav Insurance Company, conducting a recapitalisation of EUR 200 million through which it would invite all citizens and citizens, within the framework of the open public offering of shares, to participate in this privatisation. And in this way we would achieve, for the first time, the stability of the pension system, because 34% of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav would be transferred to the PPIZ or to the CAD with the appropriate fuses. Another time. We would achieve that all citizens of interest are involved in the privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company as part of the public offering. And thirdly, most importantly, we would have achieved that the insurance company Triglav would have reached new fresh capital and would have become a key, important regional player in the field of insurance marketing in south-eastern Europe. It is not necessary that Slovenian companies are only targets of takeover, that they wait like clay pigeons, who will shoot them down, but that they also have the opportunity to take over. But, honourable Members, all these proposals that we are really making run into deaf ears, you do not want to discuss them, and then we face the situation that we have today, that the Government is trying to eliminate some of the dangerous consequences of the law it passed a year ago. The final result will be that Insurance Triglav will not be on the stock exchange and that the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company will continue to be traded on the grey market, as is being traded now, in an untransparent way, and we know that there is no secret that the prices of these shares are moving from 100 to 500 euros and ownership is unbiasedly consolidated. Because of all this, and especially because of some poorly prepared proposals, unfortunately, we cannot really support this law in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The Government has proposed amendments and additions to the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies on the basis of the findings on the weaknesses of this law. The legislative and legal service in relation to this law or proposal has had no significant systemic and legal concerns, and the content seems to be large today, as the debate is projected to be for a single sentence of five hours, which is also the only essential part of this amendment. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government proposal. We ourselves estimate that the last two decades of our country have been marked by important both legal and substantive attempts to restructure our property with the aim of finding owners, which we call "right owners", so that the property is properly, effectively managed to be protected by small owners and to prevent irregularities and abuses. These were some of the objectives that the amendment is also trying to follow, which is now ahead of us. It is true that this law, which we are now changing, has not endured a good half year, but it cannot be a reason not to try to correct it in the sense that it is necessary to correct it. The government, we understand, had at least three, not just one, three reasons for change. The first is perhaps the only one who could be called systemic. In fact, it speaks of insurance companies and banks being in an unequal position compared to other successors of authorised investment companies, because they are also different institutions after their activities because they are otherwise organised, otherwise controlled, because they are also of a different nature. We believe that this reason is also worthy of support. The second reason given is the reason which will be mentioned several times and more today, namely, the property transformation of the Triglav Insurance Company, which is actually carried out or a collateral part of the amendment of this basic law. We note that if it were not for the power of the referendum's will to stop that bill that has already been passed, perhaps we would not have any such embarrassment today. However, the third reason cited by the Government, which is also valid, is of course the reason that if the Law on legal successors of authorised investment companies is consistently implemented, it will not be possible to implement a government programme that speaks of ownership in some of the most important institutions in a 25 % structural share plus one. We also support this, the only thing we do not know is what to do with the syntagma that is written in the introduction and which says that this 25 plus 1% or one share is something special, I quote, "the Slovenian character of our banks and insurance companies". Otherwise, the Government offers a solution that allows the exemption of insurance and successor banks from certain obligations laid down in the law, and this solution, which is proposed, we support in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is a matter of extinguishing a fire, not a fire. Such a proposal, as you put it before us after the urgent procedure, cannot be supported, because we have also heard a conflicting opinion from known facts that companies must remain in Slovenian ownership. However, you are trying to ensure that no successful company will remain in Slovenian ownership! The last successful case, of course made by the Government, is the sale of the General Navigation, which is so supposedly placed in the hands of a foreigner. And don't say that it protects small shareholders, but if you gave small shareholders as legal advisor to a German who later bought the company. We believe in the Slovenian National Party in relation to constitutional complaints and the result of the referendum, and if the Slovenian Government cared little about respecting it, we would not accept it today. My personal conviction is that the government is allowed to steal in a simple manner and that the citizens are persecuted for it. One more stupid thing, if that's accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! Good day and a nice greeting on behalf of Lipe, a group of unrelated Members. I would like to point out that the matter of today's treatment, that is, the content, is extremely professional. I therefore ask you also, on behalf of Lipe, to reflect on the vote. I would like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to finally answer us why, if, according to the President of the Government, we have a budgetary surplus, we should even approach the sale of state property. Why, in our country, if we have more income than we can sell - and this is said by Prime Minister Janez Janša - to touch on the issue of privatisation, the sale of state wealth. The insurance company is the wealth of all of us, but specifically in connection with the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims under its second Article - a transfer owned by KAD to a stock exchange. If they come from a hypothesis or the difficulty of this happening, it means that in the framework of the stock exchange, the Ljubljana Stock Exchange will develop a market price. We still do not know what will happen to the remainder and what will happen to the forecasting IPO, but it should be done through the help of recapitalisation or through the share of the SOD. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the institution is included in the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, there will be no market price formation, so the deviation of the IPO from this price will not be possible. And if we have enabled citizens and citizens to play an active role in privatisation in the context of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, this will not be possible in the case of an insurance undertaking, as the previous price in the securities market will already be created. From this address, I must say that in the context of Lipa, the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we can say with certainty and believe that each one of you who is familiar with matter knows that they do not keep the word of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks or represents the law, packed in the national interest. That is not true, the law before us today does not reflect the national interest! Allow me to introduce you from this town and I think that there was an unintentional mistake in one of the speakers in front of me. Three months ago, trades for those true speculators took place at a rate of €520, not €150, as was the case, for larger packages. Today there are 450 euro deals and financial institutions, so they are buying out stock exchange services, and of course we also have to count their profits, at 350 euros. The National Assembly, in our firm conviction, must not be so naive and, in this case, follow the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following the formation of a market price based on KAD's share, as this will actually put them in a worse position in the coming IPO, that is, public offerings, citizens and citizens. Take all together, for example, only the past privatisation under the name of New Credit Bank Maribor, where the price was determined within the framework of the IPO or better said public offering. This time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is pursuing the goal of price formation on the stock exchange based on the percentages currently owned by KAD, so this is very bad and no citizen from this title will repeat the story from the New Credit Bank Maribor. According to our assessment, the strong belief in Lipa should, in so far as the Government has not done so - and from this place all the criticism of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - at all, present the vision of the integral image of that insurance company then "per partes" jump from step to step, not by being deceived today. The move that is before us today, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is weak and we will not support this act in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members with the name Lip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! The proposed amendments to the proposal for a law supplementing the law on legal successors of authorised investment firms are intended to eliminate the unequal situation of insurance undertakings and banks compared to other legal successors, since the law does not take into account the specificity of the sector-specific arrangements of insurance undertakings and banks in relation to other shareholders. Shareholders of legal successors of authorised investment companies who have become a shareholder and have more than 15% of the shares or capital must, under the provisions of the recently adopted law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies, publish a takeover offer or reduce the share of the capital below 15% in order to ensure that small shareholders are adequately protected. This provision applies to both companies and insurance undertakings which are recast in accordance with the Law on Property Transformation of Insurance and Banks. Companies operate in accordance with the Company Act and the operation of insurance companies and banks is governed by insurance and banking legislation. The Bank of Slovenia supervises the operations of banks and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Such regulation and supervision exercised by the institutions referred to above constitute an appropriate protection of small shareholders. In the light of these facts, the Slovenian Democratic Party considers that the Government's proposal that the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies should not apply to shareholders authorised to provide banking services and not to those authorised to carry out insurance business. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u17	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Good afternoon! The Group of Social Democrats will not support the proposed law. There is no conflict between the law on pids, the legal successors of pids, and the law on insurance or the law on banking, but there is a conflict between the interests of coalition parties. That's why we have this law by emergency today. There is also a conflict between the interests of small shareholders, knowing what the real stock price is, and the government's political desire to share capital gains. And above all, there is a conflict between the will of three quarters of the participants in the referendum and the will of the coalition, which now seeks to circumvent the referendum will in an unknown way. It is impossible for the market economy to prevent the legislator from being listed on the stock exchange so that shareholders have the right information on the value of the stock exchanges. Of course, it will be necessary to find an appropriate way to properly allocate the rights of the beneficiaries of the property transformation of the Triglav Insurance Company. However, to say that there is no need to put Insurance Triglav on the stock market is a great nonsense, which, of course, is why we are opposed to this law. However, it is not just stupidity, especially how the government will allocate capital gains to some with political discretion. We've already seen this at the New Maribor Credit Bank. So the dilemma is something, but if the Government wants to maintain political discretion with arrogance, we must oppose it. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that amendments were not adopted on the working body yesterday, allowing in particular the right solution for the implementation of the referendum will. That wasn't voted out yesterday. Of course, we have said that the exclusion of insurance companies and banks from the law, which was adopted by a majority in this National Assembly, is unfounded. Even simpler: in fact, you say that Nova Credit Bank Maribor should withdraw from the stock exchange, because of course you demand and justify that there are no legal grounds for its quotation. We have proposed, as a constructive opposition, that the 180-day deadline, which expires on 25 January, be extended by 60 days. You're opposed to that, too. For all these reasons, we believe that the coalition does not have the political will to enforce the referendum will, but will try in a non-transparent way to perform the so-called either privatisation or recapitalisation of the new Triglav Insurance Company in a similar way as was done at the New Maribor Credit Bank. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Successions of Authorised Investment Companies, which we accept today, runs counter to everything we have done in Slovenia at the time of the development of the market economy, and means a greater involvement of the country in an economy that is not marketed. I propose, especially to the coalition parties, the SLS and DeSUS, that you reject the bill and thus enforce what your ministers say at the government's meeting. That didn't work out at your mother's working body meeting yesterday - I hope you can do it today. In this way, they would reject the law and thus ensure at least that there will be no political discretion in the cabinet of the President of the Government or the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. We will oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. According to the LDS, the Government’s incomprehensible and non-consistency policy is in the decisions it takes with regard to the Triglav Insurance Company. In today's case, the National Assembly requests that, following an urgent procedure, the amendment of the Law on Legal Successors of Authorised Investment Companies be considered, since it is assumed that, if the law is not amended, there will be irreparable consequences for the functioning of the State. What dramatic words that can actually become tragic in this story! This same government did not say it at the time, that is, more than half a year ago when the National Assembly considered the basic law, and the government then gave the coalition a green light for the adoption of the law. Therefore, the Government has not identified these irreparable consequences either at the time or within five months of the entry into force of the law. This was mentioned 14 days before the date on which the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav were to be listed on the stock exchange. Funny if it wasn't true! So, one of the reasons we don't support the marriage. The other one. In our opinion, the proposed exceptions to the law on legal succession violate the basic purpose of the law, which is to ensure the protection of minority shareholders of companies created by the transformation of authorised investment companies, because they have a specific position in relation to shareholders of public companies due to the special procedure for the creation of such companies in relation to other companies, public companies and their shareholders and also have control by the competent authorities. The amendments to the law that we are considering today will also prevent the obligation to make a takeover offer to companies with more than 15% stake in society and thus be played by Triglav shareholders, a financial company that has been attached to the Triglav Insurance Company. These shareholders will also be prevented from selling shares on the stock exchange as this law blocks the obligation to issue a quotation from the Insurance Company Triglav. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the Government has overlooked the obligation already imposed by the Law on the Legal Successions of the pids that companies with more than 15% stake in the Triglav Insurance Company must make a takeover offer. As a result, KAD and the SOD should make a takeover bid for the Triglav Insurance Company, which is contrary to the principle of this Government’s withdrawal from the economy. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, therefore, we do not object to making an exception for the takeover offer of the Insurance Office Triglav. However, we are opposed to preventing a quotation from the Triglav Insurance Company, which would allow the sale of shares of the Triglav Insurance Company to small shareholders who have lodged certificates in Triglav, a financial company with the ownership of state property. In the original, i.e. the original law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies, a special control regime is laid down with regard to the implementation of the legitimate business, which is clearly not to apply to the Triglav Insurance Company if this law is adopted. On the basis of the proposed amendments to this and also the law on the transformation of the insurance company prepared by the Ministry of Finance and withdrawn from the government procedure, it can be seen that the Government does not have any smart strategy on the development of the Triglav Insurance and Banking System as a whole. The ways of privatisation are changing from day to day, instead of the country acting as a good owner who cares about increasing the profitability of state property, we are here witnessing only the personal interests of some government and coalition representatives. And the government forgets about the protection of small shareholders. Obviously, we see two faces of these same people, talking about how we should work and how they make really different. In view of the opposition to the further sale of property under the table and the adverse consequences of the proposed law for small shareholders of the Insurance Company Triglav, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will object to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Successions of Authorised Investment Companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u22	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies. The main reason for our support is that the current pid law in Article 3 provides that shares of legal successors of authorised investment companies must be listed on the stock exchange by 27.1.2008. This applies also to banks and insurance companies, as well as to the Insurance Company Triglav, which, with the addition of Triglav, a financial company, d.d., is obliged to operate under the applicable pid law. The amendment of this law should also be adopted because it is in such a form inapplicable and is in direct contradiction with Article 21 of the Property Change Act. This provision, in the sixth paragraph of this Article, provides for the adoption of a specific law setting out the way in which natural persons will be entitled to the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav. In the New Slovenia Group, it seems reasonable and necessary for banks and insurance companies to be exempt from the provisions of the Law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies because they also have their own sectoral legislation. This will also enable them to operate more efficiently and more cost-effectively. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we also opposed the amendments tabled by the SD Group of Members. With the amendments that they just wanted to extend the agony of the property transformation of the Triglav Insurance Company, we cannot agree. The purpose of these amendments was to postpone the resolution of the property transformation of the Triglav Insurance Company for only two months in the future, but they did not offer the conditions to solve the fundamental problem of how to resolve the issue of individual beneficiaries, which the Constitutional Court had also stated, and should have been resolved long ago in the past. Authorised investment firms are a transitional form of investment funds. They were established to enable citizens to participate in the ownership of economic operators with their own certificates. In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate controlled and gradual privatisation and limited interventions by the State towards individual economic operators, and therefore we believe that privatisation of state-owned enterprises will increase their efficiency, quality of products and services and consequently the competitiveness of the economy. These are the main reasons why we will support this bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Given the fact that yesterday's mother's working body has rejected all amendments in accordance with the political will, of course, we cannot discuss this law in any substantive way today, so I repeat our opposition on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. We have not heard any logical arguments here in the entire debate, and also by the representatives of the Government, why it is necessary to correct something that we adopted half a year ago following an urgent procedure. We believe that it is actually a related act to amend this law so that some kind of "non-transparent privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company" can be carried out if you want to. And to argue that those who have been in line with the Property Change Act a few months ago - especially here I mean companies - should buy shares in the Triglav Insurance Company, which does not have information on the exchange price, is, of course, completely contrary to market logic. We believe that it would be correct for the Government to follow the Board of Insurance Triglav and the Supervisory Board of Insurance Triglav and Insurance Triglav to place on the stock exchange and then to carry out all procedures in accordance with the referendum will of each, three of the four Slovenians, Slovenk, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at a recent referendum. The government doesn't want that, the government wants arrogantly to take the right to share capital gains. Yesterday, we heard a lot of arguments on the working body about how this is not related. Well, several times today and yesterday it has been said that matters are directly linked. The Law on Property Change of Insurance, which we have to supplement in accordance with the referendum will, will be much harder to implement if Insurance Triglav does not correctly score on the Slovenian stock exchange. Therefore, we believe that the Government has found very subtle arguments because it wants to preserve the power of arrogance, political discretion, and share capital gains. This is a poor policy, a poor traveller to a country which, even in the same period, is chaired by the European Union, which has written in its documents that it respects the market economy, one of which is one of the basic criteria for information to a small shareholder about the right price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I must point out that, in the context of the group of unrelated Members of the Council, we regret that there is no broader debate today, but we stick to the rules of procedure and that is how it is. I must say that our decision has also been helped, unfortunately, by the ignorance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is eminent from this city. However, I would like to stress what basically led us in our decision-making. Firstly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Successions of the pids follows in particular one objective - the purpose of the insurance undertaking. However, this objective, which the Government offers us to accept and thereby assume responsibility, is in three elements. Firstly, contrary to the referendum’s will, secondly, it is contrary to the overall future image of the insurance company. The fact is, in this country is rarely known today, but those who know will be extremely well rewarded for what the future of this institution will be. The proposal, as on the table today, makes it possible, within the framework of its Article 2, to determine the share of the KAD under market price. The government tells us, us and the citizens and the citizens, that we will meet with IPO in the future, that is, the public offering or gathering of the best bidders, whether citizens or also foreign investors, which was within the framework of the New Maribor Credit Bank, today no one knows for sure. One fact is that the balance not owned by the SOD will be subject to a market price that will go from the KAD. At this address, citizens and citizens will not receive the promises made by the Government under any other heading. Therefore, once again from this city, the content which the Government has packaged in the national interest does not reflect the national interest. Why sell the state wealth that generations have built before us if we are in the period - but personally I do not believe that we are, but these are the words of the President of the Government - the budget surplus or surplus? From this title we also wonder why all these negative macroeconomic movements. However, the fact is that the National Assembly today should reject the said law and adopt an integrated picture of the insurance undertaking in order for such an executive authority to say transparently that the legislative branch of the authorities would transparently state what is going to happen and how it will happen or will even happen to that insurance institution. From this address, we will not support the above-mentioned text in the Lipa Group of Members or unrelated Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u28	Thank you. I don't know if anyone really asks who feels the most consequences of all the nonsense committed by the Government in the conduct of, or in this case, the Triglav Insurance Company or some other financial companies. In this case, the insurance company itself feels this because it does not really know and obviously does not have a strategy to follow with its work, it is felt by small shareholders of this insurance undertaking who cannot evaluate their shares or determine their prices on the stock exchange, and it also feels that, after all, a country which acts very stepmotherly in the possession of this property. And the case that we are dealing with today shows that the Government does not really master this area. Yesterday a solution was offered at the meeting of the parent committee to take 60 days for the Government to decide to consult to find appropriate solutions with all actors, both within the policy and within the profession. Like all other opposition proposals, the government has been vehemently rejected, and some members of coalition groups who oppose privatisation or disagree with the privatisation of Triglav, the People's Party and DeSUS, voted in favour of this law yesterday. So - one's talking, the other's working. They will bear the consequences themselves. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have already said in the presentation that we will not support this law because it brings more weaknesses than good qualities. And there is a particular argument for this inequality of shareholders before the law, before the constitution after all, which is actually in a position to experience an even greater inequality with this change of law than they have been given so far, when they have not actually been able to do anything with their shares. So now they will be bound to act in any way or to experience the fate dictated by the Government. All of this leads us in the LDS Liberal Democracy to vote against. We call on members of the coalition to do so, in particular those who express concerns about the manner in which KAD's stake in the Triglav Insurance Company is sold.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-16-SDZ4-Izredna-32.ana.u29	Thank you. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 41, for 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly and informing you of the following - please be advised - the Health Committee will continue the meeting in room 212 in 15 minutes. The Committee on Foreign Policy will continue its meeting or begin its meeting at 2.30 p.m. in the small hall at Tomšičeva 5 or in 15 minutes. One more time. The Committee on Foreign Policy will also begin its meeting in a small hall in Tomšič in 15 minutes. Thank you for your attention. I hereby adjourn the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 22 January at 12 noon. Thank you.
