ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I'm starting with the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: colleague Anton Anderlič, colleague Aurelio Juri, Matjaž Han from 12 o'clock forward, colleague Maria Pozsonec, Villa Rezman, Alojz Sok and Ambassador Majda Širc. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 22. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. We have 2 hours and 25 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading and I also give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Mr. Robert Marolt, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. You have before you the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, which brings the following objectives. Firstly, courts are allowed to obtain the information they need in order to establish the facts concerning the conduct of procedures under official records, registries and public books, which are kept in computerised form. In this way, courts are allowed to operate more efficiently and faster as well as to reduce costs. As is the case with the courts, the proposed amendments allow judicial experts to directly obtain the information they need in order to draw up expert opinions on the specific proceedings. Data can be obtained from official records and also from the private sector. This ensures a higher speed of judicial proceedings, not least a lower burden on the individual judge in relation to the acquisition of data. Such information shall only be available to the judicial experts on the basis of the accompanying order or decision of the court or judge for the production of the expert opinion. The third amendment concerns facilitating access, facilitating the business of the parties in judicial proceedings. In order to facilitate the exercise of the rights of the parties in judicial proceedings, it is possible for the courts themselves to obtain, on an official basis, the necessary judgment of the same court or of the judgment of other courts, as well as decisions of all the administrative authorities referred to and referred to by the parties or their case in specific judicial proceedings. Fourthly: the amendment simplifies the procedure for the appointment of a new member of the Council of Judges, if a member of the Council of Judges ends his term of office prematurely. At the same time, with a view to ensuring the continuity of the work of the Council of Justice, it is stipulated that a partial replacement of members of the Council shall be made every three years. It is a system similar to that known by the international courts, and in practice the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is similarly established. The fifth amendment refers to the possibility of setting up two, saying, in the case of a court with more than 50 judges, or even three, in the case of courts with more than 100 judges, vice-presidents of the courts, i.e. only the largest courts in the country in order to ensure better, more efficient and better quality management of the largest courts in the country. As we know, there are also the largest number of judicial backlogs, the largest number of pending cases in the biggest courts in Slovenia: the District Court in Ljubljana, the District Court in Ljubljana, and the Maribor Court. The following amendment concerns the determination of the areas of courts with the cadastral municipalities. The fact is that the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment, Merger or Change of the Community Area has changed several times. The number of congregations increased, and the Law on Courts applied to the congregations. Since this is constantly changing, we should also constantly amend the Law on Courts, so we propose that the determination of the areas of the courts, which virtually remains exactly the same as they are now, binds to the area of the cadastral municipalities, since the cadastral municipalities are permanent and are also unchanged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me say from the outset that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, because we believe that the proposed amendments are intended to improve the efficiency of Slovenian courts, we believe that the changes will burden the courts and that the judicial proceedings will therefore go faster. Today it is just so that when we think about Slovenian courts and the justice system, we think about the backlogs. It is the constitutional right of everyone to rule on his rights and duties and charges without undue delay on an independent, impartial and legally constituted court. Unfortunately, this right has been violated too often. People are looking for justice in the courts, and decisions are too long. The multi-annual wait for the first plea for main hearing in fair cases, in particular before the District Courts, was a long-term rule. While things are moving for the better, we cannot be satisfied with such a legal state. That is why we believe that the proposed amendments to the Law on Courts are welcome. We know that the Ministry of Justice, together with the Supreme Court and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, has already prepared an operational work plan for the resolution of judicial arrears in 2005. The main measures set out in the Lukend project are the provision of spatial conditions and the organisation of human resources in justice. Among other measures are the simplification of legislation, judicial information, additional training of judges and prosecutors, in particular in the area of economic crime, corruption and organised crime, the change in the legal tariff towards speeding up proceedings, the establishment of a system to speed up and facilitate the resolution of bountiful cases, the reorganisation and better administration of courts and, inter alia, to ensure greater security in the courts. We note that many of the solutions listed above have been put into this amendment and the addition of the Law on Courts, and therefore, in the SLS Group, it seems reasonable to support the changes that will positively affect the judicial backlogs so that they will be less and more effectively effective. We stress, however, that the right to a fair trial in addition to a swift and effective judicial system also contains the right to a high-quality judicial decision. We cannot aim only at swift judicial resolution, but above all to issue a proper and legal decision. It is understandable that the party submitting the request for judicial protection expects a conscientious and careful determination of the actual situation and a professional and legal correct decision in the case. We will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts because it allows the courts to obtain free of charge data from those official records, registries and public books which are necessary for the court to determine the facts relating to the conduct of proceedings and are kept in an informed form. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this court makes it possible to proceed more efficiently and faster in cases and that the public authorities are burdened with certain procedures for the transmission of data. A positive change is that the parties to the procedure will be able to facilitate the exercise of their rights, since they will not have to comply with those judgments of the courts and decisions of the administrative authorities relating to them or their case, but will have to be obtained by the court on an official basis. The changes that ensure the continuity of the work of the Council of Justice are also important. It will be more practical and effective if the term of office of members of the Court of Justice of a number of Judges is terminated early, to become a member of a number of Judges, the candidate who was next on the list of candidates. Up until now, the work of the Council of Justice has also made it difficult that every five years membership has been completely replaced. It is therefore reasonable for us to extend the term of office of the members of the Council to six years and that the election of half the members should take place every three years. This will ensure the continuity of decision-making. Although the Council of Justice considers that in the event of an increase in the number of Vice-Presidents of the Courts, it is only for the multiplication of functions, in the SLS Group we hope that this change will, however, contribute to better governance of the country's largest courts. We also hope that the introduction of meetings for members of the personal world will really help to ensure that at least 10% more files are resolved in a qualitative manner. Therefore, after the new meeting, the meetings of the personal councils should be convened outside the working time. However, judges, members of the personal councils, will have to maintain an unbridled scope of judicial work despite their work in the personal world. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the Republic of Slovenia has already been convicted of a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time before the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, we believe that even in this way, when members of the personal council are partly honored, they can do even more in their work. We also support the additions to the decisions of the Courts Act relating to the upgrading of security measures in the courts. These measures are intended to ensure the establishment of a uniform, modern and compatible security system which will provide a sufficient level of security for judges, judicial staff and other staff in the courts. There are too many threats of various attacks, and there are too many attacks at the moment of security. Therefore, among other things, it is also the imposition of a measure to record and store external electronic communications with the court. The Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore hopes for the positive effects of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, in terms of reducing judicial backlogs and better quality work of judges, so we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u6	Thank you for your words, Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the amendment of the Law on Courts. At the time of the submission of the bill, he had quite a few good solutions, but not enough to be supported unconditionally by DeSUS Members. In our first reading, we made a number of comments, also at the working body meeting. Although our parliamentary group supported the amendment in previous readings on the condition that the main shortcomings, which has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, will be addressed in the course of the legislative process. We now note that the amended proposal for a law includes more appropriate solutions that will contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs. This is how we support the acquisition of data, which is maintained in computerised databases of authorities based on direct electronic access. This arrangement will undoubtedly lead to faster judicial proceedings and, therefore, to a faster resolution of judicial cases, according to our assessment. We also support provisions that simplify the election of members of the Council of Justice, as we believe they will contribute to the controlled work of the Council of Justice. However, we still have concerns about the accumulation of judicial functions. In fact, it is proposed that some major courts should have two vice-presidents, the largest, with more than 100 judges, and even three vice-presidents. We believe that the current regime is more appropriate, since there are no unnecessary complications and setbacks in this area. Our parliamentary group will support the complementary proposal for a new Law on Courts. As has already been said, the latter also includes a number of comments that will contribute to the objective. This, however, is for the speedy conduct of the judicial staff in the handling of cases under their jurisdiction and thus for a more effective reduction of judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Member Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u8	Good afternoon! Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian National Party, we will, of course, support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, although we feel that there are still many things to be regulated within this law. Above all, it must be realized that many judges are doing their work very badly or not at all. If I turn it around a little bit, if we go to the Ljubljana court, there's no one there by nine, there's no one there at two, and we see a bunch of judges buying salads at the Ljubljana market. In this way, we will certainly not reduce waiting types and pending cases in court. There are many doubts about the judicial service and the fairness and also the correctness of judicial decisions, when some judges agree on what matters with one of their own, I would say, "patients", and then the next day they leave the judicial types and jump into almost, I will not say legally, but in the business yoke to the advocate of their former "patient". I think this actually shows strange relations and strange relations and situations in the Slovenian judiciary, between the judges and in general in this business. Judges can afford a lot because of the unlimited duration of their term of office, since they are more protected than anyone. Once seated on this judicial post, he has a so-called life term. No one can remove him from this position. He sits there, works, doesn't work, does good, does bad. And mostly they don't do well. Of course, there are exceptions, there are some exceptions, and those exceptions are all honor. But the average is horrifying. It is no wonder, therefore, that the judicial branch of power, after one month, has already dismissed the German controller because he has found that our judges work less than the Germans, have better equipment and even higher wages compared to the German judges. Very interesting. And it's logical that they didn't hold out for three months then, but it was necessary to send this man back early so that he wouldn't find any more discrepants. It is also interesting that judges have absolute immunity. The only ones in the country have absolute immunity; we do not have Members. Members, we only have immunity from prosecution, we don't have it before a civil suit. No one can sue a judge, and let him do so, and yet, I can say, a fraud. Many times - I can tell from personal cases - it was such a strange decision that legal experts, even outside, would laugh at their voices. That is why I like the possibility now that foreign lawyers in Slovenia will act in the same way as our lawyers. Foreign lawyers won't be able to get in the face, keep quiet, otherwise, and so on. [[...]] It is interesting that the European Court of Human Rights has so far found that in more than 200 cases Slovenia has violated human rights arising from a trial within a reasonable time. In that case, what happened? Judges who are directly responsible for these more than 200 cases in which the Republic of Slovenia had to pay damages were not even called to account, even though due to their negligence, ignorance, incompetence or similar cases. The fact is, all of us taxpayers were burdened by the fact that we were making up for those mistakes in our pocket. The mistakes made by the judges are, of course, the best thing to do is to hang them from someone else. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we have been saying all the time that a permanent term of office should be withdrawn from the judiciary. A permanent term may be given to a judge when he is satisfied that he will work in accordance with the law, that he will not make mistakes, in particular that he will not make deliberate mistakes and that he will not prefer certain parties to others primarily because of his political affinity. This is still happening, and many times things happen as they are planned in a political party. Even in my own cases, I know this very well, so that no judge would get upset and say it's not true. Oh, that's so true! Quite often, the Slovenian judiciary of the present time is very much reminded of that judiciary from the former common country. And I'd say there was less political preference there than there is today. And I must say that at the time there was respect for the right, and also for legality, substantially more than today. So the greatest sin is in the permanent term of judicial service. The fact is that judges should be appointed for a certain period. As it has been, for the period of eight years, to verify their operation in order to review their judgements, both condemned and exonerated, and then to evaluate and determine whether this judge could be given an additional eight-year term. It's like that everywhere. No, no, no. This is not the case in Slovenia. In Slovenia, "ex cathedral" we give them every opportunity and then we find mistakes and I will not say anything else. Imagine how a judge or judge can do so, mainly as a complete feminization of this profession when, at the age of 28, 29 years, he sits in a courtroom, assessing life matters and the life problems of the people who face it. He doesn't even understand! How will she understand?Oh, my God! It is necessary to have a long-standing practice for the trial, to know the living conditions, and to know a lot of other things. But not directly from college to the courthouse, and then we share the right to the left, just like we think. And if we find out in time that we broke it, we avoid the guilt with an excuse, it's human to be wrong. I've heard that before. Not to correct mistakes, but to be wrong is human. We don't need judges like that. To a certain extent, the new law also regulates these matters, although I think that a variant is omitted here, which should also be amended in the constitution and taken away from the judges a permanent mandate. Similarly, equality between judicial and parliamentary immunity should be introduced. It may also make sense to introduce something similar when we go as we approach the American or Anglo-Saxon system to introduce what the Anglo-Saxon system has, if it commits a crime or misuses its position as a judge, is punished with a double dose as if it were a common citizen, because these people have sworn, the ordinary citizen has not sworn anything to anyone except to defend his country if necessary. But it doesn't matter in Slovenia, we could have let it go. But the judge swore, and according to his oath he should be even more committed to this oath, justice, respect for law, legality and all that. We don't have that. The only thing is that gentlemen have immunity that protects them from everything. Many times it happened that it was those judges who had absolute immunity who punished an MP who spoke the truth in the National Assembly. Let us recall Mr Praise, whom the judges have put on a bereaved stick because of political preferences. I mean, something's already changed there, something's changed, even in this marriage something's changed, but I don't think it's good. There is something else we should settle in these matters, because the Slovenian judiciary determines two constants, this is the rise in judicial backlogs, including failures in terms of purchasing various salads and radishes for salads and the like, and the failure to admit their own guilt. If we do not handle this, we will not settle anything, so it makes sense that judges are also being punished for unemployment, and I am indirectly speaking the same for prosecutors and prosecutors. If we look at the case, say one prosecutor, he left almost four hundred files in his closet and was acquitted by the court. Does that Slovenian proverb also apply here so that crows do not turn off their eyes? Who's in danger now? It appears that citizens before judges and the judiciary, because in certain cases reserved for a narrow structural caste, will be judged in this way, all other citizens will be judged differently. I think it is horrifying and talking about the politicisation of the Slovenian judiciary. It would be hard to say that everything is going to a rumble of nonsense, because then it would be terrible to live in this country, but I still can't say any better. In short, we will support the law, unfortunately only part of the problem is governed by the law, but there is still time, and what kind of mandate there will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I'll present the position of the Lip Group myself. I promise I'll end up early. If there's anything we can't read to the department, it's a misdemeanor. The fact is that the Ministry, or rather, the Secretary of State is directing a great deal of energy and work towards the preparation of the legislation in question, i.e. legislation by the judiciary. There is also another fact of how successful this work is. According to the opinion of the Lip Group, we cannot attach to those who say that the work of the Ministry of Justice is successful. I believe that those who seek satisfaction in the judicial system for years and years cannot do so either on the part of those who initiate proceedings or on the part of those who defend themselves against proceedings. On the other hand, I can say with certainty that the system we have in our country in the field of justice is not good. That cosmetic corrections, and one of them is also within the framework of today's law or one of them is today's novels, will not lead to the system that we would have, but will not say in pride, but will at least be to our satisfaction over the efficiency, quality and fairness of the functioning of the organs within the Ministry of Justice. The fact is that, after all, since independence, Slovenian citizens have been complaining or complaining about the implementation, efficiency and activity of the judiciary. The fact is that we have been very often reminded of this in recent times by the institutions of the European Union, and the fact is that the quality of the work of the Ministry of Justice or the bodies in its composition are flown every day, I apologize, not every day, but almost every day, the actions against our country in the form of financial resources due to the failure to carry out the constitutionally mandated tasks they should. In the framework of the parliamentary group, we have raised the problem several times already, and I never expected to say that we could solve or create an effective situation in the judiciary with our left hand. The matter is heavy. Of course, it's hard to establish a system. However, it would be expected that at least the changes that are raining into the National Assembly in the field of legislation that is more or less touching the judiciary would be such as to indicate a light horizon or to give hope for all those who, as I have said, are seeking their right against the State or not who are seeking their right against others. From this title, in the framework of this law, at least after our assessment, there is no point of light indicating the relationship or excessive rights under procedural law and less under the title of substantive law. On several occasions, I or we have been assured, in discussions with legal experts within the context of the Lipa Group, that the overcoming of procedural law over substantive law allows for judicial backlogs. Not because of the lack or ignorance of judges, but because of the sudden opening up of a lot of variations that cause backlogs. According to our assessment, the spectrum of judicial backlogs or the functioning of the courts should be viewed from several perspectives. The fact is that in order to increase the judicial backlogs that we have already identified years ago, experts coming from abroad, which is not even so important, it is important that we, citizens and citizens of our Republic identify the judicial backlogs. However, this is a fact of the judicial backlog of a variety of circumstances. And the law before us today, according to our assessment, does not solve any of these factors. And if I go in line with the individual factors. Unfortunately, but it is true and it makes no sense that we are closing our eyes, that they are within some citizens and citizens, and many of them have become activities before a court of law already almost national sport. The fact is that many within our country, i.e. from ordinary people and all those who use the services offered and directed by the State, have become as a charge of free time, according to their own words, a lawsuit. I believe that despite unsolicited actions of this kind, such cases allow and accelerate judicial backlogs. Another fact to be pointed out and pointed out in the form of a bill is the act and the overriding of procedural law over substantive law. The fact is, I have also said several times about this State Assembly speaker, that only through procedural delays, procedural gaps are allowed to prolong those cases which are already clear to the judge at the first moment. But this is a processual relationship: material law is quite fast faced with the issue of human rights. Anyone who claims otherwise will say that the rights have been violated, let there be pedophiles, murderers, in short, defendants, if I try to concentrate them into just one element. Therefore, once again, the search or solution is not as simple as many would like to show. On the other hand, we have a Government of the Republic of Slovenia that has been able to seek, implement and legislate solutions for three years. According to my assessment of three years, there is only so little time to meet after three and a half years, but I don't want to be sorry, I just want to show our view of the law, with primary school material, as defined in the law that is before us today. And if I remember correctly, and I know that, the frequency of offering laws that are always adopted by the Ministry of Field Affairs is exceptional in this area. I want to say that there is almost no meeting of the National Assembly, where there would be no element involved in the judicial proceedings, and that the Prosecutor should be present in private, anyone, with a proposal for amendments to the law. It's over. I think that what we are doing within the legislative branch of power can also be a certain culprit for judicial backlogs. Why? Because every month we accept a novelty, a new law that the government will say simplifies, lawyers will say that it expands their space of manoeuvre, and judges will say that it imposes additional work on them. Perhaps all of this changes to the legislation in question from day to day are also one of those reasons that increase the judicial backlog and thus the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens with a state apparatus where the very sovereign judicial branch of power bears the name of the autonomous branch of power. I believe or in the Lipa Group are the ones who believe in less change, but root changes. And the flood that lies before us today does not represent a fundamental change. In our firm conviction, it does not represent the hope that will cause or hope that suggests a reduction in judicial backlog. As part of the Lip Group, we will therefore not support the law that is before us today, because we are not advocates of those who would give their vote to the law just so that the law is passed and its contents remain inconclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u10	The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Dimitrij Kovačič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that. One of the important, very important human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also guaranteed by international conventions and is consistent with democratic principles, is also the right to a trial within a reasonable time. This right is still not fully guaranteed, despite the fact that the Lukenda project, which has been running for several years, has produced positive results and the backlogs are smaller than they were. However, they have not yet been eliminated, which has been and is still our goal. That is why we must strive with all legal means to make this happen. Of course, the state is not the one that can eliminate the backlogs. The judicial backlog will have to be eliminated only by the judiciary, but of course this does not mean that the State and the Government and the National Assembly can only wait for this to happen, but can, by creating such conditions and conditions to the judiciary, make these backlogs easier and faster to eliminate. The State may, by its legislation, by means of specific enforcement measures by the Government, create such conditions and conditions in which the judiciary will be able to carry out this task more easily. In the final stage, of course, the judiciary is the one who will have to do it. In the National Assembly, we have adopted a new Law on Courts on this subject several times, and this novel is one of these paths today. I myself believe that this is probably not the last time, and it will probably be necessary in the future to accept another novelty in this direction. But every step is welcome and certainly this law, which is now under consideration, is an important step towards making courts easier and more effective so that, of course, this will also contribute to reducing or eliminating judicial backlogs. Surely, the changes made by this law are such as to make it easier and more efficient for the courts to work. And the Court's access to computerised databases is certainly one of these paths. The possibility of the courts being obliged to obtain, on an official basis, the necessary court judgements and other decisions of the administrative authorities referred to by the parties to the proceedings create an opportunity for more efficient work. It also allows more flexibility in assigning judges' cases to correct the system of assigning judges' cases so that it can also contribute to better and more efficient and faster work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, where we support the proposed law, we also believe that simplifying the procedure for appointing a new member of the Council of Justice, when some have an early termination of the mandate, means more adapting to the changes and also dividing them, dividing the appointment of new members in such a way that half of them are appointed after three years, so that, in spite of the fact that the mandate now takes place after this amendment, six years in order to replace half of them every three years, contributes to a better continuity of the work of the Council of Justice. On the contrary, some of us believe that the possibility of appointing vice-presidents in larger courts means better court management, better business, in short, better management, which is very important for the courts to prepare themselves for the best and most effective implementation of their mission. Finally, security in the courts itself is important, and this bill makes such a change that can improve this security. And all of this represents an important step, as I have already said in the introduction, towards better organisation, greater efficiency, that is to say, to create better conditions for courts to be able to carry out the Lukende project to a greater extent than ever before, which will bring about a reduction or abolition of judicial backlogs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It must be acknowledged that the proposal for a court law in the present parliamentary procedure has been significantly improved, as the amendments adopted have eliminated some of the most controversial solutions. However, there are still some provisions that would require more substantial consideration. Every law in the field of justice has been provided in this mandate with a comment to help improve the efficiency of the courts and the speedy resolution of judicial backlogs. The Ministry thus asserts this every time, even if it has been amending and supplementing the same law for the fourth time in this mandate. This time, the proposed amendment instructs the courts to obtain, on an official basis, the necessary judgments of the courts and decisions of the administrative authorities referred to or proposed by the parties to the proceedings. This is certainly beneficial for the parties and, in view of the rationality and economic nature of the proceedings and the additional burden of the courts, it is not disputed. Much more appropriate is the wording of Article 2 which we previously opposed and regulates the allocation of cases to judges. It is less likely that the principle that a judge must be elected according to the rules predetermined by law and by judicial order, as provided for in our Constitution, could be played. The question of proportionality of measures such as recording and storing telephone calls, e-mails, fax messages, voice mail and SMS services that individuals from outside refer to courts or judges is still raised. The applicant argues that this cannot be disputed because the individual will be informed in advance of the recording. We believe there are still some unresolved issues. The Ministry is also faithful in this law in its manner that in several places it has redefined the powers and powers of the Minister of Justice, which of course shows the tendency for the executive power, wherever possible, to be imposed and immersed in the functioning of the judiciary. Thus, the Minister of Justice gives his consent to the meeting, which shall belong to the members of the Personal Councils of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court for participation in the meetings of the Personal Council. The National Assembly shall decide on the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court on a reasoned proposal from the Minister. However, the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court must deliver a reasoned opinion within 30 days of the Minister's request. As the Minister has already ensured a greater role in the appointment of the presidents of the District Courts, he also attributes it here in relation to the President of the Supreme Court. This provision could also be read as follows: "Mr President of the Supreme Court, just see that you maintain a friendly relationship with the Minister of Justice." It is also the Minister who, in the previous opinion of the President of the District Court, may establish an external department or departments of that Court. For the sake of this, which is why we do not agree in the Group of Members, we will not support this law, nor will we oppose it. The coalition has enough votes and several additional votes, which continue to give rise to bad opinions about the judiciary and judges. We disagree with such flat-rate assessments, so, as we say, we will not support the law, nor will we oppose it. The coalition will have to vote on it, which won't be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u15	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President, Secretary of State! In front of the National Assembly, there is once again one of the rich bouquets of laws brought to us by Minister Sturm, but we must say that hyperactivity has never guaranteed any good productivity. It's just an extensive process that we've witnessed even in the last year of this term, when an accident is called a bill from the Ministry of Justice, not one, usually three, four, five on the Committee on Internal Policy, and we're looking at it, so it's always more than ten. One wonders why such a desire for these large amounts of change. The changes are not only quantitatively large, but are also substantively large and are always in the back of the stolen name Lukenda. I wonder if Mr. Lukenda will ever remember saying that his name is being misused. In fact, it rarely happens that we get a common name from our own name, which is a "pen" with the words "ceppelin", we Slovenians are innovative here, we have Lukando and then we drag him into this National Assembly as an excuse for everything. Poor man, actually, I would say. Instant and such bonus solutions continue to be repeated, with an excuse to make it better for citizens and citizens, and in fact this always happens when the state has to pay some penalty for judicial failure. So here's the source. And since it's everyone's business, and obviously the country has something human, nervous, then it starts looking for magical solutions. Solutions to change laws all the time, because something goes wrong around here, and a little bit of "overwhelm" is being replaced, and then another goes away, etc., etc., these laws change. On the other hand, if we are looking for a common denominator for all these changes, we find it in the obvious need to serve not only one master, but also another country. That is why a law, including that, took into account any kind counsel or recommendation or amendment from the opposition. That's what happened here, too. That is why this sharpness of the original proposal is very popular and is no longer such a direct attack on the independence of the judiciary, but it remains a little more subtle. The initial changes to the law were totally unacceptable for the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as they imposed this independent branch and almost dried up. But you know that they're only good for making scandals, and there's certainly no healthy fruit for them. However, when the dignity and privacy of citizens were protected by changing one article, and when the second amendment allowed or allowed the constitutional right to a natural judge to stand still, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we felt that the law was at least acceptable for force. Therefore, we will not oppose him, but we certainly do not welcome him into not bragging about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Zupan will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, distinguished Vice President, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Within fourteen years of the adoption of the Law on Courts, there have been several amendments and additions in line with the needs and requirements of time. This amendment is intended to complement the current regulation with some new institutes that will contribute to a more effective part of the courts, as it is estimated that the current legal regime of some institutes does not yet allow the effective resolution of judicial backlogs. The proposed amendments and additions to the law are related to the implementation of the Lukend Joint State Project, which aims to remedy judicial backlogs until 2010 and to ensure the constitutional and convention right to a trial without undue delay. The Lukenda project proved to be successful in particular in the higher courts and in some district courts, where they achieved 50% of the realization and thus the aim of the ongoing resolution belongs to the cases. However, a number of district and district courts are still far from the goal pursued. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice has implemented other measures to ensure greater efficiency in the area of spatial conditions by purchasing business premises, investment maintenance, land purchases for the purpose of building new buildings, in the human resources area by appointing new judges, providing security in the courts, providing additional training for judges, prosecutors, lawyers and other staff in the judiciary, and much more. In this mandate, we have amended several laws relating to the functioning and regulation of the courts. Given the results of the changes that have been made, we would hope to say that these changes have been for the better. Of course, the situation is still far from ideal, but we are aware that large-scale systemic movements need more time. Not long ago, the Minister of Justice received a guarantee from the Minister of Finance that an additional three million euros will be provided for judges, in addition to existing funds, totalling six million euros only for the purpose of remedying judicial backlogs. The criteria for the distribution of these funds should be laid down by the Council of Justice. The only criteria for distribution are not only the number of cases resolved, but also their complexity and the question of whether it is an older matter. However, the judges do not want this gift, as they themselves said, so they predict the sentence. The proposed amendment amends the law in the field of record-keeping, makes the allocation of cases more flexible, simplifies the procedure for appointing a new member of the Judicial Council. The larger courts will also be able to have several vice-presidents, the Council of Justice and the Minister of Justice will have direct access to the computerised registers, information will also be available to the media on the basis of a written statement, the area of the courts will be linked to the cadastral municipalities, the officials of the Ministry of Justice will be able to supervise the implementation of the rules of the judiciary and the application of the rules on judicial fees. This brings the proposed novels. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the good functioning of the judiciary as one of the three branches of government is extremely important for the country. The legislative branch is also trying to contribute to this by amending legislation. However, the task of judges is to carry out their work conscientiously and properly. We believe that the proposed amendment contributes to a more efficient work of the courts, so we will support it in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you very much. With Ambassador Majda Zupan's performance, we have also concluded by presenting the views of the Group of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. I will lead the debate on the basis of the list of applicants, and the Secretary of State may be included in the debate at any time when he tells me to. But to my word I call on the Member of the Holy Spirit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members. Why change? This question was heard in this room today. I'm surprised and I wonder why such a question. Don't Members who ask this answer this question have answers? Are the situation in the Slovenian judiciary serious enough to make the answer clear? This bill, which we are considering today, is also aimed at improving at least some of the changes in the Slovenian courts. Let me touch the time four years ago when this government took over the mandate when Minister Lovro Sturm took over the Ministry of Justice. It is certain that the situation at the time was bad that the situation was very bad, mainly because of the accumulation of large judicial backlogs. And I think the Minister acted very responsibly when he joined the case-solving process in the field of justice. In fact, I think it will also have to be asked about the liability for the compensations that have already been and for all the compensations that will still be paid to the Republic of Slovenia, at the expense of the judicial arrears. The Ministry has indeed taken responsibility, and I think that much has done in this mandate both materially and in the area of court premises and in the field of human resources. And if the amendment of legislation is also aimed at actually achieving a faster, more efficient part of the courts, it is only commendable. And this law brings a lot of issues that will make it possible for the courts to work more quickly. The court information was very late, I must say that I was very surprised, as a judge of the jury, when I saw at the hearings how keyboardists typed the process of hearings when they were already using computers in all other bodies, when they already had digital records and when this enabled faster and normal work. I think that the informationisation of the courts has actually taken place and that it is also possible on the basis of this faster business of the courts. This law entails that the authorities are obliged to provide information to the court, that the court also has direct access to databases that are computerised, and this is something that can actually cause the courts to work much faster. I think the time has come for the end of what has happened to the courts to demand documents that they themselves have issued. This was also the case in many other bodies when the parties had to propose to the Authority documents, decisions, decisions, permits which they had issued themselves. This was also the case in administrative units when you had to submit an administrative permit for the adaptation of the house and this building permit was issued by the same administrative unit. I think that changes in this law are also friendly to people, because they will no longer have to deliver data, conclusions and cases led by either courts or public authorities or other institutions. So it's a relief for both the parties and the courts themselves. As long as all the remaining legislation in the field of the Ministry of Justice is adopted, I am sure that it will be possible to bring about a new impetus in the work of the courts and that it will finally be possible to remove these judicial arrears more quickly for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia as a country, especially for all those who have waited so long for justice in the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic. Comrade Barovich, can you hang up the phone?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I apologize for the obligations I have. As it is said, the basic objective of the law we are talking about is to eliminate judicial backlogs and to make the courts more effective. This is a goal that we all want to achieve together. And that's good. It is true, however, that respected colleague Marolt knows that there are many mistakes yet to be settled by the courts. And I'm going to start basically. It is incomprehensible that a judge cannot do anything in his regular time if we give him the money from the Hercules programme, but from the Lukend programme, he can. This is, of course, incomprehensible, and this is what those responsible must do. Another time. Question is, Mr. Marolt knows that well, district courts. Why was the centralisation of district courts necessary? So that the artificial backlogs increase. Why the Ripper has to go to Ljubljana for one thing, I will say to myself, divorce, but if there was a district court in the Rippers. Because it was easier because the case was scattered and it went faster. And now we are talking to our respectable colleagues so that at least the exhibitions of these things can be brought back, because this is also one of the accelerations in the resolution of matters and that is true. It's not like we're "hitting" now who's gonna buy something, who's gonna give something. It's not fair to people, not to us. And last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, the reduction of waiting lines will only be possible with changes to the law. And even if one in ten things changes, it's better than none. But what I want is for the representatives of the competent ministry to hear it, write it down and make them burden the district courts, to do whatever it takes, and to listen to us. Because we are here talking about, colleagues and colleagues, that we should also present to people the problems they are and let people know them and let them know the competent ones where they work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you. However, Member Jože Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We could argue that the overload of courts of all degrees and competences and the inability to decide quickly have become a real European, not just a Slovenian, phenomenon. The European Court of Human Rights' data on the cases received and the data on the backlog in our country have already been eloquent about this. On the other hand, the situation in which legal systems have been found due to the increasing scope of legal regulations and thus the increased jurisdiction of the courts is the individual, the person who still expects his or her rights or obligations or charges against him to be decided as soon as possible. This is not just a matter of expectation, but also a legal justification, since the State must, in accordance with the provisions of international treaties and guarantees in its own constitution, grant it the right to be tried within a reasonable time. The European Court of Human Rights in its rulings repeatedly recalls that the right to be denied is equal to the right denied. Indeed, it is not only the possibility of access to the court or the introduction of procedural guarantees and the right to make a decision itself, but it recognizes the decision, and even though it is beneficial for an individual, often there is nothing more to do with it. A very illustrative case for this claim is one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, by which, in the case of a constitutional appeal for a violation of the right to a trial without undue delay, the proceedings were brought to a halt on the grounds of the complainant's death. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is a fundamental document on the basis of which the Council of Europe's mechanism for the protection of human rights works, and thus certainly the most important achievement of this interstate organization in the field of human rights protection. It is also the first international instrument on human rights to protect a wide range of civil and political rights, both in its form, i.e. an international treaty legally binding its parties, as well as by establishing a system to monitor the enjoyment of human rights in the Member States. It will probably be true that the more legal remedies accumulate, the less effective the protection of rights can be. The right to a trial within a reasonable time is a good illustration of this claim. Regardless of which solution the legislator will define, it should be stressed that this must happen as soon as possible, not only in the absence of convictions before the European Court of Human Rights, which are of course painful for the affected country, but mainly because of the individual, because of a citizen who certainly cannot be trusted in the effectiveness of judicial proceedings and justice at all. It is expensive, complex and long-term that it must go to Strasbourg for justice also in cases where a country with high reliability can predict that the dispute will be lost. Therefore, why regulate the situation in the courts, why improve the staffing of the courts, why make exceptional investment in the resolution of the spatial problems of the courts in the Republic of Slovenia - in order to actually ensure the realization of human rights. The Ministry of Justice has repeatedly been evident, especially in recent times, that it is hyperactive, that is good, that is positive. It is about adopting as many quality solutions as possible in this National Assembly, so that many human rights violations will not occur. And I am pleased that we are considering the amendment of the Law on Courts, which is aimed in this direction, in order to optimize the trials, to actually ensure that there are no new and new violations of human rights, and that is why I will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. He's not here. I invite Ambassador Mir Petk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Good bye to all of you. The novelty of the law shows support, for at certain points of the amendment of the Law on Courts they provide better conditions for the work of Slovenian judges. It is important that this law also provides for the upgrading of security measures in the courts, and this is important for both the judges and the staff in the courts and the parties themselves in the proceedings. Thus, it is important to protect with video surveillance and, in particular, it is my opinion that it is important to establish such material conditions in such courtrooms in order to allow for a normal trial. It is the appropriate size of certain court halls, because I felt on my own skin in my process in a very small debate hall, how you have suspects behind you who are crocheting with chains on their feet and where there is almost personal contact with the victim, and such experiences are extremely unpleasant not to mention that they are still threatening you behind your back. I also support these accession controls in the courts, which need to be extended, to be properly regulated and, above all, to be properly monitored. Let me rephrase my case. I was recently in Maribor in a court of law, where I went through all these checks, and my lawyer went through these checks. Sam had a big bag with him that he was a lawyer, and he was betrayed only by a corner that he had over his arm. I think that the central issue is how to achieve better work by Slovenian judges. On the scoreboard, the judges are quite strong at the beginning, often even behind us, for the Members. And of course, the central question is, will the judges on this scale advance if they receive such salaries as we have Members, which has recently been debated for a long and broad time, and it is often added that if judges had the same salaries as Members of Parliament, should judges have the same mandate as Members? The question is whether these sentence requirements of judges on the other hand also lead to a better part of the judges, to the abolition of judicial backlogs, to a reduction in corruption. In this Chamber we have heard many times in the past that major traffic penalties will not reduce the worst traffic accidents on Slovenian roads. We have also heard allegations that life imprisonment should not reduce the worst crimes. Following this analogy, it could also be concluded that the double, triple salaries of Slovenian judges would not contribute to a better trial, to improving the situation in the Slovenian judiciary. In my opinion, this is primarily a matter of value, a question of profession, a question of morality and, ultimately, a question of courage, which is often lacking in judges in their judgments. In one of the previous discussions, I have already stressed that it is also necessary to amend Article 114 of this Act and to add the 45th to the 44 District Courts in Slovenia, which is at Ravna in Koroška. The flats are the seat of the largest administrative unit in Koroškem, have the largest number of inhabitants, the country has spaces on the Plains - 600 square meters of state space, in Slovenj Gradec, and we are building, building additional spaces on the District and District Court, and of course this is pointless and it is also harmful on the part of the State. Now, as regards the network of district courts, Koroška is not evenly geographically distributed, nor is it evenly accessible to the inhabitants of all Koro Koroška or to all Koroška municipalities at the time of such division of district courts. But this is a debate for the future. I'll still support the new marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you very much. But to my word, I'd like to invite a magician. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you so much for saying that. If we listen carefully to the citizens, to the various media, to what they think about the courts, to the judges, we can quickly find that they are not satisfied with their work. As far as information is concerned, this area of justice has fallen asleep. With regard to the accumulation of backlogs, how does this rule, the right deferred, the right denied, and that is how citizens feel on their shoulders. Poor organisation of work: judges often complain that they have a lot of work to do - and they really have it, only the question of why they carry out administrative procedures, why they don't transfer it to administrative co-workers, and they focus in particular on trial, quality trial. In fact, lawyers, the ones we discussed yesterday, how we should autonomously control our space, would benefit most from this area of justice, so it would be right to put them in the place they belong to. And when the issue of salaries has already been raised, citizens, on the basis of what they receive from this system, are not satisfied and do not support the changes made by the judges. It is therefore right that the Ministry and the Government have approached with amendments. We have heard about the updating of the hearing halls, court halls, information. Of course, something will also have to change in the minds of the judges and those in charge of the courts. With regard to the Court of Justice, on the exchange of information between courts, on the acquisition of data from other institutions for the purposes of the trial, and also on the fact that citizens can obtain the necessary information from the Court in order to facilitate their access to their rights. In short, these are all the necessary changes that are in this law and that need to be adopted and nothing means and it makes no sense to take into account certain comments in this Chamber that the Ministry and the Minister are too hasty with these amendments. These changes should have happened a long time ago. Now for a permanent term of office. The permanent term of office may be because we understand it as a license. It's like getting a driver's license. But that doesn't mean that the judge works with this license for an indefinite period of time. It's not binding anywhere. And why there is no practice for a certain period of time. Why not?? This would then also contribute to greater competitiveness, greater responsibility for the work of judges and judges would seek to do their work in the way they are expected to do. And then it would be entirely justified that their starting wages are the same as those of Members. I do not object to anything - but why would they have such salaries and then have them fix and remedy the backlogs, of course, then it will also apply that they should not carry out other business like Members, and every four years they should go to the elections to check their support. Under these conditions, we are all, in fact, equal, why not. I support them very much in their efforts, and in the end, let them reduce their salaries by 20%, as Members have done. If they agree to this offer, let them, of course, accept it and do it. I fully support them in their efforts, but, of course, I support all these changes to the law prepared by the Ministry or the Government, which will help improve the work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-welcome Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! I also believe that the situation in the Slovenian courts is quite serious, especially in the light of the so-called judicial backlogs, which are certainly due to various factors and those which have a negative impact on the work or functioning of the courts, it is necessary to remove or improve the situation in court so that the courts can be more efficient and quality-enhancing. And that change of law certainly does. All these solutions will certainly help to improve the situation, and from this point of view I will also support this legislative change. Surely it is also necessary to follow today's time in court, and today, without a suitable information system, it certainly is not going to work. And if we need it more, then it must certainly be settled in court, not to mention the other improvements mentioned in this law, as well as the fact that, above all, there should be more vice-presidents in the larger courts, which I also agree will certainly contribute to better court management. This is certainly an additional quality that is expected to contribute significantly to efficiency in the future. I therefore believe that this law will bring a lot of good, both for the courts on the one hand and for all parties, and from this point of view I will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The State Secretary shall be involved in the debate. Mr. Marolt, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members and honourable Members! If you'll excuse me, I'd respond a little, because during the debate it was obvious that the backlogs were not shrinking. If you don't mind, I'd like to make it clear that it's not true. On the contrary, judicial backlogs are shrinking. The number of pending cases is also decreasing. For information only, last year, the number of major outstanding cases decreased by 11%, saying that 11% had dropped the number of major outstanding cases in all Slovenian courts if we were looking at the whole. In terms of judicial backlogs, it is said that judicial backlogs are the category where court proceedings last at first stage for more than 18 months and are therefore cases of potential compensation, some have already been judged by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The number of such cases is said to have taken place for more than 18 months at the first stage or, as appropriate, in the higher courts, has decreased significantly. For information only, last year the number of such cases decreased by even 37.4% compared to the previous year in the higher courts. However, when we look at 2007 compared to 2004, it is said, compared to the previous mandate, that even 69.6% were reduced in the higher courts. So, this is proof that the removal of judicial backlogs is carried out intensively and qualitatively. Of course, in some of the first-degree courts, some of the district courts, in particular the smaller district courts and smaller district courts, the number of judicial backlogs decreased to 71% if we are looking at 2007 compared to 2004 - for example, in Ajdovščina. Compared to last year, the number of judicial delays decreased by 23.9% in Ajdovska. For example, in Krske last year, 18% fell by year before and even 70% by year 2004. So the courts intensively solve the oldest, most difficult cases and thus eliminate the backlogs. Then, looking, for example, at the District Court in Škofja Loka, last year it reduced by 30% in 2006 and 47% in 2004, respectively. This proves that judicial backlogs are being intensively eliminated. As regards the reduction in the number of pending cases at all, last year's work and social courts were very successful and also very effective, especially the Higher Labour and Social Court. However, when we look at Lukend's project, the project for the abolition of judicial backlogs, it was practically achieved in last year by all the higher courts, the Supreme Court of Labour and also by a number of smaller district courts. But we must not forget this, and we will always stress this, for the statistics of the courts are clear. The backlog began in 1995, 1996 and was also created in 1997 due to an ineffective, reckless and unreasonable reform of the judicial system in 1994. As far as court security is concerned. See, security is also one of the segments that has been practically completely, unfortunately, neglected in past court mandates. The fact is that we also had to tackle the resolution of security in Slovenian courts within the framework of this mandate, within the framework of the project on the abolition of arrears. And here a number of measures have been taken in recent years, a number of measures are also being implemented this year and all Slovenian courts are expected to be adequately equipped and thus provided with security by the end of this year. We must not forget the numerous threats posed by the bombings on Tavčar's 9. I think you all remember well, but not only here, there were threats in Kranj, Krška and elsewhere, in other Slovenian courts. This caused great damage, since the whole of Tavčareva, the entire judicial building had to be emptied several times, the treatment had to be cancelled, it was said, that the procedures had not been completed, and there was also a large amount of property and other material damage. As far as the establishment of the external departments is concerned. The fact is that this enables the possibility, and in particular allows the parties to have the possibility in court proceedings to rule on a court in an external department, is generally meant in the seats of the District Courts, of course in agreement and with the agreement of the Presidents of the District Courts. As this will also guarantee the constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time, as a result also the rights set out in the European Convention on Human Rights and accessibility to courts. As a result, the costs of the parties in the proceedings will also be reduced and therefore the costs of the entire proceedings will also be reduced. In this way, however, greater efficiency will also be achieved, greater participation by the parties in judicial proceedings, which, if we look at everything in full, leads to greater satisfaction for the parties in judicial proceedings and, of course, also the satisfaction of the courts, judges and judicial staff. As regards the additional or mentioned, administrative and other judicial staff in the courts. It is a fact that the Government has also provided and approved additional resources for additional employment, not only for the additional employment of judges and judges, but also for additional employment, 750 new additional posts for a certain period of time, judicial staff; that is, staff assisting in the resolution and the work of the courts. Of course, for a certain period of time, for a period of time until the abolition of judicial arrears. So, in summary, it is a set of several measures, not only legislative but also practical, organisational, technical, security and spatial conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u33	Honourable Presidents, Valuable Fellows and Fellow Members! I'm having these furiminating conversations that we've heard, in fact, quite a few questions. In fact, the Lukend project continues to appear. Now I'm curious because the Secretary of State is here, he'll be happy to answer my questions. When referring to the courts that had shown good results, we found out the figures as a percentage. These actually don't mean much to me if an improvement of 5, let's say, cases, means 60%, it's something else than if it means 1%. The courts were listed, as far as I can remember, which were never problematic, nor had any major backlogs, and it is certainly possible to achieve good results there. In the case of judicial failures, I would also like to know whether the gauges for judicial backlogs are the same as for the period prior to this enlightenment - said before 2004 and after 2004. Is that the same thing? And, of course, when do you expect to get close to the zero line? In fact, we know very well that it is not only the reason for the judicial backlogs that they changed in 1994, say, according to your judicial system, but that at that time the fate was also greatly increased by various other laws. That's how I like to stick to the principle, if we're talking, then let's say everything, set all the parameters, not just what's good: you're going to eat cream there, and we're going to drink orphans - or what it is. Let's at least be honest with each other for strength. We know that, in this desire and with the important right to a trial within a reasonable period of one of the fundamental rights, however, we must ask ourselves how much, for example, you have learned in measuring judicial backlogs from the Ministry of Health, which has also reduced the waiting line by not entering. Also here in this basic proposal of this law was this intention: until it is granted, it is not signed in and then there will be no judicial backlog. If we close our eyes, it's dark, but, unfortunately, not for the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. It is no different than not to be cheered up by what Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice said earlier. In short, Lukenda is being realized, the backlogs are being driven away with incredible haste, percentages are flying into the sky and so on. Perhaps you have said this address too soon, perhaps you would expect to say it just before the elections and try to convince voters how good and excellent everything was in the area of justice and the functioning of the courts during your term of office. Thus, the attitude of this Ministry to judges and to their salaries, where Minister Šturm and Minister Virant do not in any way give up, is also incomprehensible, not to this extent, in recognition of the fact that the Constitutional Court has already stated its own wages and that the judges should in fact be the ones who, in the first place, decide on their own salaries. I don't know, you say some of the judges are out of work, and I ask you how you imagine the situation when it goes, say, for a judge in a district court, a district court, you know, that you're dealing with, in principle, harder, more difficult cases, and this judge in a district court has the standard of 20 closed trials in one month. The month, as far as I know, 20 working days as a rule, is said to have to solve at least one case every day, write down, explain, sign the main hearing, question witnesses, review a large number of documents, review legislation. Can you say that this is not much work, 20 closed cases in one month in 20 working days? I'm certainly not the one who'd be the judge's lawyer all the time and all, but I do object to so often, so casually and flatly treating things and throwing them all in one basket. It has been said, for example, that the Ministry of Justice is very busy, even hyperactive, and that this is good. I cannot agree with this at all, because I believe that too much legislative work - and here we are dealing with the situation that we have changed the same law four times or even five times in this term. This means that those proposals coming into Parliament are also poorly thought out and poorly weighed. And it must be recognized that poorly prepared legislation generates new proceedings before a court. If the legal norm is not specific, if the legislation does not specify and define a legal relationship, there are, of course, more who will go to the court to find an answer to this question of their own and, in this regard, their own case, which is at that moment. So of course it makes sense. Not to mention that this very Ministry of Justice, in this mandate, almost generally came up with a proposal for a law, which the Legislative and Legal Service then warned that there was a lack of opposition or non-conformity to the Constitution. I'm sure it's even rude for some serious department, especially for the Department of Justice. Remember, in the first half of this mandate, the opposition in despair has put several initiatives to assess the constitutionality of individual laws before the Constitutional Court. Some SDS MPs at the time invented such a proper slogan, so that "the opposition sends the stampede to the Constitutional Court." But look at the outcome of these initiatives in the Constitutional Court: as a rule, at least at some point the Constitutional Court gave us the right. It seems that in the second half of this term we have already given up, because we have learned that, for example, the Minister is not even a marketer on the working body, if the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service makes it clear to him or warns him that there may be a provision contrary to or inconsistent with the Constitution. And that's why I'm sure that, of course, this ministry doesn't have to sing praises. So that we don't accidentally talk about this last shame of accepting the Penal Code. Do you know what this means that the Penal Code changes in such a large way that the fundamental postulates of criminal law change in general work? First, the judges will have to study this matter well. In front of them are probably prosecutors, lawyers, and I am not talking about how this actually affects law studies in this country. It is truly a miracle that there is still so much quality work in the courts, given the kind of clutter that this National Assembly accepts. I do not think by any means as some others do, but this proposal of the law will now give new impetus to the work of the courts. I don't know where you see the reasons for what a special new start in court! At the moment, as far as I know, we are facing dissatisfied judges, and I think this should be taken care of, if not otherwise, of course, of the Minister of Justice and also of this legislative body. It is serious, and it is, of course, unacceptable to deal with these problems in such a flat and nonchalant manner. I don't understand at all, because something was mentioned here when we argued that the high penalties relating to the Road Traffic Safety Act and the Penal Code would not reduce the number of offences and criminal offences, and thus the higher salaries for judges would not give them a new impetus to do more. I don't even see the logic of this comparison! I have to say, I'm sure that doesn't make sense, because on the one hand, you're talking about penalties and on the other hand, you're talking about salaries. Unless you think they'd punish the judges with higher wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you, too. I invite Member Dimitri Kovacic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A little while ago, we heard why some were singing praises to this ministry. I don't know who's singing the praises. And I didn't hear anything like that said today. Why should we sing praises to someone who does what is entrusted to him and for what he is competent under the law? This ministry is doing what it has to do, unlike the previous ministry, where this has not happened. And that is also why we are faced with so many problems, and that is why this ministry has to draw up more acts, more laws than it would have been if what was needed in the past was done in the past. Therefore, this must also be replaced, which has not happened before. It was also said that this debate today and all that has been said should be listened to by the Ministry in order to do something else that would reduce or eliminate judicial backlogs. This is true, and of course it is true that, above all, we should listen more to it in the court itself, the courts themselves. For the courts are the ones who will have to do the most directly, including that these judicial backlogs will be reduced and these judicial backlogs will be removed. The country, as I said in the introduction, is obliged to create the best possible conditions, the best possible situation for the judiciary to be able only to do as much as possible to remedy the backlogs. The judiciary is the third branch of power, independent and autonomous, and, of course, you cannot expect the country to be the one that will do everything in its power to eliminate these judicial backlogs. No! No! The judiciary must only do so and the state must offer them the best possible conditions for doing so. And these conditions and these conditions for this to happen are today significantly better than they were - again I will make a comparison - in the previous term. As the government and the ministry have now more systematically and qualitatively addressed this problem and are working seriously to improve these conditions as far as possible. But it's still the judiciary that has to make a point on the I. And a lot of times, a lot of times today, he doesn't do everything he has to do. I think the judiciary should just do more. And when we're talking about court information, we're talking about better conditions in this area. Yeah. There are significantly better conditions today. The State has also made a substantial number of resources available to this segment, but the judiciary has still not taken advantage of all this potential and it is information, although it is at a high level, in its own implementation and in its own use of this information, that there are still many cases that these processes are not at the same level as everyone would like. I don't want to think about it. We are still facing an archaic approach, for example in paying court fees. It's something amazing. Do you know how court fees are paid? I'll tell you, I don't know if it's all over Slovenia, but it is in Ljubljana. You pay a court fee, you go to the bank, to the post office, wherever you make the payment, you get a certificate that you made the payment, and then you have to put this proof of payment in the original on the back of that call for payment and deliver it to the court. And it's a disgrace, it's a medieval century, it's a shame the courts are still doing business like that today! In short, I want to say that a lot of things have to be done by the courts themselves after they actually get a significantly better condition and a significantly better situation to do so. And I hope that this archaic way of proving that you paid the court fee, that it will really change immediately. And this has to be the case - it's so simple that the court can't get information that some payment was paid by this and that at the time and at the time. And that you have to put the original proof on your back and deliver it to the court! This is a shame, which is why we can imagine and see how little effort can be made to settle things like this if we want to. In short, the law that we are considering today creates additional better conditions, an additional better situation for the efficiency of the courts to be improved. I hope that the courts will make the most of these better conditions and that these better conditions will actually be used more effectively than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The debaters who were previously announced received the floor. The text will also be obtained by the bill-maker or on behalf of the bill-maker by the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Since I've been summoned, maybe I can explain something else. If you'll excuse me, let's have a final discussion on proving the payment of court fees. It is true that the law in force, or the Law on Court Fees still in force, provides that it is indeed necessary to prove the payment of court fees. However, I would only like to inform you that the Minister of Justice has changed the court order on the basis of the old law, where it is now - this change was this year and now the parties no longer need to propose original evidence, but a copy of the evidence is sufficient and then the court checks in an informed form by accessing the public revenue administration to pay the court fee. The fact is also that, if you allow it, this would explain that with the new law on judicial fees that you have adopted this year, which will start to apply on 1 October this year, but this is, of course, completely eliminated - any proposal for proof, but the customer only indicates the payment of the court fee and then the court will only verify it in an informative form. Thus, a friendly measure under the removal of administrative barriers has already been proposed for the parties. As far as the statistical report on judicial backlogs is concerned, it is said that those cases have been pending in the courts for an unreasonable period of time. I am also happy to tell you the absolute numbers from the statistics. In the case only, the higher courts, which were most effective, had 6,242 judicial lags in 2004 and only 1.898 in 2007. So this is a 69.6% reduction, which everyone can calculate for themselves. It is true that the least efficient in the district courts have been, but unfortunately, the largest district courts in the process of overcoming judicial backlogs are not yet in place. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I won't give you the replica, but I'll open another round if you want to discuss it. In view of the fact that all the debaters who wanted to speak were also speaking, and we still have some time left to discuss, I ask if anyone would like to speak on the basis of Article 71. I'm opening the procedure, please. Five minutes, First Member Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope that, in fact, the courts will act more up-to-date and follow the instructions and the order of justice prescribed by the Minister, and that, even when the party proves its payment, they will take this into account. But unfortunately, they still don't take that into account today. I was talking about a specific case because I just happened to have a case just like that in these days. I got some inheritance, because it doesn't matter, I wouldn't brag about it, but I had to pay for a lawsuit. And I paid the court fee the way I described the case earlier. In my instructions, I received instructions on how to prove this payment. And today I will confirm this if the time, if I can jump in today's debate to the court, also this original certificate, stamped on the back, will be submitted to the court. So the court is asking for an original certificate. And there shouldn't be a copy. If you pay something, if this bill is equipped properly, this information technology must allow the person who receives the money to know exactly when he receives the money and from whom he receives the money. Clearly, these instructions of the minister have not been respected in many ways yet, so I volunteered here for my word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! How pleased our citizens and citizens are with the courts can best tell them. We can discuss here on the basis of our experience, but I think that the experiences that people have are the ones that we have to listen to, of course. If I speak from the cases I have been able to meet in the last three years in the sent offices, I can say that more than 90% of the people who have come to the office have had problems with the courts. These problems are thus at their verdicts, but I do not want to discuss this on my own, because we know that everyone has their own views on this, but very many complaints were about efficiency, the willingness of the courts or individual judges to deal with the case objectively and of course also after efficiency. I can say that in these times, I have been given a special court in the New City or in that environment, I could make a list of judges, judges who have themselves been regarded by people as successful, objective, as willing to go about their work as professionally as possible. And here he no doubt holds that the judge is different from the judge, that there are differences and there is no way to cover his eyes. It is true that the judiciary is independent of the Constitution and, of course, it is. This does not mean, however, that now those who decide on these matters cannot, and this is only the legislative branch of the authorities, by systematic approaches, try to ensure both the conditions and the criteria that the judiciary in Slovenia actually works completely independently. And not only does the judge have to work here, but the whole system actually has to work to be effective. And it is this law that we are considering today that will contribute to this. And to be blinded or here in the debates is able to see that everything that has been adopted or changed in this mandate in the field of legislation, that it has come wrong, that it does not contribute to efficiency or to a more efficient judiciary, is simply not true. It is also now recalled that this Lukenda programme, which gives results, is a spontaneous phenomenon that has nothing to do with the measures that this government or this ministry has contributed, I simply do not accept and do not. Not only do many cases of individual judgments not dealt with by our court in Slovenia show that this must be taken seriously, but cases have been ill-treated when European courts actually impose on the State individual penalties. I am sure that there will be more of this in the future, so it is right that our courts become more successful, more effective, but, of course, in the interests of all those who must also seek their right in the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Secretary of State, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to respond again. As far as the court is concerned, we're going to check this statement of yours. The fact is that the Rules of Procedure have been amended has entered into force and should be applied accordingly. As far as the statistics are concerned, well, if you'll excuse me, I'm running out of time. Indeed, the least regional courts are the most effective in working and in eliminating judicial backlogs and in ensuring the right to a trial within a reasonable time. These are statistical indicators indicating that these smaller courts were very successful, but I can also say from the statistics here that there was also one of the major district courts, for example the District Court in Krška, which in 2004 had 3383 judicial backlogs, according to older cases, there were only 1002 cases last year that were considered to be a backlog. Unfortunately, there are many judicial backlogs in the largest districts, such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, not to mention the remaining ones. As far as the abolition of judicial backlogs is concerned, you have also made it possible to transfer files from one court to another less burdened courts, as mentioned above, for example, in the area of the Supreme Court in Maribor there are over 3,000 files from the District Court in Maribor, which has the largest number of pending cases or among the highest numbers, transferred to work of the remaining neighbouring District Courts, which do not deal with such a large case or with a large number of outstanding cases. And this is one of the positive measures, very positive, practical measures, which has been implemented by amending the law in this mandate here in the National Assembly. In addition, it has been possible with the previous amendment of the law to increase the mobility of judges, so that the judge can respond more flexibly, faster, more effectively if there is an unexpected absence of judges in a court, as we also need to know here that the smallest district courts, which have three, four judges, are also the most vulnerable, are allowed to move judges from one court to another, either for full-time work or to help solve judicial backlogs. It is a set of comprehensive organisational, technical and procedural legislative measures, as everything depends on itself, including on the payment of court fees, on the law on judicial fees, on the legal tariff. This is a set of measures that enable and allow, once all legislation is adopted and the whole legislation is implemented, it will allow for simpler, more efficient work by judges, judicial staff and, on the other hand, faster and more effective provision of the constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We have concluded a debate on the bill as a whole. In accordance with the agenda received, we will vote on the proposal on Thursday, 24 April. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is on the third defensive proposal for a law on the subsidisation of diet, within the framework of the regular procedure. I'd like to inform you that we have four hours at our disposal for this point. The draft law was prepared by the services of the National Assembly for consideration at the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jožet Tank, for a further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. The law on the subsidisation of the student diet is in final stages, in final treatment. In all the discussions so far, it has been found that this area needs to be regulated and that the care or care for the healthy diet of students has been insufficient and unjustifiable and needlessly neglected. The law has so far supported all Members or Members of all parliamentary groups, irrespective of the occasional criticism or even the tendency to discuss some of them, in particular from the opposition parliamentary groups, and that it supports all Members and Members of all parliamentary groups, which reinforces the fact that the law regulates very current content in the field of education and that the solutions proposed are also appropriate. It is a pity that there was not enough attention in previous mandates for the nutritional problems of secondary schoolchildren, by which many generations of secondary schoolchildren were denied the right to a regular and healthy warm meal during school. They have renounced what belongs to all employees in the public sector, employees in the private sector, workers, directors, students and others. In the current stages of consideration, the law has been amended editorially and substantively, thus finalising the basic text and improving it. However, it seems important to me that the law will be implemented on September 1st this year when the new school year begins and the applicants expect that there will be no complications in the implementation of the law, so that all the accompanying circumstances in and around schools will be resolved in the best possible way at this time, so that the students can have a good run right away. The law provides co-financing of a daily warm meal for all pupils, for all secondary students on the basis of status, without additional certificates or proof of social status. So in a similar way as we have already regulated student diet or some other matters in the field of education. The law also makes an important contribution to the families of schooling children, students. It brings about €450 of the annual student grant, of course, in case the student attends school regularly. This subsidy is even more important for those families that at the same time have multiple pupils in the education process. I think that this is a good or significant contribution from the country in the area of family policy and also in the area of ensuring the conditions for quality education. On behalf of the applicants, I would like to end by thanking you for all the support I have so far, for all the initiatives, for improving the text of the law and also for the support expected at the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zares will present the position of Ambassador Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u49	Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry and a nice greeting to you too, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's look first at the beginning of the paradox. Let's go back to the past. Adoption of the budget in 2005, 2006, 2007 and the budget for 2008 and 2009. In other words, there have been amendments on the table that have raised the opposition's subsidy for the nutrition of schoolchildren. They were rejected every time, including by Members who today bring to the table a final version of the law on the subsidisation of the student diet. And by the government, of course. And it wasn't the sums that this election cake brought to the table today. This historical memory compels us into a very meaningful question. Why is it that in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 the government, including the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, is gradually talking about a gradual increase in money for food, why did it reject it then? And why is he giving him a Bianca menu today? Of course, the only logical answer is that the elections were far off at the time. Indeed, citizens, voters and voters will not be disappointed by this law, as they will receive more than they were originally promised when free nutrition was not announced until 2010. Now the student diet will be free in a few months. However, in order to achieve this clearly very popular impression of yours, it does not matter if the rules applicable to the adoption of all other laws are walked. These rules state that it is not possible to adopt a law without the financial consequences guaranteed. And she doesn't have any. All right, you'll say, it's a rebalancing. But we don't see the balance yet. This law has no financial implications provided for this year, nor for the following year. And let me remind you that the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukati, recently rejected the opposition law because he lacked three words in his explanation, saying that the law had no other consequences. Of course, it is clear that these deficient words were a good alibi, and then another law entered into force. But since it is not just this law, it is a number of laws that have been thrown out of the procedure or have not entered into the procedure at all, because these consequences have not been mentioned or are used as an excuse for not being eligible by law. In short, we could say that a warm meal is a positive result or a collateral plus an election year. And there's no loneliness in this marriage. Here are, for example, the vines you brought in without asking whether they comply with the European Union's recommendations and rules or criteria. There's another 600 million dollars worth of damage for the Second World War in particular, without the state having the money for it. Here are free kindergartens for some without the municipalities having the conditions for increased enrolment of children and so on. So what am I talking about? I am talking about that the discussions you are having - I recall the debate of my colleague, Rudi Veršnik, that you will not disappoint the electorate and that you will not leave such a dissipation as had been left by previous governments - are not correct. Why? Because in 2004, there was also a strong measure of self-restraint or agreement to freeze the adoption of laws that would have major financial implications. And this deal, absolutely nothing like an agreement for the electorate, this arrangement meant a derogation from the division, maybe candy or something. It was adopted in the light of inflation and, of course, in the light of integration into the euro area. It also considers, in the light of the fact that the real capacities of the State are limited. Right, no doubt it is right for schoolchildren to have a warm meal. In fact, no one can oppose this. We all agree with that. However, according to the state's real capabilities, the rational master would say that they should come to start or gradually to a free hot meal first those who do not have enough money for it, not those who throw bread in the garbage. A rational housewife would also say that she would first look at the storage room and the family wallet and then decide to buy in the store. There are two different concepts in relation to priority, as well as in relation to the way to achieve the desired measures. On one occasion, the philosophy advocated that the wishes were served gradually, rationally, gradually increasing aid and asserting rights, not saying ratings, not at all, but also scattered, proportionately filling priorities, but not saying that we were doing discrimination. You say at this point, no, we're not giving asbestos to patients, I'm not talking about ratings, rights, and we're helping rich parents of students with a hot meal. As I say, I am reminding you of the unequal and unfair approach to all rights that comes in the context of thinking when this law is introduced. Today, your thinking is different. What's right, maybe we can't answer this moment, and maybe we can't even know this moment at all. What's right is the future will answer that question. It won't answer until tomorrow when all the bills are on the table when all the bills are posted. The warm meal offered by the biggest opposition party at first seemed to be cold because it was ordered only for 2010 and will only be promised and reachable in a few years. Today this meal is warm and freshly baked. Nice, but I warn you, Mr Tanko, you "screw", I have already spoken in previous presentations of our views that consistency is not here. But this time you bring a law that is not amended to other laws, because we are guaranteed financial consequences in the budget. It is not just the financial consequences that will appear in the form of the payment of subsidies for a hot meal. It is also for those calculations that arise as a result of the employment of new or additional staff to ensure this in schools. This account doesn't come from the same account, it comes from other accounts. We hope that this meal will certainly be worth stressing, also healthy, and that schools will not be confused when they solve spatial problems for kitchens, dining rooms and, above all, cooks and cooks, for whom we do not know whether they are being provided with funds in the budget for their salaries, which do not come from these items that we are talking about today. We also hope that, within a few months before the start of the school year, all issues that are also identified in an organisational sense, including the provision of adequate time for holidays, including the provision of such orders, which will allow for healthy nutrition. As we say, it is difficult to oppose such good will. At the same time, we note that in the exercise of this good will, which is a sign of elections, you ignore the rules of the game that apply in the National Assembly and are not equal [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you very much. However, colleague Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you for your words, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! DeSUS Members certainly support the legal regulation of the student diet subsidy system, which represents an important, appropriate and effective way of raising and setting conditions for the development, health and thus for the education of high school students, particularly in the event of observed eating disorders or unhealthy eating and unhealthy lifestyles of young people. More and more youths, including students and students, are becoming increasingly burdened with both school and extracurricular activities, so they are spending more time at home each day, which means that they need to find their own food, as they know and know. In addition, secondary schools usually do not have adequate facilities to provide food for students and there are no other suitable offers for students. The field of student nutrition subsidies is now regulated only by the Regulation. We estimate that it is more appropriate to regulate this area with legal provisions and therefore we are also signatories to this proposal. In recent years, the student diet subsidy system itself has proved to be extremely useful in helping students, as they are also provided with a more healthy diet besides the social component than they could otherwise afford. We estimate that this is exactly the kind of positive effect that this bill will have on high school students. Members of the DeSUS therefore fully support the amended proposal for a law on the subsidisation of the student diet.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Too many decisions are taken in this National Assembly, and too many times are considered to be a signatory under any proposal. Surely, however, we can safely claim that this law, although its implementation is moving forward next year - it is corrected, was even worse written in the draft than a gift in the coming decade - is welcome. And given that students already have a well - arranged diet, surely students also need such a subsidy. And it is only right that this law is confirmed. However, this government and the former government should also take into account some other proposals, other initiatives and so on, which were also well-intentioned. I do not know why this government is so kind, so kind, especially to those who have electoral rights during the electoral year. Just because this issue of nutrition in primary, secondary and also higher schools is unconsistently dealt with, because certain questions are left open, we have also submitted to the National Assembly - we have called on the Government earlier, but the government did not know how to answer, only on 25 March we received an answer, but the government was invited already on 6 February - a law regulating whole nutrition in primary schools and kindergartens. We will see if the mandate of this government, this Parliament, will be able to achieve so much discretion, so much principle and principle, that you will also confirm this as we will confirm this law today. I think that parents in primary schools are faced with some shameful fact that they have to apply for a basic school meal subsidy and that the primary school Council should decide if some parents are poor enough or not. And that's the only fact that calls for you to leave open questions. While we are adopting this law in such an easy way, we are also correcting it for next year and giving almost 50 million to realize it, you will probably find an excuse that there will be no money for primary schools. I'm afraid so. If you do this, then you have made one of the biggest mistakes in your four-year reign. Although primary school students do not have the right to vote, a number of families are waiting for this to be resolved. Of course, the Secretary of State can answer today or tomorrow, yes, because primary schools already have this. Do you know what they wrote in my answer? To pay the chef. But the chef's on the payroll, and the state's paying for it. Shame. I think that receiving cash assistance is a key criterion for social status in the family, the height of a child's allowance per child can also be a criterion, and can in fact be a long-standing social problem in the family. However, we think in the Slovenian National Party, not that we think, we are convinced that a country which is considered to be a successful country, which has a budgetary surplus, which speaks of being on its way to the best, because this was also provided by the Prime Minister when we heard him give his results, that this country deserves to fully settle the subsidy in education. No matter what level of education we're talking about. Remember when we will consider that on 21 March we have also introduced this law on food subsidies in primary schools into the procedure of the National Assembly and thus filled this gap. This is a gap that calls itself by system regulation. If you reject this law in the future when it comes to deciding on this law, then you have made a catastrophic mistake. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly support the Law on Student Nutrition Subsidisation and we look forward to the same support in our law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, as many as you are in the National Assembly! The principles and principles, unfortunately, are not the virtues of this House. I'm saying, I'm sorry. They're not the virtues of this government coalition. And at the beginning, I'm going to touch a very interesting one, in my opinion, a complication that can arise if things are not completed within the framework of the law. We heard about this yesterday by government representatives under the Penal Code, when the Lipa Group drew attention to an open article and tabled an amendment that would add to the so-called general useful work as well as a new criminal sanction within the framework of a sub-legislative act. We would lay down rules, lay down content, even lay down control over the implementation of these works. But yesterday the government said no, very loud were representatives of the government coalition. No, it's not a matter of a submarital act. Today, we have before us a law whose content is largely based on a sub-law that we do not know to this day. In particular, see Article 4 of the Law on the way in which the student diet is subsidised suggests that the Minister responsible for education shall issue a sub-law setting out in more detail the method and procedure for the implementation of the subsidised student diet: the way in which the subsidy is charged and paid, including keeping records, reporting and supervision of the work of operators and providers of the subsidised diet. The entire content of this law, what is important, is the proper way of implementing a law, is based on a sub-legislative act that may have been drafted by the Ministry of Education by September 2008 when the law is to enter into force. But yesterday you said no, such a thing is not feasible, today is such an emergency. Yes, because it is a law put into the parliamentary procedure by the government coalition. In spite of this inadequacy of this House, in the Lipa Group we believe that the law on the subsidisation of the student diet is a step in the right direction. The proposal makes it possible to improve the functioning of the student diet system so far. I said "improvable improvement," because the content, hand to heart, is still unknown today. When students or their organisation carried out a survey in the course of the Hungry Healthy Project last year in Slovenia’s secondary schools according to the satisfaction of students with a student’s diet, an analysis of the questionnaires received showed that students were not most satisfied with the student’s diet. As many as 58% of the diocese's communities considered their eating facilities inappropriate. 62% of students were not satisfied with school nutrition. It is also worrying that more than half of the students buy meals in nearby shops and restaurants, although 48% of schools offer a cold and warm meal. Everything's fine and fine. We've taken a step closer, but we still don't solve these dilemmas that come from the survey. We still impose or allow schools to manage their own premises. What kind of space, how, the government didn't offer any answers. I will say that we certainly welcome the government's willingness to arrange food in some relatively similar way as it is arranged for students, at least as regards the amount of the warm meal subsidy for each working day. However, respectable colleagues and colleagues, we point to what I have pointed out at the outset, and it is imperative that the premises dedicated to the student lunches be regulated and improved before the law comes into effect and that the open question raised in Article 4 be answered, and this is not the only article referring to the sub-legislative act. The law is certainly positive. I must say that we do not burden ourselves with the question of financial consequences in the Lipa Group. €43 million must not be a problem for the country, the Republic of Slovenia. There can be no problem when we find tons of money to buy military equipment when we find even 600 million euros to pay for the war damage of World War II. €43 million must not be a problem for the Republic of Slovenia and it must not be the sum of money that could be a problem, because we are talking about children, about solving their food problems in secondary schools. However, I am concerned about double-doing or double-doing of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I am afraid that we will also witness this on Friday when we consider or talk about a new change in the coordination of maintenance. Two times a year, according to the proposal of the Lipa Group, maintenance is expected to be valorised. This is a minimum cost for the country, in fact no cost, since the maintenance is not ad valoremised from the financial resources under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but by the debtors of the payment of maintenance. However, on the working body of the Taist Government, which literally disperses in certain areas through financial means, with money, has highlighted the problem that irreparable consequences may arise for the country of the Republic of Slovenia, as the annual cost of the guarantee and maintenance fund at an annual level of EUR 4,500 can be incurred as a result of the non-payment of maintenance. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The EUR 4,500 may have irreparable consequences for the country of the Republic of Slovenia. We're talking 43 million euros today. Everything's fine and fine. The government has decided, just before the elections, to give the students what I say belongs to them and is right, but, on the other hand, think again about where they should be, respected colleagues and colleagues, when you decide on Friday what are the irreparable consequences for the Republic of Slovenia. In the Lipa Group, we will confirm the proposal for a law on the subsidisation of the student diet, because we estimate that it is, as already said, a step in the right direction, but in the first place it is a positive law. At least we hope that he will achieve a goal that I think is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u57	Good-bye, everybody! This time, in the Third Review Assembly, we meet with a proposal for a law on the subsidisation of the student diet. In our parliamentary group, we have been working for years to regulate this area and to provide subsidised diatrical nutrition for Slovenian students and students. We were aware of this, and data and analysis also showed that students are eating irregularly, that their diet is not the best, that they do not pay too much attention, which affects their eating habits, and also their health. The change itself, when a primary student crosses a high school door that is usually far from his home, is great for a young person. In primary school, which is compulsory for all, many things are organised and otherwise arranged, while in high school certain things are left to young people who are already more independent. So they are free to decide whether to have lunch or not if the school will offer it. Often it is more interesting than a warm lunch near McDonald's, a store or a place that is not only a place where they can get something to eat, but also a place to hang out. But it is also a youthful period of time that we acquire habits that accompany us all our lives. Therefore, it seems important that we take a step toward a young person during this period and offer him what he may not have decided because he finds it too expensive because it is not modern. Studies show that a young person who is not eating properly and regularly is tired cannot concentrate, is not following a lesson and is not as active as he could be. Therefore, in our view, the law on subsidising student diet is a step in the right direction. It is a pity that no coalition has ever proposed a law that regulates the diet of students, even though many of us or you are talking about how important it is to create important conditions for the development of young people, to promote their creativity, to discover talents, to enable them to make progress and personal development an individual. The fact that marriage is urgently needed proves that there has been a third treatment without major problems. There have been some concerns about the conditions for the implementation of the law, whether secondary schools have adequate premises for the preparation and distribution of hot meals and whether they have suitable premises for students, dining rooms. It turns out that schools are not as poorly equipped as they have often heard and that some have already had kitchens and dining rooms, so that some of the efforts of school management and investment interventions will create the conditions for the law to be brought to life as soon as possible. There have also been concerns about the resources to be provided for the implementation of the law. We often say that there are 94,300 Slovenian students and students in the youth world, so there should be no question of how to provide them with the necessary means to eat more healthyly. Finally, we are committed to action by documents that have already been adopted, some in this reference to Parliament, such as the 2005 Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme. Research, analysis and guidance have also been developed by various institutions, notably the Institute for Health Protection, which has developed guidelines for healthy nutrition in educational institutions and a document on the development of approaches to promote healthy nutrition and movement in secondary schools and the healthy lifestyle of secondary schools. There is too much concern that the law does not govern everything and there will be many things regulated by a law that we do not yet know what it will be and what it will determine. Also in the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, things are similarly regulated, i.e. they are regulated by a sub-law. Article 4 makes it clear that the Minister will issue a sub-legislative act detailing the method and procedure for the implementation of the student diet, the way in which the subsidy is charged and paid, the keeping of records and reporting, and the supervision of the work of the operators and providers of the subsidised student diet. At least it would be unusual if the law also contained all those provisions that speak of how the payment and payment of subsidies would take place, for example, which day of the month the Ministry would allocate funds to the school or something like that. In order to provide a daily meal, the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Sport, has already prepared guidelines for healthy nutrition in educational institutions in November 2005, which serve as a basis for food planning and preparation of healthy and balanced meals in Slovenian kindergartens and schools. We believe that it is high time, at least in part, to regulate the nutrition of secondary schools and we are pleased that in all the votes voted so far, the majority of Members have supported the bill. Even those who have expressed their concerns and are concerned about how it will be implemented. We will be happy to vote in favour of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In other words, we will be happy to vote for young people and hope that colleagues and colleagues who in the past have not dedicated their vote to a similar law will do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members. When I listen to the third presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, it is not possible to avoid the feeling that some want to create the impression that there has been no subsidisation of the student diet in Slovenia so far. The subsidisation was regulated by the rules and took into account the social status of pupils and apprentices, and it cannot be denied that opposition Members and Members of Parliament have worked with the proposal of amendments to the budget resources to subsidise the student and apprenticeship. The fact that this effort has always been rejected and overlooked has also been highlighted several times. It cannot be denied that the Social Democrats have so far given attention to food regulation in secondary schools. This is also demonstrated by the parliamentary issues we have tried to obtain from the Government the extent to which food is organised in secondary education. And let it be said, once again, that in his reply, the Minister for Education and Sport has not even indicated the possibility that the Government is planning to introduce a subsidised hot meal for all pupils and apprentices. But that's what happened. It has happened, although there is no such thing in the coalition contract. And although such a purpose cannot be seen in the handbook already cited, issued by the Ministry of Health in November 2005, which contains guidelines for healthy nutrition for children and adolescents. While the resolution on the national food policy programme justifies a healthy diet as the basis for a healthy life for which each individual should be responsible. Social Democrats, however, believe that the state must create the conditions for each individual to take adequate care of his or her health. It appears that the Government has taken this seriously and has allowed the law of Members and Members to be adopted, although it has been in some trouble and has therefore not been able to support the amendment on the home labour body when the time of implementation of this law was changed from 2010 to 1.9.2008, as there is currently no funding in the budget for the subsidised diocese diet. Let me wake up some important developments in the adoption of this law. The bill proposes that the subsidy amount should be 2 euros and 35 cents. The government considered that the subsidy amount should be equal to the student voucher, it is said, 2 euros and 43 cents. The law now introduces 2 euros and 42 cents. Three different opportunities, three different amounts. This, of course, also affects the final calculation of the necessary resources, probably the number of participants and all that. These are mere trifling details, which have so far reinforced the evidence that the amounts in the bill are not exactly mentioned, I am talking about the financial consequences. That's one thing. Second thing. The law also stipulates in Article 2 who will be responsible for the composition, scope and quality of the daily warm meal. It is also expected that special supervision will be needed. This is defined in Article 11, which states that supervision of the efficient use of funds will be carried out by the Ministry and the competent supervisory authorities and, in the case of breaches of contractual obligations, by the secondary school. This, you say, very well prepared law does not specify which ministry will supervise whether it will be the Ministry of Health or whether it will be the Ministry of Education and Sport, because the health regulations and all that are linked to the implementation of the food supply are the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and its inspection services. The Regulation, which will specify some details, will be ready within 60 days, you say. But article 11a tells us right now what the fines are going to be for all those who will not allow this law to be implemented in due time, which starts to be implemented 1.9.2008. And at the second reading, there was great confidence in the ability of the teacher’s staff, who would already be able to prepare by 1.9.2008 everything necessary to enable students and apprentices to enjoy a warm meal in the circumstances that we expect them to be assured that a student will be able to enjoy a warm meal in a cultural and hygienic environment. It may also not be clear that there is still a case in Article 10 that has lost all meaning by amending Article 7. When the student’s social status is released as a criterion whereby an individual may exercise the right to a subsidised meal, I think he no longer has to file evidence of the status referred to in the second sentence of Article 7(1), which is simply no longer available. I've been second-guessing this case. It would be good for the preparers to consider that too. But now this certificate of social status remains, we hear a lot about removing bureaucratic barriers, but to ask for a certificate for something you don't have to give it to, but there's more than just a bureaucratic obstacle. But in this case only others will have to take responsibility for it. Of course, I was interested in the fact that the Social Democrats like to see how things are going to be, what can be done, what can be read in so many cited manuals, which are based on the guidelines and for which it is written in the preface, and signed a preface by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education and Sport, that this manual was prepared by experts from the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia with fellow workers on the basis of international standards and standards, and prepared food recommendations for the healthy nutrition of children and adolescents, who will serve as a tool for planning and preparing healthy and balanced meals of educational institutions in Slovenia. Here it is possible to read on page 31, what menu should be for the upper classes of primary school and high school students. It says that there are no special restrictions in this age group in the composition of the menu, except for those considered to be balanced and healthy diets. However, it is said that young people should also be treated in the same way, so in paragraph 3, you will find a guide on how to make fried food more healthy than in the usual quartz. But interestingly, for example, pizza is also written here as the recommended food. If we continued to follow the manual, we would find on page 36 what is written on the food culture, which says that for every meal organised, it is necessary to ensure the right time for children and adolescents not to rush to eat, and an environment that promotes a positive attitude towards food. I will spare you from reading the recommendations further, but I will draw attention to what we are reminding the Social Democrats. Approximately 30% of schools have only provided food distribution facilities. 17 schools also have adequate capacity to prepare hot meals. How, then, will we provide these recommendations, which we are talking about in high school, and I have not yet read them all below? Those Members and Members who may be members of the world of some secondary school will be able to say what difficulties the secondary schools will actually face, which will have to ensure the implementation of this law on the 1.9th. A fine that's foreseen if they don't do it, but I've been talking about it. At a high school in Maribor, which will be organized for the renovation of premises in three locations, this will ensure, believe me, an extraordinary effort. A warning was also received that the possibility of providing a warm meal in a student home was not exploited. Here in Article 3, a student’s home is included only as a service that can prepare a warm meal, but it is not considered that a student can benefit from the right to a subsidised hot meal in a student’s home. These are just some of the comments that I would like to point out on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats that this law has undoubtedly been promoted by the election to 21 September 2008, which is why some of the proposals are inconceivable. Therefore, Article 14 joined the amendment to each article on the parent’s working body because it was quickly prepared. The gaps remain, but it is true that the secondary school diet has so far been the worst regulated in the context of nutrition, so that we do not oppose the law, but if the willingness to regulate the secondary school diet is sincere, then such a law could be adopted from the 2005 to April 2008 resolution, but better prepared, of course, to adopt substantially earlier. This is a comment that the Social Democrats do not wish to remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all present! At the LDS, we are very pleased that those who have so far proposed our initiatives to raise money for the education of young people, the initiatives that we have proposed each year as amendments to the budget or the budget rebalancing, and supported by the whole opposition - that you have now come up with a proposal for a law and in this way also indirectly supported these initiatives. More than that, because it is supported by significantly higher resources, we have proposed at least half a million euros in increase each year. We can see that there is probably no one in this National Assembly who would oppose the subsidized diet of students and all. [[The ad in the hall.]] Maybe you've heard they don't support in this form. We wonder, too, whether the form is really the most appropriate, whether these resources will really be used best. Will all the students really get what they can get for this money that we now use under this law? But once again, surely no one is opposed to the regulation of nutrition, and even more so, as Slovenia is on its way to a knowledge society. Nor does anyone object to any investment, but I stress that any rational, useful and such investment, which has a good return on education, is devoted to education, because we must be aware that every investment, any beneficial investment in knowledge, is far away, the most eloquent investment later on. Let's let this law be one of the pre-election laws. Let us leave the impressions that have explicitly demonstrated how favored this law is, since it was only in 2010 at the initial stage, and then the opposition's observations were reached that it would be implemented already this year. Let us remember that no lunch is free, and that there is still no budget balance to see where this money will be taken. Why am I exposing this? So much money, we've already heard, in principle, there can't be a problem. There can't be a problem for every capable government. Even more so, since only the next government will face this problem, this should not be a problem. But I'm interested in the rebalancing, and I'm interested in where this money is going to be taken from, from a certain fear -- because I wish it wasn't going to be taken to schools. So there won't be a day from the same bag from one drawer to the other. That the balance of the budget should not be made so that schools can be taken away and re-schooled for food, that is, for what we have already heard, that it is certainly a pre-election Santa. Of course, in the LDS Club, where we have always given knowledge far the greatest importance, we want similar thinking to that of the law on basic development programmes in higher education, which foresees three times less money than it is here, but it is an explicit law that is development-oriented, is a law that leads us to a knowledge society. And this marriage, by the way, is not social. But that law is a developmental one-third of the money, and we want support there as well. We want to be like this law, which no one explicitly opposes, that you will not oppose. There was also a lot about infrastructure in schools. Of course, you appeal to the ingenuity of the students. I'm not afraid that schoolchildren would find that they wouldn't organize food for the students in such a way that they wouldn't stay hungry. That this law will not have the opposite effects, it may also happen that someone, because it has been said, should also reduce the "spraying", that is, the lack of instruction so that someone, because he will stay outside the school facility, will remain for as long as an hour and will be missing. I'm not afraid of it either. I trust the ingenuity of the schoolchildren. And I'm surprised why you're betting on this here, trusting teachers and schoolchildren. In the case of the two laws in the past, you have reduced their importance and representation in the sacred schools, where you could use your ingenuity to get to know the problem to the best of your ability to create and help make sure that this school diet is truly organized to make the most of this money for young people. Therefore, if I conclude, there is absolutely no dispute in the subsidisation of food, not at all. Also, money, we said, shouldn't be a problem. Let us also forget the dual morals of these governments, these governments, which forget that its task is to serve citizens and citizens and Slovenia professionally, so that it will be best for everyone, but increasingly behaves as Santa Claus. We all love that when he brings gifts, but the new year is over. If we forget all of this, as we said in the introduction, we can conclude that once again at the LDS House of Members that you have rejected our amendments, you have now come with this law, which will benefit our education, which is the law that will help this. And once again, let's not forget that this is a pre-election law, the main thing that our young people will get something better because of this, but, of course, once again, I would point out that you are really expected to do the same, even in all other areas, even in all other laws that are development-oriented and that will make a substantial contribution to our education, that our education will be more effective, and that the money that society spends on education will be really far-reaching best investment, investment in knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. Well greeted all present, including the young on the balcony. We support the law on the subsidisation of the student diet in Novi Slovenije, as this will enable all students to have a regular warm meal, regardless of social status. The high school period is a time when students need the most to grow and develop a regular diet, a balanced diet, as is the last time to train them to be aware of it. School management will have to take care of regular meals during vacations, during school and at school, and not anywhere, as has been the case since before, as we hear that some students have not been able to get food at school, even less hot meals, when we know that most children are from home during this period because of school 8-10 hours a day. And all those who today have a lot of comments from the opposition on this law, have you ever wondered if these students are hungry or have any other needs and problems other than learning problems. It is therefore very important for us, as well as for children and parents, that children have organized food, quality and regularity and that it is also financially accessible to them. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that the law is supplemented by our demands that food be organised exclusively in schools and during schooling and that it is supervised. Students cannot leave school premises during the day and eat in inn, restaurants. Nor is it acceptable for us to stay in them this afternoon instead of going home as soon as possible. That would be far from the education and purpose of the law. We are also counting on the fact that the meals will not be auctioned on this account because they will be financed, or that the quality will deteriorate so that no one else will be able to attach their ticket. These funds are exclusively for students and dots. The law clearly states that students are entitled to a warm meal every day of school. We are confident that this move has done us a great deal for all families who have children in vocational secondary schools. We will relieve parents financially, at the same time allow students at all schools to have organized meals during school, not all schools, not all students, so far. In the opinion of New Slovenia, this law represents an important step towards the education of young people, towards healthier, more accessible, and especially to the regular and financially favourable nutrition of secondary schools. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Also in the Slovenian People's Party, we have always stressed that it is right to grant students the right to one subsidised meal or lunch per day and to compare them with students in this regard. The bill is very welcome and brings our students conditions for better living and especially for healthy development. At today’s rapid pace of life, this is not easy, and most students are left to themselves and their ingenuity. Also about food, which is unfortunately too fast and therefore very unhealthy. Years ago a study was carried out, which the applicant also mentions in the draft law. And despite the fact that she has focused only on a certain sample of students, she is quite visual about the eating habits of Slovenian students. The results were predictable, the Slovenian student was fed irregularly, unhealthyly and therefore unquality. Much has been said about the marriage. We are confident that this law will properly organise the field of student nutrition, but we must not forget that it would be good in the near future to regulate primary school nutrition in a similar way and to compare them with students and students in terms of subsidisation. It is good that in the law the diet is defined as a warm daily meal whose composition, size and quality are determined by the Minister of Education and Sport, since it is possible to derogate from the definition of a meal much more difficult. The law also states that the secondary school, which has the appropriate space and conditions for the preparation of a daily hot meal, can ensure the preparation of these meals itself and that it is possible for it to prepare meals for other public secondary schools. We agree with the findings that, wherever possible, contrary to student diet, it is necessary to provide a student with a warm meal within or around the school. We therefore have before us a law that improves the state of nutrition of the secondary school population and can have a significant impact on their smooth development and learning. Certain things will probably prove to be flawed in practice, but we believe that with the amendments we have completed the bill in the direction of better regulation. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support and welcome the proposal for a law on the subsidisation of the student diet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will also support the proposal of the law in today's third reading. Why? Since the law is good, it is very important because it systematically and specifically regulates and solves the unregulated situation in the field of nutrition of secondary schools. And I'm surprised there wasn't so much understanding, will or anything else in the former ruling coalition that this area in high school was also regulated by the system. The opposition continues to challenge this law and seeks greater or lesser problems, black-sightedness, fear and more, food will be inconvenient, there are no conditions for food sharing, there will be no health standards, why the law was not adopted in 2005, there will be a burden on school management, there will be no budgetary resources and so on, as has been heard today. Above all, the criticism is that this is a pre-election balloon, which represents a huge balloon for me, weighing 43 million euros a year. And such and similar balloons in this four-year term were quite something, from the initial amendment of pension legislation in 2005, where a great injustice to pensioners began to be brought into line with the growth of salaries, the abolition of unnecessary stickers, the increase in children's allowance, various social transfers, the protection allowance, the reduction of tax bases, free kindergartens for the second and next child, to the free diet of students. These are all balloons, and if they were evaluated, this would be hundreds of millions of euros, which immediately have direct positive financial effects on individual groups of citizens, from young to older. And so is this bill tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Jozet Tank. The proposal, which the Ministry and the Government have consistently supported because it is urgently needed under the common coalition belief, has also ensured the Government to prepare all procedures for its implementation. I am surprised that the opposition opposes this law, although I expect it to press the "yes" button when voting, otherwise with its teeth pressed. I am surprised at the fact that, in the debates, the distinguished colleague, Mrs Majda Potrat, emphasises that social democracy always advocates the necessity of food regulation for all ages of schoolchildren, and in the same breath, it seeks various problems in the application of this law. And I ask, "Why didn't you do this in your previous term when you had authority?" Why did you not support a similar proposal made by the opposition with the first-signed Jozet Tank? If we supported and accepted this, it would have been settled in 2003 and 2004 and not in 2008. Why didn't you, I ask? Because the former government and the coalition did not create preconditions for such a law and all those already mentioned in the introductions. This government, this coalition, has created these conditions with a well-run country, which is a result of high economic growth, which has a positive financial impact on budgetary revenues, which can also cover these so-called pre-election balloons, you say. And I say, all the legal changes and solutions that go immediately to the welfare of citizens and citizens, young and old. From this point of view, I am looking at and supporting the proposal for a law that came only in turn, unfortunately, in 2008. Therefore, if ever, I think that this law should unite and support itself with more optimism and good purpose, because the law has a very clear fundamental objective: to regulate nutrition for secondary schoolchildren as well. Everything else is subordinated to this objective, from the provision of appropriate distribution conditions, the conditions for the preparation of a daily hot meal, the public procurement of food by the provider, the organisation of teaching and rest for the distribution of these meals and more. This includes both the Ministry, the Minister and the School Management. School management will have to carry out these procedures and activities to create conditions, and the Ministry will have to carry out all other relevant procedures not to list them. Most schools will be able to do this and some schools will also require temporary improvisation by the start of the 2011 school year when the necessary conditions are to be put in place. All parents here in the National Assembly, both from the coalition and the opposition, who have had secondary schools or some that you have, or some that you will still have, know how important it is for young people to have regular, quality and healthy diets, especially during the period of growth. Regular nutrition is the basis and prerequisite for more effective and quality learning in school. From your experience, we can tell you what your concern was when you gave your high school student money for a daily meal, but you were not sure whether he went to lunch or for something else. You won't be worried about 1.9.2008 anymore. Subsidisation of €2.42 per day, which is about €50 per month, which means about €600 per year for one high school student, will be a significant savings in the family budget if two or three high school students are in the family, there will be so much more savings. In the belief that the proposal for a law is substantively good and purposeful, that it is necessary and necessary, that all necessary procedures will also be carried out urgently and in a timely manner, and that school management will be able to apply the law in practice, I will also support the proposal in this third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Yes, ma'am. Waste, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Ljublješek, you have apostrophe me, how I can think as I think and debate as I do. I'm doing it responsibly. Each government sets its priorities. And the priority of the former government was to join the European Union and ensure the possibility of entry into the euro area. This had to be subordinated to many things and it was not possible to take the populist measures that the next government would have to take. The bill that the same Member has tabled, as he has now signed, was given as a dog bomb by the opposition Member to the previous government when he knew precisely that there were no funds in the budget for the implementation of such a law. And this government and this coalition now dares to give and adopt a law for which there is no financial coverage in the budget. All those things you talked about, about the children's allowance, it's strange that you didn't mention the minimum wage and anything else, you accepted after December of this year by saying that there are no precise financial calculations about the actual effects, how this improved the standard of people belonging to the group most at risk. And the fact that the next government will have to pay for the beneficial effects of this government's extremely good policy is also clear. And Mr Ljubeljšek, I would be pleased if you could answer in the next term what you have done in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago has the word, please? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Look, now all these discussions by some opposition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u72	What do you want, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u73	I speak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u75	As a bill-maker.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u76	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u77	All of these discussions by some opposition members of the Social Democracy, really, or perhaps even from some parliamentary group are particularly painful to say that they did not support the law I proposed in the previous term. I proposed twice the law, once within the student diet, twice into a special marriage. He wasn't the same, he was similar, but they didn't support him. And it actually feels like you missed an excellent opportunity at the time to find out for yourself that the worst is in the school system, as far as nutrition is concerned, so that it can be settled. That the problem is even bigger. You knew the problem from a number of studies that have been done throughout this period. You could also have proposed a similar law in this mandate, because you have seen these problems, as it has now been introduced. Not an amendment to the budget for several million euros, but a serious law to resolve the matter systematically and comprehensively. The only problem is that it's very nice on one side to talk and troubleshoot, the problem is how to do it. And you have the will, the ability to do something concrete in this area, neither in your previous mandate nor in this mandate. And it's not about any pre-election or permissive candy, it's simply a problem that's been detected for a long time, you've been dealing with it for a long time, even in the food resolution you were able to say a lot about regulating and ensuring healthy nutrition, but you didn't take a concrete step towards regulating this area. Even when others suggested these things, you opposed him, including the former minister. And even now, when you can't actually or maybe you won't even vote against it, you're trying to show with all these interpretations that even though the matter is inevitable, but it's not nice if it's really beautiful and you have to say all those other detailed things that don't even belong. As far as the bill is concerned. The law was introduced into the procedure in accordance with all business regulations, but it is true that a number of changes have been made in the treatment of the working body. We didn't propose an ideal marriage. That's perfectly clear to me. I am pleased that there have been comments that we have been able to bring this supplement in, so that now the text is better, I also know that when the law is implemented, it will not be a problem to be added here, but I will expect that the law will be complementary and improved for the better. Not that you may suggest some solutions that will make things worse. And there's something else I'd like to say. It was very irresponsible in the previous term and it was also not serious that for one part of the population that was being educated, i.e. for the students, you allowed a status relief, that is to say, on a student's status or not, and received this status relief, and for the other part of the schooling youth in secondary schools you did not allow and allow them to receive a subsidised diet under the same conditions, on a status basis. And that's where you made it possible, and that's where you're supposed to be doing all sorts of commissions to see if there's someone in some social category or some other. I think this is a lot of duality, and I do not support such approaches. Not particularly since some other areas of education are different. For example, the Training Fund is not attached to social status, but all children, I don't know, up to the sixth grade who want it, can get textbooks in the Training Fund under the same conditions. And I suggest that to all such matters that have nothing to do with reality, which try to discredit the matter simply because of discreditation, not because of the content of avoiding it, and that we try to get the matter out of the way, as best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u79	Nice greetings to the secretary, Members of Parliament and our young visitors on the balcony! I think today is a happy day when we consider the law on diabolical nutrition. And I must say that I have nothing to do with this debate today, this richness of debate in the National Assembly, because it is right to say everything we think is one way or another. And it is also right that the public sees and hears what anyone thinks about this proposed law. Personally, I think that the law is very good, and that some people have certain concerns that to some extent they also challenge it, I really don't mind today, because I am sure that when we vote tomorrow we will unanimously support the law, because it brings such a big and important change for 94,000 Slovenian students, for a few smaller Slovenian families, so much advantage and novelty that they will remember it in the coming years. Malnutrition in secondary schools lasted too long. It took too long, and it would have been right if this matter had been settled a long time ago. How important a healthy diet is, especially how important the healthy diet of adolescents during adulthood is, we all know. I came back from the United States on Monday. By the way, we have visited Slovenians, our emigrants, and they also welcome the Slovenian Parliament, Members of the National Assembly. What did I see there? I began to see the weight of children, high - school students, or adolescents. You may think what I'm saying right now, but I'm sure it's due to the unhealthy diet that they have there in remote and sung America. And I am sure that this law, which we are now considering and will be adopted on Thursday, will also help to prevent Slovenia from going down this path of America, to watch from year to year fatter, fatter young people, which is certainly not healthy. At the beginning of my term, I visited the centre of secondary schools in Velenj, and at the time of this first interview, the word also referred to how urgent it would be to arrange a student diet in this centre of secondary schools, where there are many, many students and the management of the centre had already had plans to approach the construction of special areas both for cooking and for food distribution. I must say, when we adopt or deal with this law today, which will allow these high school students to have a free meal, my joy is truly great. Although my daughter, who is not yet well fed, leaves high school in two months and will not receive it, I must say that my joy is truly sincere and great. Because like I said, 94,000 students will be able to benefit in the coming years. In the end, let me just say this. Let the marriage be populism, pre-election, as some of you call it, and I'll be happy to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There have been several debates that would have been worth responding to or not responding to. I would point out in particular that now is really the time for the government coalition to know that it has been working with the country for four years if we can call it governance with the country. I have a better feeling that you have the view that it was given to you. A number of discussions have been held, which have spoken of the fact that the time in previous governments has been set up in previous mandates. That's right. It was possible. The reasons why something has already been mentioned did not come to this. So the reasons are quite something. It seems that he has now matured this time to settle the matter as well. But when you talk about the past, of course, you must always be aware that the past is also made up of four years of this government. Let me say in the introduction that I will support the law and that I have not objected to it in all the debates until today. There will be no further opinion that the opposition Members are opposed to this law. Of course, it is the duty of Members to point out the shortcomings of legislative matter if they know about it. That is why we are also Members here in the National Assembly to talk about proposals, to discuss them, to give initiatives for improvement and finally to accept what can be adopted. The question is why the opposition Members did not propose a similar or better law in this mandate and would be accepted by the coalition, but it is far from ridiculous and unrealistic. Tell me how many laws have been passed by the opposition in this mandate. You'll get very tired of counting, but not counting. When we talk about legislative proposals, let me just mention my case, the Law on Employees' Participation in Profit, which has been tabled twice by the Social Democrats, has been rejected twice and then passed a government law which, according to our assessment, is worse, but is not, above all, binding. In this way, the laws, not to speak of amendments, in the National Assembly, are adopted or not accepted. Nevertheless, it is right that this gap between primary and university students should be removed and an appropriate solution found. Let me say that probably most parents are not afraid to give their teens money for lunch or spend that money for lunch or something else. I think that this surveillance is probably completely unnecessary several times, but, of course, there are also cases that we will not eliminate by this law, except that we will say, we will now simply not give our teenagers anything for lunch, because they have lunch at school. And it's hard to agree that it's not a pre-election maneuver of this government coalition. Of course he's going. But nothing, this law will be passed, we will commit the following governments, the next ministries, the next parliament to implement or amend the decision, if necessary, if upgrades are needed. Of course, this year's electoral year, until the elections is three, four months away, and it is clear that 2005 was not appropriate for this law, that 2006 was not appropriate for this law, that 2007 was not appropriate for this law and that 2008 was still appropriate for this law. And that's how we got him on the bench. This, of course, raises the question of whether this will be possible in all schools this year, but of course this should not be an obstacle to the adoption of this law. If the law states that secondary schools are doing so, sooner or later these high schools will have to meet the conditions for doing so. Or it's the best solution, and I'm not sure. And also this message, which we are trying to draw up today, that the only schools that will choose the right provider will take care of a healthy diet, is probably not standing and is not the right one. It is impossible to say that all other service providers are not quality. It is impossible to say that all places outside the school are not suitable and are somehow justified as those who care about unhealthy diets. It is probably not possible to throw everyone in the same basket and it is probably already where, at least I know our cases, this diet is regulated in a way that is also acceptable from the point of view of healthy nutrition. Speaking of which, this is a pre-election manoeuvre, let me also say that in this case, the proposed bill is not a Government. The candidates are signatories from coalition parties, and I do not object. Of course you have the option, the right, you have this initiative written down in the constitution and it is possible. But if with this law you sincerely wanted, above all, not to be selective, why didn't you offer it to all Members of Parliament to sign, including to the opposition? I think [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Oh, interesting reactions, because I'd like to answer you now. [[...]] If someone does not take a decision in the previous term, it is written down forever in your own way, as you do so in all cases, not only in this. The one who disagrees with you is written off as far as you're concerned. And that's how you do it in this case. This is a purely pre-election move, and the opposite of that would convince me that you were prepared to share all your joy here today with the opposition Members, and you were not. In the end, we will vote, and the vote will show who is in favour of this proposal, and perhaps anyone will oppose it, and I will certainly support it, not as it was said, with firm teeth, as simple as the rest of the laws, I will also support it with a finger on the key that is intended for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mrs. Potrata, please. 96,275 students are in Slovenia, and it is right that we do not think so stubbornly about who proposed something, because there is too much of this arrogance in the National Assembly. Not only with this government, which is strictly implementing this, but also with previous governments, there was a view to who proposed something and who was signed under what proposal. And from this title, the possibility of good decisions being made, some right and good laws that could give citizens and citizens a better life, and this did not happen because it prevailed, as it were said, 'puffomy'. We will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian National Party. It is true, however, that this law is not the first time here that there was an attempt to put it in the procedure in 2003, but there was not enough consensus at the time. Most importantly, what I have said before is that we must be principled and principled in this matter and address this issue in its entirety. We're leaving an open lot of gaps. This is nutrition in kindergartens and primary schools. Since the Secretary of State is here, once again she has heard, it will not be harmful, it would be right for the Government to speed up the procedure as well, and to adopt the law on subsidising primary school diet, which we have submitted for admission by the Slovenian National Party. Only then can a comprehensive solution to this problem be rounded up and there will be no shadow or doubt or doubt that you have acted in a populist way. Some people read it to you. It's not my intention to tell you today. It is true that it is an environment that has the right to vote, that it is an electoral year, that, of course, you can Pilately as a Government, you can know your hands and say, "Yes, that's what the other government will solve." Because not even in the budget of this money have you dedicated, but this is not the purpose of my visions today. The law will be essentially binding and will apply to the government that will come. Whether it's left or right, whether it's black or red, it doesn't matter. It is important not to forget that you leave an open gap for those who do not have the right to vote. I would like this law to appear as soon as possible in these national constituency benches and not to embarrass the families of primary school children who today are forced to fill out the form and ask for food subsidies. Then a simple primary school world discusses whether or not the family is poor enough or whether they will receive a primary school food subsidy. Of course, that's sad. On the other hand, we see that we can say that we are wasteful in certain budget lines. When we talk about children, whom you all always claim to be our only and true wealth, we are kind of stepmotherly and we want to save something or we want to make even more positive budget balances. Indeed, €43 million is a large number if we are looking at where to take it from. However, in such a large budget, I do not think that this should present any problem. And it is right that this happens with the next school year to realize this law and start with subsidies. In this sense, all praise to the applicants, whether it be the Government now or whether they are coalition parties, is irrelevant. But it's true that we'll remind you that you have a debt. Only on 25 March did the government answer the question that we asked on 6 February, which is very flat-rate. So that some serious intentions in this law, of which we are proposing to subsidise nutrition in kindergartens and primary schools, we do not see a willingness for the Government to support this as well. If that is not the case, then it is easy to say that this marriage is really somewhat populism and that you did it just because the students have the right to vote. Once again, I call on you to bring this law into the state-level assembly procedure as soon as possible, which is respected by the Secretary of State, and that the Government, in particular the Government, has a positive view of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State! First of all, it may be the point of a fellow Friend that this is a populism move, pre-eminent and so forth, that it is a move - if we wanted to be truly good, then we would also sign to the other groups of Members. I see a half-empty hall here, not a single opposition member, but, if we subtract Mr Germić and Mr Jerič from Mr Friend. Clearly, there is no interest in really supporting such a law. I don't know why they would then sign it, but even if we know that it was those Members who had the opportunity already in their previous term of office, on 7 May 2004, I have a copy where there was every opportunity to support such a law on student nutrition subsidies, but they voted against, including the lady from the Social Democrats, who is now, unfortunately, not among us, but was very much angry with such a law before. As I mentioned earlier in the debate on the same law, I will also today support the law on the subsidisation of the student diet, especially for three reasons. First of all, it seems important that we provide all students with equal food opportunities, regardless of the social environment they come from. So far, it has only been regulated to such an extent that only those who have really been most socially disadvantaged have had food subsidies. Today, this government and the Slovenian Democratic Party make no exceptions, no distinction whatsoever, which I think is particularly important. One warm meal with this law makes it possible for all students. Secondly, why does it seem important for us to adopt this law today? Because during this period, in this particular period, it is still important for students to eat properly and regularly, especially regularly in this age group. Not to say that a healthy diet is important, that it means that there may be a certain number of meals, but I do not have in mind here, for example, seven meals, as may be practiced by one of the opposition presidents. These may already be more extreme cases, more time is needed to prepare a diet. But we have that in mind here, but we have in mind here, above all, that these students be provided with a warm meal within their school schedule, which is sometimes so crowded that these students don't even have the right time to eat. Certainly, all of us sitting here today should be interested in this issue, and above all it should be up to us to try to resolve it. Already in today's world, and here Slovenia certainly is no exception, we face various forms of eating disorders, which are also due because we do not have properly regulated nutrition, especially during this period that we are talking about today. It is said in that age period that covers the group that we want to help today by subsidising the student diet. However, here again I would like to say that it will be clear that those who accompany us will know that the Slovenian Democratic Party has already wanted to regulate this area in the previous term, but that it has not experienced the support of the former ruling coalition. The then Minister, Dr Slavko Gaber, was very opposed to the adoption of such a law, although the Slovenian Democratic Party had submitted it twice. That's why I think it's funny when opposition Members point out that we've now tabled this for the elections that are coming. We've done this twice before, and we haven't received any support. We have now done this again because we believe that this coalition is so responsible that it is aware of the importance of adopting such laws. Above all, I find it really funny that there is no argument as to why such a law is not adopted, but also to oppose something that is good for our students, and therefore for their parents, is a really interesting thing. But it is similar in some other cases, such as in the provinces, when you oppose the opposition MPs to something that people want, a similar story is found in vineyards. Citizens want to blame themselves because they will burden their home budget and are a very good solution especially for those who are very much on the road. The law on kindergartens has also been a major problem for opposition Members. You had major problems with the school fund and the scholarship fund and so on. All good solutions are some kind of problem for opposition Members. I don't understand it myself. Mr Slavinec said at the outset in his delegation's position that no one opposes this law, it is said by the law on the subsidisation of the student diet. However, I have before me, once again I will show a copy of the vote which speaks precisely of this law and I must say that it has opposed quite a number of opposition members to this law. Both the LDS and now the Members of Reale's Social Democrats and so on. Ensuring quality student nutrition should, in my opinion, be of great interest to all of us sitting here. The fact is that the problem of poor nutrition, which, of course, has different negative consequences especially during this age period, is pointed out by medical professionals, as well as by parents and students. That is why, of course, I believe it is necessary to adopt such a law. The only thing I'm sorry about is that we haven't been able to find any political consensus to do this before. I agree with one point mentioned by the opposition that this law, which will regulate the diocese's diet, may burden the budget. Yeah, he's probably gonna put a load on him. However, it will certainly reduce or mitigate the consequences of poor nutrition in at least some segments. What seems to me to be of greater importance at this point, and it is right to be aware of these issues and to be accountable to them as well. Research shows that adolescents have extremely poor eating habits, which, of course, are also linked to a lack of movement. I mentioned earlier that we, who are also in such functions, should certainly be a better example for them. All of this, too little movement, poor eating habits naturally lead to obesity, eating disorders, and so on. Perhaps to the end, this was mentioned earlier by colleague Potrata that the Ministry in the introduction had written down a list of foods that were supposed to be good for food and so on for students, that the pizza mentioned was also mentioned. I agree that this is not the best example of healthy nutrition. However, perhaps the President of the Social Democrats could be more involved in this area. We know that -- at least that's what we hear through interviews -- is well aware of what healthy nutrition is. I think I could do a lot in this area, while, if it is not possible to write a Social Democrats programme, it can do some good food programme. I will definitely support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u86	Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Let me start by saying that in Novi Slovenija we were happy to sign or my colleagues signed this bill. Of course, our programme for this mandate was slightly different. We wanted to give weight in particular to the cost of basic education, in particular the burden of families and parents for compulsory education in accordance with our Constitution, primary school. A similar law would be very appropriate and also a struggle easily feasible for primary school. Especially because we know from the financial analysis that it follows that a lot of funding is made through contributions to nutrition in primary schools paid by parents. However, each thing must be taken from a positive perspective. Well, if you weigh in the coalition as much as you weigh, you need to support the good suggestions of the one who is stronger. I think that this proposal, which is now actually opening up one process for the next mandate, will also be able to realise our wishes, which I mentioned earlier, as well. We certainly support this law and provide at least one warm meal a day for high school students. We know that high school students are in very different situations. Those who have a very close school are in a better place. Those who drive are in an extremely poor position here. In view of the fact that many have so far not been able to afford scholarships, nutrition is a relatively high cost, and the cost, or other resources, that our parents use for this purpose, is often unhealthy. In any case, the implementation of the law itself will show certain problems that we can be aware of right now. I believe that it is appropriate that a transitional period is defined in the law itself. Personally, I'd like to simplify the matter even more. However, I know that other legislation from other areas is restrictive for even greater simplification. In any case, the principals or the minister will first face a very difficult issue when he will have to draw up a sub-legislative act to define this matter more precisely than to provide logistics. Above all, I think that much attention will have to be paid to supervision, to the actual eligibility of the use of resources for the appropriate quality of food. As I mentioned earlier, in primary schools with a more accurate analysis, we can see that this is not always the case. That is why, of course, I now recommend to the Minister that he consider how food provision is done in primary schools, because in this case it is good to learn how to take action and what rules to prevent or, I will say, the unjustified use of resources for not sufficiently high quality, especially where external operators provide it, will be even more difficult to control. Because they're going to tell you to school, and the school is going to tell the data to the Ministry at the schools themselves, of course, if there's going to be a space that they're going to provide, it's going to be a kind of dividing kitchen. If I understand the law correctly, it will be necessary to set up a special space. By 2011 it will also be necessary to take care of the personnel what this entails. I do not think that this law actually falls within the scope of social laws, which I think is positive. This is a law that is actually directed towards the future of Slovenia. He's trying to give the right place to our future generations. Food and a healthy way of life are certainly the most pressing issues that are systematically highlighted in the European Union as such. Therefore, we believe that, or I can say on my own behalf, that this law is the beginning of one process, which I mentioned earlier, which may have some problems in early years also with regard to the provision of menus. We know that young people today have a huge diet, which must also be provided through this warm meal. Let me mention here only steel patients for whom food is practically five times more expensive than food for ordinary consumers. However, given that this is going well in primary schools and kindergartens, I am sure that this will be possible. Finally, of course, support for the law and the Minister's desire to be able to draw up as best a sub-law as possible. At the same time, I would like to encourage those who now hear some fears about how they will be able to meet the requirements of this law. Let things be optimistic and, in fact, let them see one positive opportunity in this. We know that many secondary schools have been under investment for years and years now, as parents have to pay for certain funds or it is desirable to pay in public secondary schools for certain funds, where so-called spatial conditions for working in secondary schools are also provided. I think that this is also one of the opportunities for the following high school mandates to be able to improve their infrastructure a little bit, and they will not be harmed if we speak very frankly. As I have already mentioned, I hope that the adoption of this law will mean the continuation of the assessment of the costs at the primary school, which is a constitutional category. We know that high school is not compulsory under the Constitution. Although, in fact, it's getting worse. In order to apply the same model in the future first at primary school then, of course, primary school costs reduction according to my assessment are not in fact necessary and represent an extraordinary burden on parents. This is an irrational amount of work volumes, textbooks and everything that I think can be handled differently professionally and saved a lot of money to invest more money in quality teacher training, but on which we know that the entire school system is standing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleague and colleague. I think it would be more productive, and it would also make sense if Parliamentarians talked a little bit more about this subject to students and students, to see if they could create a real picture of what is actually going on in this young generation of ours, which might take on the most responsible positions in our country in the future. I was very happy to have talked to many of my students. If I told you about the content, we probably wouldn't all believe it. However, I also read a number of online forums, of course students. Of course, that's black on white and let me read at least two, three. The student who introduced herself in a forum called Urska says: "Our diet is desperate. From the delicious mayonnaise, which is drawn quite out of the pans." You know what language is in online forums. There will be no fine Slovenian - 'to ketchup and greasy slices of pizza or hot cheese, and that in a cafeteria where there is no room to sit. After four years, you get so carried away that you can get away with it..." I can't say because it doesn't fit in Parliament. Believe me. And then you start wearing avocados or homemade rice because there's really nothing left for you." Well, the student who introduced himself to Luke says, "We're having lunch too. We have a menzo, but because of the futility and very expensive sandwiches we prefer to go to the next coffee shop, where it is better and less expensive." In armor, he wrote what his classmate had found in a sandwich and again he did not fit into Parliament. "The best thing would be to introduce the vouchers and give the main break to extend for an hour to at least sing in peace. We'll see what they'll remember, and by then we'll be on dry, unwholesome, unhealthy sandwiches." And the last student who introduced himself as Tito says, "At our school," I'm not going to name it; "there's not much room to eat either. It's a small canteen paid for by a stockbroker. We've asked the students for a replacement on several occasions. Unfortunately, without success. The sandwiches are worse and more expensive each year, and the salami is so thin that you can look through them. Pizza's been warming up for days. The oil flows from them. The fruit can't be won. In general, the offer is poor, both quantity and quality. We're pretty low on drivers. For example, I get up at 5:00 a.m. and come home at 4:00 p.m. According to the logic of five meals, he should eat at least two meals outside of school, if not three meals and so on." So the students about the student diet. What about us? Dear colleagues and colleagues, as secondly signed under the Proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Student Nutrition, I came from the point of view that school or that school should be a second home for students. And the smart country will make sure that the environment is as perfect as possible. Also for food, for that generation that's in the most sensitive psychological development. The question that has been raised many times in the debates on this law: Why now, why this law in the election year? Let me remind you. The law was introduced last year, December 2007. Is it electoral or pre-election? I don't think it matters. But by the end of December, and this has also led us to propose this law, the outline has already appeared. Approximation of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. It was the first time in the history of Slovenia that there was a surplus. And about the surplus we need to implement this law financially. On an annual level, I think. So much for asking why right now. Our starting point, the starting point of the New Slovenia Group, has been and we have persisted, and we have also succeeded in making organized nutrition meaningful only in secondary schools. Not outside of school, inside the yard, inside the building. This is also the first failure of the current system, the current situation, since in schools where students leave school during the main holidays, all too many violations of the school order. But without order, there's no success. He's not a student either. That's why I'm opposed to the equation. A student needs to feel a real second home at school, and in this second home at school he must also have at least one healthy meal. The highest burden of this law is on the Ministry of Finance or on money, of course also at the Ministry of Education and Sport. I myself have had great doubts as to how we will be able to do this with the budget at all, how we will be able to implement this law. I simply trust the Ministry of Finance and Minister Bajuk, who runs it. And if he was able to provide an additional EUR 30 million to increase the child allowance from this January, if he could fill the gap created by the new income law, a large amount of EUR 38 million again from this January, if he was able to reconcile pensions already early in 2005, if he knew from the last amendment of the Protection Supplement Act about EUR 10 million, then I am sure that he will know and will make so much effort and find the means to make this law really come true already in the next school year 2008/2009. So I welcome this law. I'm sure there's still more work to be done. Especially with those who will begin to implement this law. Today or tomorrow, the National Assembly will do its work. I'm sure with the unanimous support of this law. But just like my colleague Kokalj, I call on the principals and all the other structures in education to really make every effort to start the law with the next school year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! We have been talking about student diet for quite some time in this House. It is right that we talk about this, that we also have our concerns, our views and that, however, - I have already said in the last debate that this is one thing that I am very happy that someone has remembered. Even if this time may be disturbing, it is always a welcome thing for our students. For the food of the school, all those who have had the disciples, you probably know this thing, how and how our children were fed. We all know that problem was big, messy. Especially at a time when we are living, when this pace of life has become immeasurably severe, when there are fewer and fewer parents at home at lunchtime, when the worker is essentially at home all day from morning to evening, and students are virtually out of regular meals at home in many families. And this is, as a perfect legal and good traveller to this population, which during this important period also needs this kind of healthy diet. I certainly - I don't believe -someone in this House thinks otherwise. But if the only problem is the time we accept it, then forgive those who may not have done so ten years earlier. I think it's really too late. It's been a while since this thing got settled. And looking here at money, whether it's or isn't, or we have it in the budget or there will be enough, it's sad. It is sad to think that we have money for everyone else, perhaps sometimes less important life - style needs, for our children, but for this food we almost would not give it to them. Don't let that happen. I won't allow anyone here to intervene in this matter without the money for this kind of thing. This will certainly be assured by the Government, the Ministry, both in 2008 and 2009. I also believe, for all the years to come. I think the legislation is well-prepared. Of course, every law is not great. Time will tell in years, in future, whether this is the best. And those governments and those parliaments, and then they're going to fix it and coordinate it so that they can also show it from practice, from life, what's missing, what's not good, what's in fact we can fix. I think so, but there's definitely gonna be one problem that I see. Maybe who I've already warned about. Probably in all the secondary schools of 2008/2009 - I fear - this will be technically difficult to place with our Rules, our Hasapi and similar matters. I believe that the principals, as the first responsible, will also have worse holidays when this law is passed, and that they will do everything within their means, together with the Ministry, to make all these possibilities so that the excuses will not be so flattering: yes, but it is not possible. There was no time. It was a vacation, that and that. This will be a bad excuse for our students in September when they go to the new school year. And here, from the moment of the adoption of the law, those responsible for carrying out the process in accordance with our legislation in force in the field of nutrition in secondary schools must take their sleeves. All I want is for there to be as few problems as possible on this path as possible. And you know that our legislation here is extremely difficult, sharp. Sometimes even too much papal. But I hope they can do that, too. The country and the principals and, of course, then finally the users, I think the students will be pleased with all those who think well of this law, both at the head of the ministry, the government and also the Members. I think there are almost no people in this House who would object. That is why I also believe that this law will receive unanimous support in the National Assembly, that it will not be counted, but you, for it is ultimately one and the other children, one and the other. So, I just want it to be 2008/2009. I want these students to have as much as possible a rich and good-quality, warm meal as they can enjoy during their work, their learning. And that they will execute it in that spirit and in that expectation that is here today. Positive energy between Members and the ministry to go this way, to provide this segment of the population with what I regret has not happened much earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Excuse me. Hold on. [[...]] Mr. Jerovšek. You were written yes. There's been a lot of confusion and a lot of confusion. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us a law that is extremely important for the young generation, for the Slovenian future, for Slovenian development. Ensuring equal and good opportunities for education, for all young generation and for children from all Slovene families across Slovenia is an investment in the future. And this coalition, this power has so far passed quite a few such laws: the Free Kindergarten Act for another child in kindergarten. This is also the case with the Law on the Financing of Communities, which makes the money more evenly distributed. This was also the case with the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. And you, from the opposition, call these laws a pre-election balloon. Is the Lands Act a Pre-election Balloon?Oh, my God! What do you think of pre-election balloons? No, no, no. You are particularly opposed in your, intimately, opposed to this law that gives - this has been present in all of your debates, although you guarantee, because we have voted. But no, we see your faces, your grip, your teeth creaking, your opposition to future generations having good opportunities and equal opportunities. Your ideal is Sugar and the death of Slovenian geniuses and intellectuals, such as Kette, Murn, Kosovel and others then due to social trauma and social exclusion. That's your ideal. The sugar shop is still your ideal today. And because this government and this marriage are the fingerprints of this coalition. These laws are a fingerprint that is uploaded into social programs and development programmes. As a result, this law was virtually silenced in the media at the previous reading of 28.3. This is amazing how the five-hour debate here has not been reported. And that's also the answer when you say we have media control. I have to say, I was horrified when I listened on the radio yesterday. Five hours and another thing was the debate. At the same time, there was a debate on the Law on Financing Education and Education. And there, of course, the opposition had a slightly more argument that it nevertheless opposed. The report was only about a law that was only for one third of the debate that is here. This is how it is shown in Slovenian public what is good for all families. And because of this, of course, there is no argument made by a colleague from Social Democracy earlier that in the previous term they could not, you could not, when you were in power, do so. That you had higher goals. Yeah, the higher targets were car stickers that went into exactly defined pockets. Of course, couldn't you have lowered the notary tariffs back then? Neither could the legal tariffs and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u94	Mr. Jerovšek, I'd like to remind you of the diabolical diet.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u95	Of course, you couldn't afford a lawyer's fee because you're addicted to some of the lawyers. One of them is doing business in one of the client's law offices. This is why I have to say again: Finally, we have a coalition that is aware of the development needs of the young generation on healthy nutrition and the possibility of equal opportunities, about equal opportunities. You'd throw away your talents outside Ljubljana. And you know that's how we're going to depend on whether or not we're going to take advantage of all the potential. This potential is generally evenly distributed across Slovenia. This does not go according to your thinking that only the elite must be provided within the possibility. Also from those social strata that do not belong, those that you have supported abundantly with your marriage in previous mandates come extraordinary, brilliant young people. It is, of course, necessary and clear that this government and this law do not come with a pre-election balloon to look to the future. Stop fooling around. Enough of this hypocrisy to support this law and at the same time reject it in your soul. If you feel that this marriage is as bad as you think it is, give it to the referendum. And the Free Daycare Act. Put that on the referendum. And you'll get answers if you can't find them yourself. I think you're in urgent need of these people's answers. Because I can't really understand that there is so much scepticism, so much rejection, so much opposition in such laws. At the same time, this broad generosity when you were in power, with your laws, you distributed money to certain chosen ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Many arguments were made. I'd like to say it again, because obviously some things don't work. Members of the opposition are not, as the opposition said in the previous term, we have already proposed such a law. And now that we are in position, we propose again. So don't tell us that now we've remembered before the elections. We have already thought about this and we have done it in concrete terms. Of course, we were overvoted at the time, I'm sorry. I would also like to say that these constant claims about some pre-election candy are already a little boring. After all, even if they were pre-election candy or diet, as they say, it is after all, because the diaphragm will remain. Diagnostic nutrition will also remain for the next generation of students. When you have so much concern that the next government will essentially have to worry about financing this diet, and I will tell you straight away, it is right for the next government to work as well as it had to. Because I'd like to remind you that this government inherited an empty little one. I probably won't say anything new. But I'll just remind you that at the beginning of this term it was a public debt, 3, 4. At times, however, 5% of gross domestic product was found. That was a public debt. It's less than 1% today. And that was an inheritance. This public debt inherited by this Government is significantly higher than the price for this student meal, which will have to be financed by the next government in full. And as you said, there was no time in the previous term for the student diet, because you had higher goals. It means that they were not higher targets, they were not able to join the EU, and that is why they could not finance other things. Yes, but what it cost to join the European Union, and we have helped you in the opposition. Therefore, it was not necessary to have 5% of the public debt if measured by gross domestic product. As much as he was in 2004 with the help of experts at the time, financial experts who found that one year is not a financial year for 12 months, but is 10 months for expenditure and 13 months for expenditure. Which is also our colleague who sits in the back bench on the other side, as he was elected. So these were the problems that hired you more. Not to worry about higher goals so our students can have food. And when you've talked so much about the legal consequences, the funds aren't provided. Allow me to remind you of the legal consequences this Government already inherited in 2004 that for December 2004, this was the first month that this Government was working, for the salaries of the teacher there was no money. Whose legacy was that? What are the higher objectives of this, however, that you did not even have the funds to pay teachers in December 2004? Today, however, you have such concerns about how the next government will finance the diet of the diocese. These are the facts you've probably forgotten about. But we didn't forget, because when this government sat in a chair, it had to fund and get somewhere, plot money for teachers' salaries in December 2004. They were gone, dear fellows of the opposition. You must have forgotten that? And when you say why this law wasn't before, why we didn't support your proposals when you were talking about increasing funds with amendments. You know, it's a big difference whether to file a law or with an amendment to increase some funding for some co-financing where regulation is not systemic. According to your suggestions, there would still be a committee in each congregation that would determine, on the basis of all the information that the parents of the students should bring, whether their child is fit to receive a food subsidy or not. So we'd have a bunch of commissions. That's the kind of system law no commission needs. The only document or evidence is that the student is in school. That's what they find out anyway. So it's probably not some special burden and it can't be. It is said that the system law is something other than your appointment of some committees that will only determine which child is fit to receive a diametric diet. That is why, of course, I support such a law and will now vote in favour. But I would just say, don't worry so much about whether the next government will be able to do all this. Whatever it is, she'll have to work harder. Let him do it! It also worked when it received an empty small amount in the budget and did not have funds in the budget for those basic things. That is to say, if that could have been settled then and the public debt reduced by hundreds of millions of euros, then there will also be a few ten million euros for the student diet the next government will already be able to get together. Even if - well, I'd rather let that go. So, I'm going to support this marriage because I think it's about time that it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Cyril Testen, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, presidents, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Some students in Posočje drive to the secondary school in Novo Gorica after more than an hour and a half in one direction. And for those, I am particularly glad that they will be able to receive one suitable warm meal, which will also be cheap or free of charge. I am aware that an additional €16 million will have to be provided with the budget rebalancing already in 2008 so that this law can be implemented already in the school year 2008/2009. Nevertheless, I think the budget is capable of doing so. And yet I support the adoption of this law. Why do I support this law? First of all, I support you for your health. I think they are children who are in the most sensitive or very sensitive period. And it's only right that they have a warm meal. Especially because this meal is very important. It's at an important time of the day. Many also get sick because of poor nutrition. Another important thing that I think is particularly important for those families that have many children, who have more children and more children at the same time in secondary education, is an important relief in their family budget. So I think that's very important. There was a speech that some schools would not have the conditions for 2008/2009. Nevertheless, I support the idea that this law will be introduced as soon as possible because I believe that conditions will be put in place more quickly than they would have been. There were also comments that we did not support the budget of the amendments of the opposition Members. I don't think it was a systemic solution. It was a change that didn't have a clear purpose. So I don't think that with those amendments something concrete could be solved. With regard to the discharges or ratings to be adopted in 2008, given that it is an electoral year, in 2004 I would like to point out that we now have a relatively stable budget so that this budget can also finance a diatrical diet. However, in 2004, when this government took over the helm, we had a minus of 70 billion inherited debt, which means that even for that reason, the then government was unable to "spouse" any overleaves before the elections. As for those comments when it was said that there was a provision for a sub-law, I believe that in Article 4 of this Act, the Minister would adopt it. You know, this is the law that goes on. The comparison with the Penal Code doesn't hold up here. Because the Penal Code is one. The execution of penal procedures is another. And it is also different because this method of maintenance or this way of serving this punishment is carried out by another ministry. So this comparison doesn't seem to hold up at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! I'm glad that he came to our bench. Also because I signed it myself and because I know it improves the nutritional situation of young people. On the one hand, we have a very exemplary student diet with vouchers. This is also provided by others who are coming, guests of various kinds who come to Slovenia and see how we have this arranged. Why not also arrange for a few years for younger students to do so by subsidizing their diet? They are in a period that is very important for regular healthy nutrition. This also gives rise to healthy eating habits in later periods of life. And I think it's one of the key, important laws that improve the lives of young children through kindergartens, primary school, and all the way to adults. Of course, it is no wonder that there are so many fears or so many doubts about the adoption of this law. They're worried about where the money is. For good things, you need to find money. If necessary, with the budget rebalancing. They say it's a pre-election balloon or candy that comes at the expense of the election. I myself strongly reject this, because we could have insisted that this would be the only law that is for the benefit of our citizens. But since the whole series is too time-consuming to say all the laws that also improve the social status of our families and individuals, starting from the beginning when we arranged the reconciliation of pensions, subsidisation of municipalities, which also indirectly affect the standard of our citizens to the free kindergarten for another child. And, of course, we're here now with this law. The fact is, everything can't be accepted and implemented at once. The fact is, we need to take it one step at a time. We've made these steps the way we are. Perhaps it would be better to adopt one law before the other or vice versa. But it is right to go in this direction to enable people to live better lives and to make it possible by such laws. That is why I am pleased that this law has come to Parliament. I'm glad I'm also a cosigner of this marriage. I'm sorry it wasn't adopted before, like, four years ago. At the time, it was an ideal option, and they could have thrown those blanks back at us and said, "Yes, let the other government deal with this problem now." I think that this Government and this Parliament will not leave things open, but we will also regulate this area of funding through measures that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the marriage. In doing so, I do not want to burden myself with the most appropriate form and time. We were aware of this problem all the time in New Slovenia. That is why we are also cosigners of this law. The law is positive because it offers students the possibility of subsidised regular diet. Even those who didn't have those options now. I am aware that students who are in the most sensitive years and do not have a regular and adequate diet everywhere need regular and proper nutrition. Since it is essential for healthy psychophysical development, they will be able to meet all the obligations that we put ahead of them and thus have a good basis for healthy and active age. It is the duty of the State to create conditions so that every citizen and citizen can take care of their health. And the introduction of a subsidised diet for all students is one of such forms of intervention by the State, which can have good consequences not only in the area of better health and well-being of students, but also in the general formulation of a public opinion on regular, balanced and healthy diet. At the same time, I do not think it is negligible that parents will be burdened, both financially and burdensomely, as food will be organised within schools and during school hours. So the students will have control, and they won't run into the inn. I wish the schools would take this as an opportunity. I mean, in terms of organising and providing appropriate premises. All for the sake of our youth. And that's what's gonna happen next school year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nicely greeted, Secretary of State with a coworker, colleagues and colleagues! In view of the debate of some opposition Members and Members, it would be good first to clarify whether or not we need the law if we are to provide the students with a warm meal. What some of you have explained, yes, since in recent years we have tabled amendments in order to ensure a certain subsidy, was, first of all, to find out, without a legal basis. We have had many debates, both on committees and in the National Assembly, on some proposals where there was no legal basis for this. And to explain such things here in the National Assembly, I think it's incorrect. If the law had been passed at the time, the amendments would not have been necessary. As we have heard several times today, it could already be proposed by someone else in this mandate. Here, as far as the state budget or the local budget is concerned, there must only be order. That is why we say that the country, on the one hand, as a local community on the other, must carry out the legally binding tasks - by law. So it's got to be the law for that. And this coalition has drawn up a law so that we can carry it out. And I'd be happy to support him. If we adopt this law, there is a commitment. Now I don't know how some of you think, or you've been discussing today, "I don't see the item in the budget." That's what I was talking about earlier. It has to be the law so that the item can come into the budget. And I would certainly be disappointed if there were no funds needed for 2008 in the balance sheet. However, I firmly believe that the Ministry of Finance will also provide the necessary financial resources. So there is no doubt about it if we are completely realistic when we look at reality in the future, but not with some political aspects of the matter - once in a different way, once in a while, as it suits us. We'd do something without laws once. Once we want it to be a marriage. See also from another point of view, I will certainly support the law in view of the fact that these are for students of the age who are certainly the most sensitive and need this diet. I am very happy or have discussed this for the last time so that we can take as an example a wide variety of employers who provide their workers with warm food. I know some companies where it's actually an obligation for a worker to enjoy a warm diet, because the employer also realizes that he needs a healthy person. And if we are not aware today that we need healthy children, that we need a healthy, walking person, those who attend high schools, that these are the most important or so-called sensitive years, then I don't know what else to add. And since this coalition is aware of this, this proposal for a law has also come to the National Assembly. I'm sure we'll all be happy to support him, too. At least I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to representatives of the school ministry and colleagues and colleagues! Your Honor! I don't know if I'm supposed to cry or if I'm supposed to start fighting. But I'm certainly very sad. Regrettably, because whenever, let it be the government, let it be a position, it proposes a good law, the opposition will always be full of remarks that it is not appropriate that it is not good, that it does not cause harm. In short, we don't know what's going on. Just so that one thing that's good for everyone is for the students of opposition and positional parties, which of course you're talking about that. However, we can never get rid of this feeling that anything on the side of the position is proposed, encounters resistance, some kind of hatred. I mean, respected colleagues and colleagues - let's put this thing aside for once and let's say bob beans. If it's a good thing, if it's bad, it's bad. And I'm willing to accept this criticism myself. See, students - these are children during the most sensitive period when they grow, when they develop, when they become from children men and at least boys and girls and during this sensitive period it is most important that they have a properly balanced diet. Let's see, America. We're all wooding fast. We're wooding for America. We're looking for an example in America. But what Mr Koren said can also be seen in the daily view of television in cases of such contact shows. More or less young people, and especially those who are slightly worse off, are too fat and far from being fit for their years. And I think that the purpose of this law is to, for the first time, settle and also to balance this daily meal. And at the end of the day, what I find in our case is that at the high school centre, where there is already a kitchen, this meal is very, very expensive and that I have also experienced in the office of the Member that the parents have come to complain that the meal is too expensive to want the child to be, but that the meal is simply too expensive. Besides, they don't give them enough time to eat this meal in peace. I think this law gives all the conditions for these things to be settled. Some spoke of some fears about how many such disorderly schools there were. And when I look at this list we have received, from the 120 high schools listed above, there are only two secondary schools that have neither an orderly diet nor a near-food option nor a third that there is no possibility of regulating it. And what I'm going to say is, one of these is in Domžalah in the Domžalé Central School, where in the past they had much more to do with the fact that the stone school was taken down by high school than they were to invest energy and money in having adequate food facilities. And also, I have to replicate Mrs Majdi Shirca's editorial, who named me, when I once said that we would not disappoint the voters in the past, and that we would not leave such a mess as the previous governments have left him. It is true, I repeat, that when our Government made a commitment, we met with 70 billion deficits in the Government, and of this, in the absence of funds for teachers' salaries. We've been talking about some irrelevant things. We also discussed how we would pay our teachers. And in order to secure this money, we had to accept at the very beginning of the rebalancing to avoid it. I am sure that this Government is responsible, that it has also planned the funds responsibly and that it will also discharge this mandate in a responsible manner, probably with a balance, and certainly with a surplus in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Much is being discussed today about the resources needed to enforce this law. I don't see any trouble here alone. For there is a rebalancing in preparation, and this is where the means will be spent. Also claims that this is mainly a pre-election promise or a candy bar to save every student who attends school for a month or so about 50 euros for food. True, it can mean a lot to a lot of people, a lot of parents. A lot of people who get a scholarship will be able to make that money for something else. However, we have heard many times today, and I think there should be more emphasis on this. This type of diet, or so arranged diaphragm diet, has far greater positive indirect effects. Young people in this period are certainly most susceptible to the adoption of some extremely important practices that they can then apply throughout their lifetime. If we remember when we were students alone when there were no food options available, many of us took over this habit and did not enjoy a meal or a warm meal in the morning. We know that this is an extremely unhealthy way of life, as well as today's health strategy, which continues to play an extremely important role in this area. It is therefore right that this is a systematic attempt on our students, for these are the only population of our youth. Schools are arranged, kindergartens are arranged, students also have students who are the only group of children or adolescents who do not have it arranged. This is the last group to have arranged this now. I regret that this was not the same as the student diet in the field of diaphragm. But it's never too late. I firmly believe that this will contribute to our young people becoming accustomed to these practices, then in their later years they will try to take up time already in the morning and not least to ensure that they have at least one meal, and if this is warm, it will be even healthier. So this law, in addition to its financial effects, has an extremely important meaning, as I said, indirectly, that we will have a better healthy lifestyle in Slovenia. That is why, of course, I will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! There was much to be heard today about the subject of the student diet, and, of course, in the beginning I would like only to say the facts in a slightly different way than the ruling coalition or at least the members of the two parties to this coalition. For the first time, the law that deals with basic development programmes in the field of education has, of course, provided a legal opportunity to provide a student diet. So much for those who say that this law is necessary in order for us to be able to do it at all. That's not true. The legal basis exists, but of course it is a fact that more resources should be provided to ensure that the student diet is provided. It is interesting that today when you say that you filed this in 2004 or that the decision on this law in 2004, in 2005, in 2006, in 2007 or at the end of the year, you were not prepared to follow the intention you had in 2004. And today it's interesting to listen to your discussions where you get involved. On the one hand, you say that in 2004 there was a deficit in the budget and it was difficult to make commitments, and today you are talking about how the previous government did not do so. When we tell you that the government has done so, that it has complied with the law, and that it has also followed the principles of how food is provided, it has definitely taken into account that those who already have a lot get less or nothing compared to those who could not get it. Mr Vice President, I would like to ask you, Mr Pojbich, you can give your word at any time if he applies, and when I speak, and I know what I will say, I don't need him to help me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u112	I'll be forced to order a break if there's no peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will be happy to hear arguments that will speak against my implementation. Today, it has been said what needs to be done for young people and that this coalition will be written down or that the largest ruling party will be recorded in the history of what it does for young people. I would remind this ruling coalition party of how she adopted the resolution on higher education. The entire professional public of higher education, universities, research institutions, student population, unions, they were all against and, of course, today this party is talking about the concern with which it will register with its great actions. How can so diametrically mislead the Slovenian public in the light of the concerns expressed? Talk about it, give everyone the same food, a warm meal. Today was a meeting of high school principals in Radenci. On this subject, many questions have been raised on this law. Ask me how many satisfying answers were there. How pleased are the directors who do not have the conditions to be able to implement this law 1.9.2008 as they left this Council today in Radenci. Today you're talking about data on individual high schools. I can tell you for particular schools that the data in that review is not valid. You asked them again from the Ministry to check the situation. Hold it! You re-checked them, but you weren't enough to be for schools where you know there's not a situation that's in that review to correct it yourself. Why did you once again invite the secondary schools to provide you with data if you had such a vehemently available to them in the pre-treatment phase? Because the records are flawed. And now schools have begun to worry about why, because we adopted this law on the committee with the amendment from 1.9.2008. For the delay to implementation was earlier significantly longer. And here's the problem. And if we are responsible in this house, then we must give the principals the answers to how they will be able to remove this law. But not here today, we ask the administrators and count on the administrators to go beyond their ability to do so. This is unfair to both the principals and the parents and the students. And if we're talking here today, we're going to provide everyone with the same diet, it's not going to be possible. Today, let us be correct and say that it will not be possible to do so 1.9.2008. My colleague Testen spoke of students driving in one direction for an hour and driving in the other direction for half an hour. This will be for the organisation of a school with this provision, which states that the school, the high school can warm a meal of value, just a moment, so the school must provide this warm meal during the training in the appropriate building in which it operates in a sufficiently long time. I wonder what effect this will have on transport, what consequences this will have in the organisation of learning. Do not tell us that we are against providing students with a good diet. On the contrary, we ask questions which this law does not answer. And this law does not give any answers even when you say that you will provide the best possible conditions for eating. Far from this, because if this were the case, then we would not have come up with an amendment in the third reading with a proposal that, of course, the offer should also be provided at the price of a subsidised meal. And when you continue to talk about the need to take care of the young generation and to create their eating habits; yes, how you remembered to do this in the 15th, 16th years of age. Why, if this law is a reflection of a systematic approach, why did you not approach the provision of food throughout the vertical educational process? Unfortunately, you did not do so and say that it is necessary to make the behavior of high school students at the age of 15. Those who tell me this know very little about the educational, educational and educational process, because education and the creation of habits in young people begins in significantly younger years. If someone thinks that he will start raising his child at the age of 15, and if this is a message from this Parliament that working habits should be cultivated in 15-year-olds, then you have slept for a few first ten years. Then come to high school and try to change their life patterns in 15-year-olds. In general terms, it is possible to do a lot of things, but today we are talking about that 15-year-olds need to start talking about eating habits, and we have been referring them to hamburgers since the third year, but in this case the approach is completely wrong. And that's what we're talking about today, we're talking about these arguments today. Not because someone's here today, or because they're bragging about something. The responsibility for creating the conditions of a healthy diet lies with us all, both the opposition and the coalition. And I myself support this law in good solutions, but at the same time I point out the problems that this law will bring about inability to implement. And I did not get an answer if the student's complaint is 2.9.2008 that a warm meal is not guaranteed, and the law requires the school to do so, and the law states that then it is a responsibility by punishing, I wonder who will take responsibility. I didn't get that answer in the whole stage of this treatment. And today, of course, I'm resetting it, because of the concerns of the students and the concerns of the administrators. At this meeting in Radenci, which is being concluded today, questions under this law were falling and there were no satisfactory answers given the number of questions. And if you look at it, fifteen days after this law comes into effect, the 60-day deadline for the preparation of the regulations begins, that's in the middle of July. You expect all procedures to be carried out by 1.9. These are serious warnings, which we also require clear answers and views. Today's law is an investment in the future, it is definitely, and we can agree here. Of course, this is a systematic approach to managing the diet of schooling young people, but here, unfortunately, I cannot assure you. And one more thing. There was also a lot of talk today about healthy nutrition. Healthy diet has several components. It is not just the menu that speaks of healthy diet, it is the time to give a meal, and it is the number of meals. Also think about when it comes to school schedules, the obligations of the programme that will need to be implemented daily, and ask yourself what will be the balance between the number of meals, the composition of the right meal and the time for such a meal. All these three ingredients are part of a healthy diet. And here are the concerns that we have to answer them with the right answers so that it would not be a pre-election story. For if it were not a pre-election story, this solution could be on the table as early as January 2005. Because the economic situation at the time of this government was more favourable than it is at the moment. The cost of living and inflation has never been as high as it is today. And with the support of this law, we would like to draw attention to all these facts that will cause, with the good purpose of this law, no one has disputed the good purpose of this law, but, of course, in reality, there is a significant difference in the implementation and the essential objectives that some Members and Members are trying to bring to bear here today in good faith in caring for the development of the young population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, Dr. Alenka Svertz, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u115	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the Ministry of Education, we are pleased that today, after the long and varied legislative proposals made by the Government in the field of education, we may find at least something in common today and perhaps even in the opposition we can hear as in the coalition, that we all agree that students deserve a warm meal and that at the time of teaching. The reasons that you have mentioned here why it is necessary to take care of a warm meal at the time of school are probably all very well-founded, from the fact that education takes a very long time for young people to be away from the place of school, to the fact that it is necessary for young people to develop habits, I agree that it is not a habit to start at 15 years of age, but I believe that parents in their families are at meals and behaviour when eating food, which is not an important bonton, but a relationship to food, primarily working families, then kindergartens and, finally, primary schools, which have provided regular meals and also warm meals. When we planned primary schools, we had a long time ago vision that each primary school should be able to offer both a cold meal and a warm meal, so we know that we are starting to teach young people at the age of 15 that it is important to eat healthy meals and have regular meals. So, with these arguments, probably everyone, and with the extra ones that I'm not going to repeat here, we probably all agree. However, we would probably also find on the next question whether all schools will have 100% perfect, excellent, the best new last dining rooms and kitchens in the autumn, perhaps we can also answer this question together, no, all schools will not have excellent, ideal and best conditions. However, you, honourable Members, here I simply ask, I come from Koroška and there we do not have a highway. Would you agree that for so long no one in Slovenia will use motorways until we have all excellent, beautiful motorways to Koroška, Prekmurje and Dolenjska? Or if we look at the school area, we know that everyone has not yet the most beautiful gyms, as we have opened it in Kočev, and that is why we have not adopted a postponement decision to introduce sports education into primary school or secondary school. We know that everyone, so even in high school in the fall, will not have the best conditions to introduce this law. So, the decision and the weighting in the meantime, most will have good conditions, and not all will. The heavyweight has prevailed, perhaps with the MPs who have tabled this amendment, that despite the problems that appear in the autumn, we will decide that it is wise to offer this option to the majority, so that we can put in place a warm meal for the students and for those problems that they will be able to solve constructively with the schools. Therefore, when the first draft of the law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure, the Ministry of Education approached schools to analyse the situation once again in order to refresh the situation in schools. Not because we wouldn't know anything about what dining rooms schools have, but because we decentralized the system of investment in education under this government. This means that the principals decide for themselves each year whether to equip the dining rooms or to equip, replace the windows or anything. So, as reasonable and responsible masters, directors decide where they will invest money each year to maintain buildings and equip schools. That is why, of course, we called on our supervisors to answer a very extensive questionnaire. It is true, however, that some directors at that time were not careful enough that the matter is very serious and very serious, that we could say little at home, so we called them again because we were not satisfied with the answers and because we know that this problem can only be solved in partnership with schools, so that they can answer the questions once again. In addition, our investment service has gone to the field after school and is reviewing, along with responsible services, what is actually going on in schools. Well, the investment service is very active in our ministry. With regard to sub-laws, of course we will not see them in two months, even so the Ministry of Education has already joined, and in the Radenci, respected directors are already discussing the draft regulation, in accordance with this law, giving their comments. I believe there are some fears, but I believe that our directors are well-organised enough to find good solutions for their schools, because they have different conditions, so that this law can be implemented. Because I think that all the principals in Radenci have also answered the question whether we are for students to get a warm meal at the time of school. And I don't think there was a principal who wouldn't answer that question with a yes. And if we answer yes, then all these procedures and procedures need to be resolved properly and in partnership. I only hope that in the fall, when this law begins to come true, we will not only look for problems and publish them, but, above all, we will seek positive solutions and a positive climate for the realisation of this law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education will continue their efforts to ensure that Slovenian education is free of charge and accessible to all and will support measures such as free second children in kindergartens, textbooks of funds we have gradually introduced, free of charge and now for students. These are measures that we probably all support and behind them, and we believe that the contribution to children and youth is one that brings perspective to everything else we do, including you in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much. You've got your word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet run out, I ask on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, if anyone else wants a word? One, Dr. Mitja Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Didn't let me do it. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u118	You have five minutes at your disposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u119	It'll be less, thank you very much. [[...]] It didn't leave me alone not to answer to Mrs. Secretary of State. When I listened to her, I got a sense of manipulation. We can all agree that this is probably one of the few, if not the first law that the Secretary of State defends in this National Assembly, but that it is not so strongly opposed by the entire opposition supported by the professional and other public. But where's the manipulation that stabbed me? This law has not been proposed by the government, so much the more it shows that the government is really proposing bad laws. Those laws, which are then defended in your ministry, were proposed by fellow Members. Obviously, it would have been better if some of ours, but not only coalition, and even the opposition's proposals sometimes listened a little bit more and, I am sure, not every marriage of yours had experienced such opposition, even the threat of a referendum as it has been so far. I want to tell you, and from this place, it's good to listen to someone else sometimes, even though it's not yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. The draft law will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, Thursday 24 April 2008, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the outset, this is a proposal for an architectural and engineering act under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. With regard to this bill, the groups of 10 and 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Aleš Gulic and Mr Mirano Ptræ requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Bricel, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u121	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Act on Architecture and Engineering was created on the initiative of the profession and on the basis of the knowledge of the Ministry of Environment and Space on the importance of architectural and engineering activities, which together contribute to the quality, usability and functionality of the built space. As a result, neither the Spatial Planning Act nor the amendment of the Construction Law have informed any responses to initiatives and knowledge that changes to the existing legislation are also necessary in relation to the activity, assembly activities and conditions for carrying out the construction and spatial planning professions. The proposal for the Act on Architecture and Engineering was fully and permanently coordinated with the representatives of the profession. In particular with the representatives of the Chamber of Architecture and Space and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. The Ministry of Environment and Space, as the drafter of the proposal, was able to reach a consensus in January 2008, meaning a harmonised text of the bill. Such harmonised material has been transmitted to a further admission procedure that has brought additional changes and other solutions. These solutions, in particular those relating to the exercise of public powers in the Ministry and to the related status of membership, were not agreed by part of the profession. This was reflected in public debates and media responses. Part of the section that responded to the slightly amended proposal of the law insisted on the consideration and adoption of a bill that was in line with the representatives of the two competent professional chambers. The harmonised draft law included solutions based on the self-regulatory role of the Chambers on the principle of compulsory membership and extensive public powers, as well as some other solutions. In the proposal submitted to the legislative procedure, these solutions have been amended. The Ministry of Environment and Space, as the drafter of the bill, followed public debates and responses to the draft law and, in this regard, has repeatedly expressed its readiness to participate in the consideration of proposals for possible amendments in the process of enacting legislation in the National Assembly. This directly refers to the response to the amendments tabled to the proposed text of the law in order to harmonise the text of the proposal with the comments made by the section. The main solutions to the proposed law, which constitute more significant changes compared to the legislation in force in this area, are: the abolition of compulsory membership in professional chambers in order to seek to implement the release of conditions in the market for services; the implementation of the tasks performed so far by the competent chambers in relation to the granting of licences; the conduct of professional examinations and the management of directories at the Ministry of the Environment and Space; greater and clearer transparency of titles and powers and conditions for obtaining them; the establishment of an internship institute; the protection of professional titles - architect, landscape architect, spatial planner and authorised engineers; the deregulation of certain legal solutions towards the removal of administrative barriers related to the acquisition of stamps, ID cards; the abolition of the commission decision to register; the consolidation of exams and so on. Taking into account the professional initiatives, the proposal to amend the law by taking into account the latest harmonised material with the representatives of the competent chambers, the proposed text would include the maintenance of compulsory membership and public powers in the scope so far at the Chambers, the introduction of the possibility of setting up a design company, and the protection of the design title in all dictionary forms, the maintenance of project records at the Chambers, the introduction of compulsory permanent professional education. The legislative process is based democratically on the possibility of different opinions and views in this process, which means that certain solutions to the draft law can still be harmonised and amended in the direction of the proposals put forward in the public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. As a result of some of its substantive provisions, the bill has caused a lot of excitement in certain professional circles, and in this regard, we are pleased in our Group of Members that the Government has clearly expressed its readiness to face unconstant content and to listen to a good argument, and the acceptability of better solutions that should follow a broader consensus within the relevant departments. In doing so, Members of the DeSUS agree that the consensus that we believe will be reached must follow the tendency to increase the quality of spatial and architectural planning. The reasons for the renovation of existing legislation in the area of spatial planning of architectural and engineering design and all related services in the construction of buildings, which are dispersed in several regulations, are more than warranted for a thorough intervention into existing matter, which must address the issue and a more complex and prudent principle in the spirit of pursuing public interest to raise quality in a built environment. The starting points for the preparation of a separate law, which should fully regulate the conditions for the provision of the activities and services of the engineering and architectural profession, have already been established in previous discussions on the preparation of roof spatial acts. In addition, the implementation of the legislation has shown additional unnecessary administrative obstacles and shortcomings, which have been shown to address and introduce more deliberate solutions. An additional reason to intervene in the existing regime is also the need to follow the European Union's acts. We agree with at least some of the proposed solutions in the DeSUS Group. This makes sense, according to our assessment, to ensure greater quality of the provision of services in spatial planning and construction of buildings, including through deregulation of conditions regarding possible legal forms, the exercise of these activities and, on the other hand, through strengthening the role of responsible designers, the conditions for the exercise of this profession and the profession of responsible auditor, which dictate amendments to the Construction Act, are appropriately raised. The partial deregulation of certain professions makes sense due to the demonstrated need to redefinition tasks and responsibilities in connection with the regulation under the Construction Act and the Law on the Regulation of the Premises. With regard to the question of assembly organisation, however, due to all the perceptions and dilemmas cited by the representatives of the profession in terms of opposition to the proposed concept of voluntary membership, it will be necessary to consider both the advantages and disadvantages of both possible ways of membership in the assembly system, taking into account the opinions of the areas of experts and the views of the legal profession which have already been identified on these issues in another area. In doing so, it should be stressed that any option will be confirmed is of paramount importance. Ensuring the independent status of the Chambers, the professional and quality performance of the tasks and a high degree of competitiveness, which should play a key role, last but not least after the necessary reduction of direct construction costs. While we are assessing in the DeSUS Group that the substance of the law basically constitutes an appropriate approach to regulating the activities of the engineering and architecture profession and we therefore support it. However, we believe that further consideration will be needed in this area, so that we remain open to possible proposals for improvements to the text of this law in the future stages of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, there is not much to say about the architecture profession in Slovenia. They demolish old historical buildings, they build some impossible colossals, some impersonal things they usually copy abroad, or they copy poorly executed projects that have not already justified their existence abroad and are transferred to Slovenian soil. The Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia rejects the proposal of the law, including with some argument that if this law is passed, there will no longer be a quality of built space in Slovenia. The quality of the built space in Slovenia is no longer there since the Austrian Austro-Hungarian monarchy disappeared. Since then, we have only some strange performers who have been tearing down long and long after, trying to build monuments, and that's why we also got that college in Ljubljana, because it was meant that there would be a wide avenue for parades there, and that's why they demolished some of the most beautiful baroque houses in Ljubljana. This continues now. They're going to tear down the Colosseum because they say we don't need this old facility in the middle of Ljubljana, and some new gentlemen are going to fly in and build some "grumbled" gambling facility that's full around the world. Collision is the only one left in the world. At the train station, they're fighting to build Emonica as soon as possible. The most important thing, to give and get the railroad underground, they don't even care that much. And here the profession is divided, we have one hundred percent for, and the other hundred percent against. By the time Kardelj gave the command to make a new Tivolska road, it had already been known that it made sense to put the railroad underground and that politicians who were so smart did not do so, and then, when moving the railway, they would rather have to tear down the Jakobica Pavilion. It's just going on. That's why I think there's a lot of things that need to be fixed in architecture, and above all open up a little bit of what I know, the spirit. After all, if we look at the Faculty of Architecture, it certainly is one of the most ugly buildings in Ljubljana. One would expect something else - to at least make their nest such that it will be pleasant at least in the eye, if not within well arranged. We wonder where these activities have been in the Chamber of Architecture and Space so far, given the poor quality of most new buildings, poor urban accommodation, poor regulation of the road network in Ljubljana. Ljubljana is still cut in half by rail. In fact, there are still only two major releases between one half and the other half of the city and one smaller. They didn't do anything! Instead of stepping together and doing something for the capital, they argue, who will build something, they build some strange houses, which are mostly, as I have already said, copies of some constructions from abroad. And that's more or less all. If someone gets a project, if an architectural office gets a project, another architectural office will do everything, not to present better conditions, but to spit on that project, even at the expense of the population's bibian environment. All of this is true and all of this is, in fact, tragic. It is only bad that the government tries to do more damage to other segments of the law despite the fact that it wants to settle certain matters. The country rejects the partnership with the Chambers, and this relationship contributes significantly to the protection of consumers and the quality of the built space. But this relationship, I understand why he's rejecting it - he's rejecting it because he doesn't believe this profession. It is difficult to believe a profession that is as scattered and as shattered as it is an architectural profession. Everyone pulls on their side, everyone's the best, everyone masters everything, and then when it comes to building, there's all kinds of kicks, like what happened at the oncology institute, where the architects drew a smaller door than the width of the hospital bed, and the hospital bed just couldn't get through the door. This is certainly not the fault of that manual worker, the brick builder, but someone else is responsible. And there's as many cases as you want. Cases are known when a great architect forgot to plan in one of the many floor buildings of the toilet and had to write it in afterwards. That's what's going on. I think somewhere abroad, in Europe, such an architect would lose his license and could only design dog houses for smaller kinds of dogs. I don't think we can go in this loving country. But one more thing is that despite the fact that the law stipulates no longer compulsory membership, but that everyone decides on its own terms, we think that, despite all of this, it is too small and we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Marinič has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleague and colleague. Before us another law in the field of environmental and spatial regulation, namely the Act on Architecture and Engineering, which was sent by the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the National Assembly for a regular procedure. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that changes to the Spatial Planning Act and amendments to the Construction Act should be made to the relevant legal frameworks in the field of architectural and engineering activities. These changes need to make the area more transparent and less difficult, reducing the need for bureaucratic barriers so that we are less complicated for individual phase operators in the area of spatial planning and construction of buildings, especially more user-friendly ones. With the Act on the Architecture and Engineering Chamber, the proposer wanted to exclude all those provisions relating to the conditions for carrying out activities and regulated professions in the field of architectural and engineering activities and the provisions relating to the functioning of the competent professional chambers, namely the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. At the same time, the proposal seeks to redefine the conditions for carrying out regulated occupations in the area of spatial planning and construction of buildings, to regulate the area of vocational education for all regulated professions in the area of construction of buildings and spatial planning. In the opinion of the SDS Group, it is essential to ensure that solutions are appropriate in the regulation, planning and construction of the Slovenian space. Only suitable solutions can make our space more quality. The law also regulates the scheme and legal framework for awarding awards and their financing in the field of architecture, landscape architecture and spatial planning. In the view of the SDS Group, two solutions are of particular importance, which are at least partly interrelated. It is a matter of compulsory or voluntary membership in both professional chambers, i.e. the Chamber of Architecture and Space and the Chamber of Engineers and the question of public powers, which, according to the SDS Group, is even more important. Following the discussions we had both within the SDS Group and after discussions with the various experts from the profession, as well as from practice, there are many possible solutions here. Whether the powers remain under direction in the domain of the competent chambers, whether they are transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Space, or whether we decide on a transitional period that will lead to the right path, or whether a better and more appropriate solution can be found below. It also raises the question of the validity of the powers and their renewal, as there is rapid development in the field of architecture and construction. That is why the area of education and the renewal of knowledge and new knowledge in this area, according to the SDS Group, is very important. We are familiar with various solutions, the form of chambers, as different countries, based on their experiences, knowledge and their specificities, know both the form of voluntary and compulsory membership in the relevant chambers. We are also familiar with the opinions and views of both Slovenian Chambers, which have a similar position on this issue, and we are also aware of proposals which deviate from these views. We have spent a lot of time in this area, so we have listened to the different opinions of the profession, and above all to the people who are trying to create this wonderful architecture in Slovenia, which sometimes really punishes the environment. In the SDS Group, we believe that there will be enough time in the next procedure to prepare a law that will satisfy both the interests of the Chambers and the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The Act on Architecture and Engineering was already announced when we adopted the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction of Buildings and these facts are also mentioned in the introduction when the proposaler tries to justify the situation and reasons for the adoption of this Act. Unfortunately, there are no valid reasons in the text of the law for completely changing the organisation of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia and the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia. The law provides for optional membership, the withdrawal of public powers, thus also providing for sources of funding for those chambers, and also provides for the distribution of assets. In short, a drastic change in the organisation of these chambers. We can also conclude that, last but not least, this means the abolition of the current organisation of the Architectural Chamber and the Engineering Chamber. Of course, this raises many questions. Therefore, we believe that the proposal should give more details on the reasons for such drastic changes. Finally, the Ministry of Environment and Space, which assumes the tasks of the Chamber, which have been given public powers, is not exactly a guarantee that everything will take place as some who may wish to point out shortcomings in the operation so far. From the materials we receive in the parliamentary offices, we can see that even the most comments can be made in some way on the functioning of the Chamber of Architecture and Space, and less comments have been observed at least during this period on the functioning of the Chamber of Engineers, but these interpretations, as I have said, cannot be traced to the law, so that we can only figure out what is actually happening in practice. Above all, we miss the following fact that this Act on Architecture and Engineering should be in line with the universities, the Chamber of Commerce and, above all, the Chamber of Commerce. In fact, we find that Slovenia still needs engineers and techniques, because without them there will be no faster development of industry and, above all, we must not allow it to start economically or to start falling economic growth and it should not happen to us that we will lose our profession and that we will bind our development to the technical intelligence that is supposed to come to Slovenia from abroad. To prevent this, of course, there must be really very good cooperation between universities, between the economy and, of course, the assembly organisation. We can certainly say that the economy will have to respond to this situation and also somehow redistribute wages to the benefit of engineers. That is why, of course, we also need capable economists. Social Democrats think we have them in Slovenia. Of course, it is a question of how the Government treats them and how it actually supports them in its development. We believe that, above all, the country's smart assistance is needed. Not meddling politics in the economy. We therefore believe that the Act on the Architecture and Engineering Chamber should also be well negotiated with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and, in particular, with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and universities, and also with this law, in particular, should provide assistance in the best possible transfer of knowledge from the faculty to the economy or from the faculty to practice. Only such congregational organization will therefore make sense and be needed today. Unfortunately, we note that the content of the law submitted does not show this. We therefore expect that the content of this law, and in particular the reasons for such a text of the law, will be clarified in the course of the adoption of this law, and, above all, we want this new assembly organisation to enable a very good and effective transfer of knowledge from college to practice. We're not just thinking about the economy here. But in fact also the needs of municipalities due to the new laws on spatial planning, the construction of buildings, where it is necessary to adopt a whole range of the most important spatial acts in order to plan our development. Not only in the congregations, but also in the countries in the future. So we're in a very delicate moment where we don't really need to argue between professions, but a good "sport", good support professions so that experts can give as much of their knowledge as possible. Especially in these practical solutions that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Guliš has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u131	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! This law is, of course, the one that would, say, be disqualified in what competition because it was caused by a misappropriation. Indeed, we again have before us a law which, as Mr State Secretary has said, is to be created in cooperation with those who are involved in all these activities and, of course, it was not so. I must say that I believe both architectural and engineering chambers that they were somehow pretentious in the formation of this law. In fact, at the beginning or at the thought and consideration of the position of architects and engineers, there was indeed some negotiation with the Ministry, but the law, which then went away from all of this, is quite different. Since there was no public debate in which engineers and architects could face the applicant, it is now necessary to trust someone. And since in the middle of March both architects and engineers said a lot about this law, about getting up, about negotiating, and it was so badly denied or eloquently denied, then they have to be trusted. I believe, of course, that the basic objective of the law is to exclude from the current Law on the Construction of Buildings and the Law on Spatial Planning all those provisions relating to the conditions for carrying out activities. Clearly, every authority wants this, and then we come to what formerly a colleague of Victory Jelinčič said is how bad everything is, because there is always a policy involved. And then there will be everything in politics. At the same time, there will be another kind result - because of such a law, the chamber will start playing and then, in the end, it will only be possible to conclude that they can be terminated because they are no longer working. It is a policy that has shown a strong attitude towards knowledge, against professions, against education, of course, with a strong reference to how to become a knowledge society. Now let the one who can do this understand. On the one hand, there are great principles on the knowledge society, how the profession should decide on matters relating to the profession, and on the other hand, on the pruning of professions, not only in this area, but on another. The proposal for the Act on Architecture and Engineering then triggered a very strong response at the Chamber of Architecture and Space at the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. Both chambers were indignant because the proposal was in total contradiction with the expectations of both chambers and the coordination they had with the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Ministry of the Environment and the Space obviously doesn't know how to tell people. Here today in the first performance we heard how everything was fine, coordinated, okay, nice, but if I go to watch the mid-March records about these same things, then I see that the result of all of this was, if we put this on some common denominator, that 10 clues were said here half an hour ago were a hundred lies. It is said that even in this National Assembly, Members try to deceive themselves, convince them that everything is fine, how the engineers are happy and what jumps out of joy, the architects so much that they do not come here and give them a drink, but, of course, we have a completely different situation. So, of course, it's a big question or it can be decided on a scale basis. I count that there will be more discussions, not one, but more discussions, of course, about something else being prepared. After all, it would not hurt to have a public hearing or a round table if it did not go through a public hearing, at which, of course, the storytellers, who spoke so differently, would face it and then have at the same time, at the same place, these different opinions, not that a person should continue to look for different data, in order for the things to be settled as they are, I will say, we want the citizens and citizens of this country in particular. In view of all that has been said so far about the Proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering, and in particular what can be seen to be missing from all of this, it is said, in particular, at the final stage of the abolition of the Chambers or the nonsense of the existence of these Chambers, that the transfer of responsibility to whom, of course, to what services, which will then be the "paragraph later" processing matters. This intention, it is said, is constantly directed at those who know what they know, against the educated, against those who, of course, can also judge what matters on a substantive basis, this intention in the Liberal Democracy then leads us to vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. In view of what has already been said today, there is no hurry. It would be good to reconsider and keep talking about how this can still be changed in the process and amendments and so on. We know exactly what you're doing with our amendments or with the amendments that the profession brings us and puts them through us. Nothing, you vote them over, you go by and you don't pay attention to them. That is why I think it would be better to declare the law, however, that it is not appropriate for further consideration and that the procedures in some way be refreshed, repeated, because of me also with some more meaningful, new proposal for the Act on Architecture and the Act on Engineering, at least two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u133	Well-welcome, distinguished president, Secretary of State with a co-worker. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction, let me say that in Novi Slovenija we stand on the position of voluntary membership in the Chambers and on the granting of competition-based powers. There are some solutions to our position in this proposal for a new law that we are considering today, and we welcome these solutions. We therefore advocate voluntary membership, while at the same time granting powers to the representative chambers that will be part of their implementation. We do not advocate that all public powers become or are transferred to the Ministry, as the proposed law provides. In our view, the transitional period and the procedure for conferring powers on the Chambers should be defined much more precisely. The powers should remain in existing chambers during the transitional period of the organisation of the Chamber or Chambers. The management of the architectural chamber claims that the law is abolishing the chambers and that it will destroy everything the chambers have done so far. That's not true. The bill allows and permits the existence of chambers, but it does not command them. If the profession finds out what it already says it needs in blood, it will also establish it. If 300 architects or engineers agree, this chamber will become representative and 300 is large enough not to be afraid of the excessive dispersion of the chambers. If this chamber provides members with the services they expect from it for their money, they will be happy to be members of it. Still, those who fail to be satisfied with her services will be able to carry out the profession for which he has been trained. The bill allows members, meaning experts, to judge what the Chamber has done so far and to destroy what is not good with their possible departure. And if leadership is afraid that's all, then it's high time for that to happen. You know, if you step on a cat's tail, you're not. And some people are just making noises. We defend the existence of chambers, not monopolies. We advocate the granting of powers to the Chambers, but on the basis of competition and the effort to obtain only these, not on the basis of a law that allows a non-transparent business and any price of services, although it does not even blink at the finger. We defend the independence of the profession, but we do not defend the monopoly of leadership over the members of this profession. We advocate a chamber that serves the profession, not the profession that must serve the direction of the chamber. In doing so, it would be interesting to check how much of the membership stands for the views of the management. In our opinion, this percentage is not so large, on the contrary, it is smaller than the leadership wants to admit. And once again, the profession is not just the leadership of the chamber that screams the most about this law, it is also the profession of those who have nothing but great costs from membership and who want an open, progressive and friendly institution for which they will be proud. Furthermore, I would like to highlight the notion of public interest and the European standards that we have often heard in the process of drafting this law, or better said lobbying. Who determines what public interest is? Ministry, management of the Chamber, dissatisfied members of the Chamber, satisfied members of the Chamber or citizens? The answer would be quite simple if the opinions of these groups were consistent. But if public interest is one thing, and for someone else, then we can ask ourselves if we're even talking about public interest. And then European standards. Compulsory membership is supposed to be a European standard. Is the northern and western parts of Europe, where membership is voluntary, what is less European than southern and central with compulsory membership? But speaking of education in the area of space regulation, it is interesting that there is so little talk on the education system in this area. Are the product of this system adequately qualified experts? Or maybe even an integrated solution should start right here. Finally, let me point out that this law has already become quite politicised, as we have seen in various debates. In New Slovenia we agree that the situation in the field of architecture and engineering needs to be regulated. However, we are wondering, given the atmosphere that is currently governing this law, whether it will be possible to include in the law all those solutions that will regulate architectural and engineering activities in a qualitative manner until further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar or excuse Mr Janc Kristian will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the idea that a specific law will be adopted for architecture and engineering activities, which will regulate specificities and bring new starting points, which, compared to the current system, will add value and contribute to the improvement of the quality of the built environment. The reason for the adoption of a new law on the provision of activities and services is also the newly adopted European supervisory legislation relating to services and activities provided at this stage and to professional qualifications. The draft law will lay down the conditions for the conduct of activities and the regulation of professions in the field of architecture and engineering and the provisions relating to the functioning of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. We support the regulation that the Law on the regulation of buildings and the Law on the regulation of premises would relieve all content governing activities in the area of spatial planning and construction of buildings. We support the introduction of mechanisms and instruments to ensure an even higher quality of spatial planning and construction services. The objective is, inter alia, to fully deregulation the conditions regarding the possibility of legal forms of administrative activity in the area of spatial planning and construction of the facility, taking into account the provisions of the Services Directive. It is known that there are no detailed provisions in the current legislation on education, which is the minimum basis for obtaining a professional title. We now have only vague concepts which in practice cause great problems and numerous complaints and administrative disputes in the implementation of the law. However, the decision on the appropriateness of education has so far been left to the competent professional chambers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree that education is defined in more detail in the sub-legislative act within the framework of the statutory criteria. We believe that this will make it easier and faster to decide on the procedures for the award of titles, as decision-making on appropriate education will be automatic, on the basis of a list of diplomas or education. The bill in some way equates the status and position of the Chamber of Interest with the status and position of the Chamber of Professional Affairs. We do know, however, that a chamber which combines regulated professions cannot be regarded as an interest chamber. With a proposal for a law with which the state has set itself a very ambitious task, which, in my opinion, will be difficult to deal with. The public powers that have been exercised so far by the competent chamber should be transferred to the Ministry. It is a matter of setting professional principles in the area of building buildings, overseeing disciplinary infringements by designers and carrying out disciplinary procedures for the conduct of public, architectural and urban competitions, for professional examinations and education. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the Chamber of Architecture and Space and the Engineering Chamber must retain public powers. The Chambers were set up to ensure the expertise and protection of public interest in the area of the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings and the protection of third parties. We believe that this work in both chambers will be done conscientiously and qualitatively. However, we do not want to see a long-term decline in skills and quality in the area of construction, as well as in the integrated engineering and architectural professions. While the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the bill at first reading, it expects us to improve the law later with appropriate amendments at points where this is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Ministry. Today, when it comes to first reading, I will limit myself to some general and more conceptual views on the Proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering. As you know, the law is based on the assumption that all matters relating to the regulation of occupations involved in the regulation of premises, construction, planning and so on, and are now defined in specific laws such as the Construction of Buildings Act, the Law on the Regulation of Space, all these activities should be combined in one specific law and defined, regulated and so on. While this is possible, it is not necessary, it could be the same as before, and this is why no new law is needed. At the same time, the law also imposes and transposes into the Slovenian legal order a specific directive in the field of professional qualifications and in particular their recognition. From this point of view, it can be really good that all of this can then be combined into a law and settled in a special law, the Act on Architecture and Engineering, and the very regulation of this matter in this law do not conflict. Of course, we will oppose the law, such as it is. Simply because the proposal for a law abolishes chambers as public legal persons with public powers. If such a law is to be passed, we do not need chambers. The tasks set out in Article 34 of this Law can be equally well managed and managed by the relevant professional societies before the establishment of the Chambers, as we know them today. Association of Architects of Slovenia, Association of Architects of Ljubljana, Association of Urbanists and Spatial Planners [[I'm a member myself.]] have participated in the tenders, have had and have an ethical code and so on and can carry out all these matters within their normal, traditional and well-developed social activities. We do not need the Chambers anymore, because by this law we abolish the concept of the Chamber as a public legal person and define the Chamber in its 30th Article as a separate, voluntary, interesting and non-profit association and as a legal person of private law, it is only right that in this case I should explain in particular my position towards such a concept of the Chamber, given that I was, by some chance, involved in the establishment and establishment of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia as a public legal person. It is interesting to note this definition, self-employed, voluntary, interesting, non-profit association, which does not also qualify as an element of professionalism, of professionalism, but as an interest in general organisation, which would apply both to ballistic society and to anything else. It does not qualify for what architects, engineers and others are supposed to qualify as a professional activity. In this respect, it must be recognised that the law is consistently written against and for the abolition of the Chambers. By the way, before I explain the reasons why it would be good and why, in my opinion, despite the problems that are with the current chambers, why it is good to have a public meeting, with a mandatory membership. Let me first say that I was at the horror of my colleagues, friends, acquaintances, architects, always very skeptical of the special chamber for architecture and space. I always believe that architects and architects of landscapers, engineering matters belonging to the regulated professions segment, can do well within each section of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. This was also the case in the beginning, but later the engineering architectural section managed to reach its own chamber for architecture and space, and so today we have the Engineering Chamber and the Chamber of Architecture and Space. And worse still, of course, I am also one of those who believes that the spatial planning activity in principle should not be a regulated profession. That at least it is not like the regulated profession of designer - architect and similar matters where they are connected, meeting the specific conditions relating to safety, etc. The activities of architectural or spatial planning are carried out by a number of other professions. By the way, leaders, many of the leaders of the preparation of spatial plans are also geographical and, according to the current law, can only be indirectly qualified for this function, if they have in their study programme a special subject of spatial urban planning, which is unknown, not for what hours, etc. In short, I believe that the spatial planning activity is not supposed to be a regulated profession, at least I think it is and in most countries it is not. Of course, this does not apply to the activity of designing controls and similar things as defined in this law. The basic idea of the Public Engineering Chamber is that those activities, those public powers associated with carrying out a very responsible activity, from countries, should be transferred to such associations to be carried out by the participating engineers, architects, etc. alone in these chambers. At the same time, they are themselves responsible for the exercise of such powers. They organise themselves the education that is necessary, organise themselves and carry out all the things that allow construction and design to be safe, that all the design and interventions in the area are safe, reliable, sustainable, and that public interest is pursued. At the same time, such a form of self-regulation should also define the conditions for carrying out this activity. We came from an understanding of modern society. Modern society is supposed to recognise the relative autonomy of individual spheres, individual social logics, the state should not interfere with this, should expose those rules that allow this social self-regulation to take place, be transparent, be based on professionalism, and be defined and fulfilled by the public interest. In particular, the Chamber is expected to implement the criteria of professionalism before the criteria of bureaucratic commitment. The State should not interfere more with these matters than is absolutely necessary. The truth must be acknowledged that not all solutions were good at this, I can say, the ideal concept of self-regulation of these important regulated professions. Not all the solutions were good, we could also see not only autonomy and self-regulation, which is a value for us liberals in particular, not only professionalism but also, of course, the consequences of what Mićo Mrkaić is a cartel and monopolistic negotiation, that is what it was. However, amendments to the legislation should limit or eliminate this danger, not pour the baby with dirty water from the bath. However, if we look at this law in the context of what we do in the National Assembly, all I can say is that the trend towards limiting the autonomy of individual spheres of social activity is everywhere. We have restricted the powers of the Chamber of Private Protection, you will remember, yesterday in the second reading we restricted the Chamber of Lawyers, today we are considering a law that essentially abolishes the Chamber of Engineers and the Chamber of Architecture and Space as a public legal person, because they lose all public powers. These are coming to the country and the state station, as they say, is the Behemoth, who will be involved in the engineering exams, in the internal rules of the profession. The country is becoming all-powerful. It is sad, however, that if, in restricting their professional powers, security guards and lawyers fought with all their might, at least in the case of sadness, I see that, in the case of the Chamber of Architecture and Space, that is not the case. The fact is, we must admit that the influential part of the younger architects, when you read the Trajet’s website docks, advocates the optional, private, legal nature of the chamber, say that because of the experience they have with the existing chamber. I cannot judge the extent to which their apparent existing architectural and spatial halls are justified or not, I fear that some probably are, but by doing so they renounce the imperative of self-regulation and accept bureaucratic regulation of the conditions of their operation. Once again, I stress that there is no need at all for spatial planning activities to be regulated by the profession and for what they renounce and all of us together give up those who accept or accept the concept of an optional private chamber. In Article 18, the directory of interns shall be maintained by the Ministry. The internship takes three years, if you ask me, at least a year too long, it's a long time. Why should the directory of interns be kept by the Ministry? Why couldn't I take him, at his expense for his own benefit, to the chamber? In Article 19, all professional examinations under this law shall be transferred to the Ministry. Why shouldn't the exams be conducted by the chamber? Why should we not in fact just check from the Ministry or the criteria for carrying out the examinations are conditions and so on, formally appropriate to the conditions, in any event, because the profession is more concentrated in the Chamber than in the Ministry. The Ministry doesn't have this profession. I apologize to my colleagues, the fact is that they know and I know that they already have too few people, that they are already stockpiling their desk files and that once they take on new responsibilities, we will only red tape these responsibilities and not be able to carry them out for a while. The Ministry doesn't have the people to carry out the exams. He'll have to hire them. And where's he gonna hire them from? Of those people who are in the chamber. Bureaucratic regulation instead of self-regulation. The Ministry shall keep a record of the management of the examinations, at the time of obtaining the professional title, the Ministry shall decide and shall keep all the directory of the Ministry. This is, of course, an unnecessary burden for the ministry. If we said by this law: "Let us try to get rid of the law on chambers or the law on building buildings, let us also transfer things that architects, urbanists, engineers themselves must regulate to their regulation in order to get rid of these responsibilities, work and burdens". But now it's all unnecessary. Of course, this solution, as proposed by this law, is, of course, logical, as it is in law. It is because it is not possible for one person to grant these powers at optional chambers. I warn colleagues who thought they would award what on the basis of a competitive market? The examination authority will be granted to Chamber A and the registry of the examinations performed to Chamber B, if this proves to be the case. How now? Either you will, I don't know, all of you, whether you will grant both or three chambers the authority to perform professional examinations and then everyone will join the room where it is easier to perform, for a shade of ease of professional examination. [[...]] We can't play with these things here. And it is clear that if there is no public legal chamber with mandatory membership for those who want to be designers, spatial planners in this case and so on, engineers who do installation, up, down, down, up, down, down, all things. If this is not the case, if it is not the'species' of this organisation with which the expertise is guaranteed, the responsibility of these engineers, then of course it is clear that there is nothing. The Ministry will never have enough men. It is burdened with many other problems and, of course, it will happen that everything will be suppressed on the sidelines. Representation. Where is the criterion that the Chamber is representative if 300 members are included? Why 300, why not 200 or 500 or 100? And what is her representativeness? What else does she have as a representative? To represent the interests of members before the state authorities? Usually, they're lawyers or, I don't know, professional society is enough for that. He doesn't have any powers and he doesn't need any more representation. I could only write public letters. In this respect, this representation is unnecessary because the Chamber no longer represents anything because it does not enforce and implements the public interest segment under the control of the State in the area of construction, space and so on. Article 34, second paragraph, describes the tasks of the Chamber. These tasks, you can read them, can be carried out by existing professional associations and societies, as I have already mentioned, by the company of architects, planners, engineers. Above all, what is most sad and perhaps most fatal is that the role of the Chambers in public calls has been reduced. The Chambers are expected to play a very important role in public procurement, spatial, regulatory, architectural and so on. Why? Because through this chamber, what my colleague Jelinčič would call a public interest, that architecture should not only be useful, but, if possible, also quality and, say, beautiful. This is of course a matter of public discourse, which is nice and what is not nice in architecture, but nevertheless. Although the Chambers will be able to lead public competitions and it will be fun to see if more chambers will lead such a competition, what will happen when they apply for this competition with the projects of architects who belong to another chamber. Who can guarantee that congregational membership will not affect the outcome of the competition? The Ministry of Defense, for example, will build a new army. He's going to ask Chamber A to run a contest for this army for him, for the ministry or with him. This competition may be public or anonymous. And since much is known in Slovenia about architecture and architects, almost everyone in the jury is clear when they see the project, even if it is anonymous, from which school it is and who has signed it. That's why I, by the way, take strictly for public competitions, not for anonymous competitions. And what happens if they say they better get this project because they're about the same, someone in my room as someone in the other room. Don't play with these things! Tell the architects, the engineers, even those who are now at war with the architects, whether they need a chamber or not. If they need it, they need a public defender to whom we can transfer certain powers and ensure that they do not abuse them. If they don't need it, they don't need a room, they have company. And the state, the ministry or anyone will do it, as is now envisaged. Therefore, of course, this law, such as it is, will not be supported. We will, of course, - I hope that other parliamentary groups will support this - propose a public presentation of opinions. Other colleagues from the Engineering Chamber, from the Chamber of Architecture and Space, have art critics, mayors come, let Members come, let those who are behind the compulsory or optional chamber come here and explain to us all. And then we can define ourselves. If you don't want the room, you won't have it. However, if you think that the Chamber is okay, in my opinion, then we must make sure that this Chamber is such as to contribute to the quality, safety, reliability of construction in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And we are going to have a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Koren has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In addition to this proposal for the Act on Architecture and Engineering, I must say that I believe that it is right for this subject to be regulated in a specific law. Let me begin by saying that I think that both chambers have done a lot of positive work so far to establish one fence, one backbone, which has provided a fairly solid, normal work for both chambers. It is true, however, that there have certainly been many irregularities in this area of organisation. Undoubtedly, both chambers, as well as an individual within the chambers, fought hard to ensure as much as possible a piece of cake when adopting legislation and regulations, as much work as possible, but often at the expense of the contracting authorities, that they had longer procedures to have more expensive procedures. But the thing that grieves me about this bill is that not everyone's consensus has been reached on the proposal that we have before us today. In particular, given that we had already heard from the Secretary of State in the opening presentation that a coordinated bill had been prepared first and that it had subsequently changed and led to, I would say, a great deal of dust, particularly between the two chambers. In particular, I would like this law not to ruin everything that has been positively achieved in both chambers. I advocate that improvements be made, that work actually be professional, professional, and above all it is up to us to demand what is really necessary and nothing more. I have another question, and this is: Is the Ministry ready to take over all these tasks to be carried over to the Ministry by this law? Is there enough professional staff there to be able to catch these? The worst part would be that this law would lead to the collapse of both chambers and the Ministry would not be able to carry out the necessary tasks to an appropriate extent. In this first reading, I will support the law, but I would really like it if we are able to come to a coordinated proposal between all partners in the next step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry. Clearly, much effort has been made in this law, since coordination has lasted for quite some time. However, this text clearly divides expertise and social interest. We have to respect both of them. Many opinions were expressed, both professional and perhaps purely Czech. Opinions were also strongly contradictory. I am convinced that it is good that we are also considering this law after a somewhat longer procedure, that we have a first reading and that we are not just starting with a second treatment as usual. And that we can also express our opinions to Members and Members of Parliament today. I believe that this coordination will probably need to continue, so that I think it would be good for us to also make a public presentation of the opinions of the National Assembly, so that the interested public can also come and give their views. At this point, I think it will be necessary to overcome the total car-out situation when two blocks arise and exclude each other. And once again, there was no consensus that could satisfy both wages. It is true that opinions are being fucked in a mandatory or optional membership in this Chamber, but this is only possible at the top of an icy mountain. Thus, optional membership would mean total liberalisation or a completely free market, market treatment of these services, while compulsory membership would also entail powers and, to some extent, could also say, monopolisation in an extreme situation. It's probably not good either. Therefore, it would probably be necessary to continue efforts to find some consensus between the two extremes. On the other hand, it would be good to solve the problem, I do not know if the term is correct, international competitions and perhaps the participation of guest operators in large projects. I don't think there would be any foreign guests here, such as locals, who have special status and who can provide their services already abroad, at home they might not even be able to do so, so I think it's right that we have a first hearing today. However, I am sure that it would be good for us to also make a public presentation of the opinions that we are continuing this process. I believe that such a law, such as the text, is worth supporting by continuing our efforts to improve this text. However, it seems important to me that so far a great deal of effort has been made not to throw it away, so I suggest that we continue this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The Act on Architecture and Engineering lacks a development component, as it is clear that without engineers and technicians there will be no faster development of the Slovenian industry, nor will the faster development of our country. Let me say that in 1999 there were 160 development and research departments in the Slovenian economy, where about 1,400 experts worked, mostly engineers. However, it is very interesting that before 1990, according to the previous system, more than 4,000 development engineers and researchers were employed in the Slovenian economy. Since 1990, there has been a very large decline in the number or developmental engineers. That is why, at the time, we adopted a special law in the National Assembly, which was supporting companies in the development of new technologies, which was a technological toll at the time, and I think it has produced quite a few results. If we look today, the trend has turned upwards. However, not so much thanks to the state itself and the assistance of the governments and ministries on a case-by-case basis, but mainly due to some very successful companies. I would like to mention here examples from the Idrian-Church Industrial Pool, for example, when Hidria has opened a second institute in the last few years, where they will be employed and employed by engineers and top experts who are developing new products and planning a third institute in Lower Idrija. Or the case of the Group Collector, who started building an institute this year with 200 engineers and another year this institute for 200 engineers, has already opened its doors. These are examples that draw, and it is so important that this law on architecture and engineering activities in our country has this development component and has helped other companies to follow the good examples that I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable representatives of the government. The proposal introducing optional membership, i.e. voluntary membership, is good and I fully support it. Public authority may be delegated to the Ministry. The question was highlighted: Will there be any problem if we introduce voluntary membership? Nothing, no problem, can also remain in the Chamber, still, with the concession, the contract retains this scope of tasks, what you also mention is recognition of status, education, some services such as internships, titles and anything. This is not a question of compulsory or optional membership at all. Otherwise, if the chamber works well, it will become a voluntary member. But if it sucks, if it doesn't do anything for them, why do we force people to be mandatory members? Will you force people to drink water if they do not like it, if they are not thirsty, if other drinks are sufficient? That's right. We've had mandatory chambers so far. Do we have them now? Are we satisfied with this? We know where engineering is, where architecture is, what their role is. Was there a reason in the mandatory chambers for us to have such a situation in Slovenia? Did you do this analysis? In short, what we can look at around us shows that there was no good cooperation between architects. I am working to ensure that architects are necessarily involved in important projects, in the creation of landscapes, but not that we have mandatory chambers. It's completely different. Just mandatory membership will change thinking and make it possible for those who are good architects to have more work, and those who are below average and poor to know where they're going to be, where they belong. But there is something else. At the last meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the laws, the bar, the medical room, I don't know what else, everything, everything. It's a purely corporate state. We don't even know what we're doing or what you're doing. I don't support that. When I listen to the visions and strategies of the opposition, how it will shape the government and what its strategic orientations are, I see from this interview a mandatory membership in all the chambers. Should this be a vision of a future country, a future European state with new breaths, new lungs, with mandatory membership? My dears, that's 20 years ago, then it was time for mandatory membership, but now no, there's no need. My dear representatives of the Government, I support these efforts of voluntary membership and also some solutions, are not all good in marriage, I would not specifically mention them, as other Members will be. But as long as you change this and let it become a mandatory membership again, I will not support this law anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It looks like we're really diluted, because otherwise we should be there somewhere on the 15th, or 16th, but still. I would, however, open the question of the Chamber of Engineers and also the Chamber of Architecture and Space. I must say that, despite the current mandatory membership, according to the experience that I have with the Chamber of Architecture and Space in particular, there are many times that we cannot exactly commend ourselves for their way of working, just as we cannot commend ourselves with the way we work, say, in the Bar, where we know that some members who should be punished for their poor work should be punished for their illegal work, because, as project managers responsible, we are, when we talk about architects, we are signing projects that are contrary to national or municipal law. Because I personally know the cases, it happens that, despite the fact that the architect responsible for the project is well aware that the municipal act does not allow the solution proposed by the contracting authority, it does, and then the contracting authority is the one who did it wrong, because he started to make an investment, to build an object, in accordance with what the architect did to him in the project to obtain a building permit or even a project to carry out it, he wrote and signed. When the Chamber of Architecture and Space is informed of this, the architect does not take the license. We know how many people work in this chamber professionally, how many committees they have, disciplinaryly, so, differently and so on. I wonder how the Ministry of Environment and Space will prevent or sanction such behaviour by responsible designers. I'm very interested. Will it employ additional people beyond the quotas allowed by the annual budget? Whether they will hire the same people who now run the chambers to assess or detect violations of individual designers, they will be spatial designers or designers for architecture. In fact, now, for example, a competition has been launched, for which the competition was explicitly written, as to how the composition of the use of space in a given area should be, the space competition has been. The result of the competition is that at least one third of the purpose of this space is wrongly determined, contrary to the former social plan of a congregation. If this is what you expect to be able to master at the Ministry, I can only congratulate you. I think the purpose of this law should be something else. It should be aimed at getting engineering and architecture back together and starting to think seriously about whether what is happening in Slovenian space and what is happening in Slovenian architecture is an honor. I will not say that it is wrong to plan columns in Ljubljana and what else I know, because this is a matter of a decision of the Ljubljana City Council and the Ljubljanaians, who are dealing with individual long-term, medium-term and short-term planning acts at public hearings. While I can say that when it comes to adopted acts and then further planning or design of architectural solutions, it is taken against these acts, then we should ask ourselves where the consciousness and conscience of these designers, architects, planners in the space allowing such failures or perhaps even worse. Therefore, I think that in this law, if we have already taken on the law as a perfect novelty, that we have gathered together from all the laws that deal with the various engineering and architectural activities and put them into one marriage, and we should consider how the ministry intends to do it later, when the law comes into effect, for example, if it comes from the two chambers that we are talking about right now - even this, I must tell you that you are in law, given that you are accustomed to having two chambers, one for architecture and one for space and another for the Engineering Chamber, the two of you have settled in. So I'm warning you, I don't know, I think it would be good to have you writing a plural out there, because we don't know how many rooms there will be. There could be five, there could be six. I don't know if it's 3 times 6 out of 1800 different engineers if they're willing to come to six chambers because all six chambers will have the status of a representative chamber. If we have six chambers, which chamber will be the one that will make up the committee to conduct architectural and spatial competitions. Which chamber will that be? Will you go with a call for a more favorable chamber or what? It is said that when you look for a particular room for each contest, you will force the contracting authority to look for a real room with an invitation to tender. Whether to extend the acquisition of competitive solutions and later the production of spatial acts and architectural projects themselves, or to extend any such project for another three to six months. Sometimes you're thinking about the time dimension. The Spatial Planning Act has led to spatial planning for an additional six months to one year for the adoption of a municipal spatial plan or a municipal detailed spatial plan. You can see that now. And for this reason, I think that in such laws that introduce a new dimension into service activities, it is necessary to think carefully about what this will mean in practice. Have you done a simulation of individual situations? What happens when we have to do competitions? What are you going to do when you need people on these committees? What do you think the architects and designers and landscape planners will tell you with their knowledge that they will be coming to you in a series of committees leading the examinations for the professional modernisation of architects and other designers. I think you'll find that hard to come by. And for this reason, I think that taking on such responsibilities at the Ministry, while counting the number of additional people and also the costs you will have to pay, taking away all the public powers of the Chambers. But if you're going to grant them later with the concession, as we've heard before, that's a great idea, but I'm asking, what if there's six chambers? In what way will you grant the concession, so that that chamber, which will be cheaper, will receive the concession for the award of professional qualifications?Oh, my God! I think that we have come too far and that it should be carefully considered that so radically and without proper consideration simply goes to the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber. And I'm not nostalgic about compulsory membership. I believe that if the matter is carefully thought out and well done, it is not necessary that it must be compulsory membership, but it must also be an appropriate quality of the prepared act, which foresees all possible complications and complications. The fact that after 6 months of error has been determined against the laws, and after 15 years of error and so on, of course we have a series of corrections and corrections to the amended acts. And I think that this Parliament really doesn't deserve it anymore, as we do with the Acts of the Ministry of Justice, to constantly correct and amend legislation, to do so in the field of environment and space. And finally, I'd just like to say one more thing. When you think about how to bring together the entire design and engineering profession, you might also think that there are some samples in the European Union, after all there are 27 of us, and between the continental and island ways of regulating things, now I am speaking in general, there are big differences and we are once again on the continent. There are a number of cases of compulsory membership in the Houses of Members, the old members of the European Union, and I do not think we can say that this is obsolete, that it is a belt, that it is a matter of socialism and that I know what else. This is a pure flossule, compulsory membership is a typical continental practice in European chambers, and I think it would be nothing special if we continued to have something like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you, President. Today, this debate is somehow an indication of how we all obviously get to know all the areas of our work or our social or professional work. And as it seems to be more than the significance of this law, it is important what we say about people who are subject to this law. People who are objects are architects and engineers. And to talk about how our architecture sucks, how the engineering cadre doesn't work, of course, is one big lie, because it takes a little look around and see what the architects have created, what the engineers or engineers have built, what are the most demanding engineering objects with which Slovenia likes to boast. Today, however, we speak here as if this profession could not do otherwise. Obviously, one of the Members, who has so bitterly advocated optional membership, has difficulty having an architect or an engineer make a wrong garage, and therefore considers it necessary to bring everything into the voluntary sphere. It forgets that it is a specific knowledge, a specific area, that these are so-called regulated professions that are recognised everywhere in Europe and the world and have some special status and status. Of course, we are a country that has long forgotten these regulated professions as an imperative, and we are all mixed together in a basket in which we are all about the same and we all have to work roughly the same. And that is why it is not possible to attach to those who feel that it is so easy to break the current organisation in the compulsory chamber, because there is a specific cadre in this chamber. A specific person who must take responsibility by self-management in this institution for how he manages it. But you can't take responsibility if you don't control the whole process through which architects or engineers have to go, from when you graduate from school to becoming an intern, to formally meeting all the conditions for managing the most demanding objects, and all the other elements that change in life. And that's why I think it's so easy to talk about how it's not worth talking about these people, about this institution and this organization that's making room for us to talk about something that's positive, not just negative. It is clear that Slovenia, as a space of two million inhabitants, a small area, cannot create a hyperproduction of world-renowned architects. We'll probably never have Courvosier or Gaudi, probably not Hundertwasser, and so on. But we had Plečnik, Paviania, we have Ravnikar, we have Podrecco, we have Mark Mušič. So we have known names and you must be a guide and an example of how our organisation in this area should be set. Not those who do not meet the standards, not those who play by the law and see no need to create for themselves and for the successors or for us and for us, and for us, for us. And here's the problem of shutting down the chamber, at least in the case of architecture, I can speak, which, after so many birth problems, has come to life in four years. Just look at her website! Look at the content of this website, what it discusses, what it discusses, how it regulates relations between its members, how it responds to developments in society, how it communicates and how it affects decisions that policy must take, how the government should take, how the rest of the chambers take. If anyone knew that, I'd say, "Damn it, maybe it's just doubtful!" And I am pleased that some members of the coalition have also expressed their doubts, which shows that it might actually be possible to carry out a public debate in which these details, which we probably do not know how to tell the politicians today, even less can be properly explained, clarified, and perhaps there will be a change. Changes especially because we listened to this conversion that occurred at the time of the adoption or preparation of this law. These are already known facts that the law was based on the initiative of the architectural and engineering chambers. It was based on their initiative, and from the time the Ministry began to listen, it cooperated with them, for two years it was coordinated, but the matter came into the procedure in the Government or somewhere in the Government completely turned to itself and came in such a form that it was unacceptable for these people who lived with the law - to ensure a different position and status to themselves and to us. And when Mr Bricel in his prediction or in his introduction talked about how the law was formed, it seems to me that he was trying to minimize this effect or that change: "The regret was part of the profession opposed a partial change." Mr Bricel: It is not part, but the majority of the profession is not a partial change, but it is a major change. And now this minimisation can be taken into account for your use and can be used in your explanations. But the facts are different. And I don't know, you probably forgot that Minister Podobnik is 10. 3. At a meeting with the architectural chamber, I stated myself that the matter had escaped them and that the law would need to be re-examined. Those are his words. I don't know if Mr. Sponik has checked anything, but the Minister has been missing something a number of times. Thus, he failed to deal with environmental taxes and failed to deal with the RUH, and he also missed out on the floods. But there's still time. If he missed something to fix us, we didn't have any influence there. Here is our opportunity to make the law such that we will not be ashamed of it, that we will not remain before Europe and be red because we will, I will say, an island in some organisation, which in most countries is such that it is a compulsory chamber, that it is given powers to carry out certain public functions - I, too, cannot imagine how you will take over and take care of the tasks that you should perform at the Ministry alone or also by transferring certain powers. At best, you're probably not capable physically, professionally, but I don't want to say that there aren't people among you who can do this, but they're probably not wizards who can do all this. For this reason, it is justified to think on the opposition side as well as on the coalition side so that we do not make the law, that is to say, suitable for further consideration; or, if we do it, at least we will have a public debate and there should be, perhaps, a realization that it is a major part of the profession, a major part of the public, a policy that cannot and cannot fall into the sense that everything is wrong in the field of architecture in this country. We have mistakes, mistakes should be sanctioned, mistakes should be recorded, but this is not a matter of policy, it is a matter of those who create conditions that these mistakes should not happen. As far as I am concerned, I will gladly support and agree to a public debate. However, if this is a clear assurance, then I will vote against the fact that the law is suitable for further discussion by both you and some of you who have been preparing the law, as we have to vote here today or tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u151	Your Honors are here! Thank you for your word. In the Lipa Group, we are convinced that today, in 2008, we should no longer be negative about accepting the term of compulsory or voluntary membership. In our firm conviction, the mandatory membership, regardless of the organisational form of the individual chamber, survived the form of association or the directive after the merger. With this title, we welcome the possibility of voluntary membership, since, at least in our firm belief, voluntary membership reflects the legislator's position that future members are themselves able to decide whether they will be associated in the form of an organisational chamber or in the form of an organisation of a chamber. In my firm belief, it is also not right to try to preserve the system, the administrative system, from the past history. It may be within the framework of individual societies that these societies, or chambers, or whatever they call these organisational forms, would succeed solely and solely for the sake of themselves. So, through the funding that follows the mandatory membership. In the context of the Lip Group, we will therefore support all those activities under the first reading legislative procedure, which seek to ensure that the membership of the Chamber is voluntary. So it not only gives you a feeling, but actually gives content to potential members and thus their competence to decide whether to see interest in this type of association or not. However, the Ministry of State, which is watching over the above-mentioned law, must only be aware that, in so far as it assumes powers from the exercise of the existing chamber, it will, of course, have to carry out these tasks both in a positive and in a negative form, i.e. in the burden of financing. As far as we are concerned in the context of the Lip Group, we will, of course, support the idea of voluntary membership in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! With regard to the law, there has been a lot of debate in public, especially after 17 years of autonomy, I am surprised that somehow we do not actually know how to move from the former system to the new system. The essential difference is that to me. At one time, there was only one mandatory party on the political scene and ways of merging, ways of working in the various areas that are still drawing back from then, in a way, in my opinion, are controversial. Even some - well, the assembly system was established after independence, that is true. However, it has an extremely strong backdrop of political structures based on the past system and does not advocate compulsory membership and only homogeneous organisation in this segment, but has advocated and advocated this in other segments. We could have tried this on our skin in other areas as well. The basic principle of each association must be volunteering if we live in democracy, and in particular in areas that have an impact on the final user, that is on the citizen. And I think that the Act on Architecture, Engineering is one such law, which does not serve only so-called experts who can unite in this context, acquire some professional competence if I simplify the matter, and thus dictate the environment and conditions under which we ordinary citizens can then exercise or live every day. Here I would mention only the acquisition of different consents for projects that each person faces, especially during certain periods of life, and we know that through a very rigid structure - which I think this moment is existing - actually create some kind of lobby that does not allow one of the basic principles in force in the European Union, this is free movement of services. That is why I support the position already put forward by my colleague Mikolić that basically each merger must be voluntary and also on this segment should be voluntary. However, we advocate that the adoption of new legislation should not happen in order to create a vacuum in which we would then receive our time and period of speculators or users would be in danger of being unprofessional. We therefore support the view that, despite voluntary membership and, in principle, clearly, the delegation of powers to the Ministry will allow for a transitional period until all the conditions for or awarding some type of concessions to the Chambers that will meet the criteria, or to provide the same or equal quality services on the part of the Ministry or other bodies, of course, ensure the continuity of the provision of these services at the existing Chamber. I myself believe that if mandatory membership were as positive as it is now mentioned by many debaters, then I would probably be myself, at least as I imagine, as an engineer with a degree for over 24 years may at least ever be invited to such a chamber. I think that such a chamber should then take care of some way of connecting all the staff in Slovenia, which would belong in such a circle, but not to create some criteria that are written only in a certain circle on the skin and mean, in fact, the end for the end user, some fact on which it is very dependent also on the financial salary. I therefore advocate that such a law be supported, supported and adopted in this sense, as I have said before, to ensure the continuity of the professional work for those areas which are now dependent on the work of the Engineering Chamber or other Chambers and that it is possible, as stated here, to provide for certain conditions, and that a certain period of time may be allowed to re-organise the Chambers or the existing Chambers to re-register the members on the basis of a voluntary approach and then be given powers which can be further exercised under the supervision of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The President, the debate has taken place and I am particularly pleased that the president of the Committee on Environment and Space, who has now come to the Chamber, has mentioned the possibility of a public presentation of opinions and I think that if the President and the Vice-President agree that this will almost certainly be the case. I am so pleased that we will discuss this further, not only with each other, but with all those involved. I would just say that I won't be too long, this idea where an ideological "guy" is all loaded up, then a colleague has already stepped down, one client - one chamber, I have to say: the chamber was set up at the end of the 1990s. Not in the '60s, '70s! And more importantly, during the previous regime, strong, independent, independent professional organisations were undesirable. Such a chamber could not be established. She stayed and somehow survived in a good and bad bar. The Engineering Chamber in the previous regime could not be established, it would be too independent, independent, too professional, and engineering was then part of a generally useful social activity in this wider vocabulary, although socialist different self-government. Don't go blind! The establishment of the Engineering Chamber means the emancipation of the profession and at the same time the recognition of its professional and social responsibility - in good and bad. And once again, as I said myself, it doesn't mean that this chamber or both chambers - the engineering and the operating room - have always done it well; sometimes not. That's what you have to say. And around voluntary, compulsory membership: we have different chambers and we have different chambers of different systems. In the United Kingdom, "royal societies" usually play a significantly bigger and more important role than any chamber in this world. Or the Association of English Urban Planners is significantly more important than will ever be the Slovenian Chamber because it comes from their nature, tradition of development, legal order, etc. In Germany you cannot move in Bavaria past the Engineering Chamber in good and bad. Germany and Bavaria are examples, I could say, of your ideology and your view of the world, if I'm not mistaken. Therefore, the issue of compulsory membership is a matter of public authority. If we want to organise some things to transfer public powers here, we must also recognise - not all architects, engineers, so not this opportunity for you to have - this is a mandatory membership in these chambers: responsible engineers, designers, supervisors, auditors, not engineers who have not done this exam. It is probably also a problem whether all architects or only those who will now take the state exam at the ILO can join these chambers. Just you or everyone? And it is clear in this respect that the idea of corporateism lies on the other side, not on the other side of us. By the way, what is corporateism? It is precisely that the state in the civil sphere, in the sphere of autonomy and social responsibility, burns all of itself: exams, directories, curricula, etc., everything it does as a state service and then - this is a great deal of corporateism - with concessions it distributes back. And once again, I warn you, one of them is going to give a license for the directory, for the other for the exams, or for the rest of us. And then, once again, I warn you, you will have a chamber where you will be able to perform exams at one or the other chamber if they grant concessions - because they do not intend to do so, by the way, this is not in the proposal. They're so smart at the Ministry, they didn't write it. But when you talk about some concessions, of course it's not and it can't be in marriage. It is therefore clear that if we decide on a proposal from the Ministry, this is the abolition of the Engineering Chamber and the Chamber of Architecture and Space in the sense of a public, legal and private chamber exercising public powers. That is why we do not need a chamber because we have quite a well-organised society and a recent establishment or an engineering academy is about to be established. That's what the debate is about. But I think it's right that we don't go into this ideological story, but by publicly presenting our opinions, we invite everyone here to tell us that we see these differences and see if we should do anything or do nothing about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u156	Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u157	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am glad that the debate has evolved as it has. Already in that introductory part, I have mentioned that it would be good to have a public debate, and I see that if we agree on something, we are, in fact, just in order to be able to be interested in the public, the real architects, engineers, will also tell themselves, so that it will have some meaning in the face, not that it will be two monologues, but that it will be a real dialogue. At the same time, I would touch on some matters that have disturbed me precisely with regard to compulsory membership. So, I quickly looked at how many Slovenian architects were enrolled in the Chamber, I think there are about 440, of course, then we can also quickly calculate how this number 300 came to be for a representative chamber. Now, either one chamber or more, this is also a big question because we do not know how this membership could move from one to the other, how the powers or licences from one would apply to the other, how it would be with a double, triple, quadruple or six-member membership. The fact that compulsory membership is very much tied to some powerful rulers, to strong state systems, of course, is out. Strong rulers have never wanted strong states, but they have always been torn apart, usually according to the principle of 'divide et impera', the right parts, divided and then ruled: one give something more, the other a little less, and then turn the matter around, so that there is some kind of self-regulation, which is more than positive things, of course, than envy and opposition. Thus, it is possible to control, of course, also relatively more intellectually informed people. The third thing we have heard is that of course this is not European. I must say that European institutions and European legislation are very much emphasizing the importance of the work of housing chambers in providing quality services across Europe. And so in the future, obviously also in view of those documents coming from the European institutions, these Houses of Representatives will become increasingly important. Article 37 of the Internal Market Services Directive clearly defines professional organisations as the most important partners in the preparation of the European Code of Conduct, which is considered an important tool in ensuring the quality, quality and quality of services in the internal market. Also what the Directorate-General for the Internal Market and Services did last May 30th to August 15th, professional organisations - here are the thought chambers - asked to provide information on their codes of conduct, whether they already use them or are in preparation. In the Commission's working paper on the quality of services, which describes the result of this consultation, the Commission points out that one of the less known but essential characteristics of the Services Directive is a chapter that addresses the quality of services and seeks to ensure a high quality of services by promoting, inter alia, self-regulation. And so on. This also applies to the Treaty of Lisbon because it obliges European institutions to bring together open, transparent, regular dialogue with representative associations, such as housing chambers, and to carry out extensive consultations. Of course, it is now very clear that in Europe, the Chambers play an important role and are considered important partners of the Member States and also of the European institutions. And as developments have shown in recent years, as well as the legislation and declarations and actions of the European institutions, the importance and role of the Chambers will be increased in the context of, or in the context of, the Treaty of Lisbon. Such an effective and democratic chamber, which then represents the profession, what people are called for, can be a qualified partner not only in this national state view but also in the European public interest. So much for all those who speak of the non-Europeanity of existence and the meaning of the existence of these chambers. On the other hand, these professions, which in fact bring the greatest added value, need to be trusted more than they have been entrusted with so far, more than in the previous system, which has now been fabricated in some way as to how it was invented by the Chambers - but all people have the right to decide their relations within these smaller social networks, and if this is true for the entire nation, why this should not apply to architects and engineers. What's worse, but they're more dangerous to this authority or what the hell?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Well, in Slovenia we have really very different halls and a lot of them in every law relating to each chamber, talking about whether compulsory membership is appropriate or more appropriate optional membership. I think that, however, we should also consider adopting a roof law on chambers and then organising individual sectors. We have already seen major changes in this mandate, particularly at the Economic Chamber. Of course, there was much less hearing, for example, at the Agricultural Chamber, how to arrange it, although it is very interesting to monitor these latest events before the elections in this Chamber, when farmers actually leave the Council of Chambers when they adopt the statute of organisation. Which means, in fact, those who need a chamber most disagree with what is happening in it. Well, a number of open dilemmas. And, of course, this law on architectural and engineering activities is one of those that raises a number of questions in this area, many dilemmas. I think that really would be far the greatest progress precisely in that we have in front of all these solutions the fact that politics must still withdraw from the assembly system to the greatest extent possible and that in fact the expertise is the one that connects the chambers for individual professions. Even if this proposal for the Act on Architecture and Engineering remains optional, it is necessary to ask why this is not the case in other professions in Slovenia. And this is one of those dilemmas and issues that we should certainly clear up before we finally decide how to organise this activity, but this is an extremely important activity. But it is an invasion of space, it is about how to build, how to make an individual investment, how to eventually also monitor the facility, when it is already built, that there are no problems to make it work as well as that we really have a sense of as much security as possible, both in space and in the facility. We also talked a lot about this in the construction law, but we can very quickly find out that there was very little hearing about giving more opportunities to the profession, to include in the planning and implementation procedures of individual projects, and actually there was very little listening to this topic, and actually everything was trying to somehow reduce or reduce procedures in the way that the investor decides what he is going to build. A very dangerous game, and if we add to this the fact that we also want to change the choir organisation in this area in a quick, incomplete way, then I think that in the future there can be very big problems in Slovenia, especially in the safety and use of the facilities. This is something that certainly today and today's technology must not be allowed in any way, especially because Slovenia is finally faced with extremely large, important investments in all areas. Thus, this moment is also extremely important for the development of engineering and in general for the development of a profession that can really be further developed or achieved through the implementation of all these investments. If we stay on the theory that there are no investments, this expertise is also significantly smaller than it is currently possible to achieve in Slovenia, due to all these strong investments that we have. Parliamentary organisation and organisation [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I stress that it must be as separate from policy as possible, so that the professional exams that the Ministry of the Environment is supposed to have are not a good solution. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you. He wants mag. You shave another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u161	Honorable President, Honorable National Assembly. First of all, thank you very much for the thorough debate. In the beginning, let me just tell you what our understanding of your comments or comments is. First of all, I would like to say honestly that in our reasoning or introduction to the law, it has been frankly said and described a process that we believe that, together with the representatives who have also followed the impulses that have been observed at the time of the drafting of the law, and also in this proposal before us today, we have actually presented in two possible forms, which we consider - and the spirit of today's debate supports - it is imperative to define, including the public presentation of opinions, and to choose the option that is of quality for Slovenia, because others as quality Slovenia do not need it, and to choose it in accordance with the consensus that the National Assembly will also choose at the end. Both options are before us with arguments for and against, and we are pleased that the spirit of the debate has in fact confirmed the proposal that we have accompanied with this introduction. However, if you allow me just one more thing, I would like to say once again more clearly that the Ministry of Environment and Space, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, do not deny or even want to eliminate those good practices that were recognized as good or quality in the planning of space or engineering and architecture solutions at that time. However, we all know, and the debate has also shown that there are still some reserves here or that we are at a time that requires significantly more effective cooperation with other professions as well, and in particular with more effective cooperation between administrations and civil society associations. The partnership that is needed for quality solutions is in fact also built into the spirit of the law itself, which the state, in partnership with housing organisations, is supposed to choose in order to make it as effective as possible. Spatial development is, in fact, the foundation, as the esteemed debaters have said, that determines our quality of living. And here let me remind you only that we are ahead of the break and challenge that we must now and our generation must face. If I only mention the climate and energy package, we are ahead of the challenge, when we have to, this moment to design energy-efficient buildings, neighbourhoods, cities, sustainable traffic management, to find architectural solutions both locally and nationally. And to mention only the third content, all of this, according to the fact that it is safe from floods and, I would like to highlight this, before water runs out. All three of these, for example, are called by different cooperation, following holistic solutions, which today, hand to heart, we do not have enough, if any. And as a result, we have proposed solutions or a proposal for a law that allows for more effective organisation in this area, of course, with all sincere purpose, with as effective a public debate as possible, including a presentation of opinions that such a solution and an organisational form can be found. It doesn't hold to the fact that we're doing this in our head or that we're doing it all at once. On the contrary, an analysis has been prepared that is accessible to all. We have analysed not only in Europe, but, however, with mandatory membership, yes or no. This is the case for architectural chambers, for example, 16 in Europe mandatory from 27th and engineering 12 again between 27th. In short, about half-and-half, and also that, I think it reflects today's debate. And here we want a decision, and by no means, once again, I reject the instigation that we have done something that we would like to destroy, but vice versa, to upgrade and in consensus after the debate in the National Assembly. And one more thing, as regards the criteria, which chamber, if the option of multiple chambers is chosen and in accordance with your decision. We believe that the criterion can only be of quality competitiveness. And this is what we want to establish, the quality of integration, the quality that is in the interest of public interest, which is traceable and which is the only criterion for choosing a merger and partnership for a country that can be compulsory or awarded by concession to a chosen chamber, as well as some third form. However, as has been said and said in the explanatory statement, with transparency, with a reduction, if you want, of administrative barriers as well as of anything related to - once again - solutions that are in the interest of public interest, which is certainly the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow, Thursday, 24 April 2008 in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. And we're going to 25. POINT OF THE DAY, FIRSTLY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF PUBLIC OFFICERS, IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of fourteen Members and Members with the first signed Mr Mirano Potræ requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Virant, Minister of Public Administration, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! All recent amendments to the Public Servants Act in recent years have focused on strengthening the efficiency of public administration and on improving the status of employees in the public administration of the status of employees in the private sector. We estimate that there is a need to be as much interference in the administration as possible with the classic management principles of the private sector and that there is no major reason for distinguishing between the status of employees in the public administration and the status of employees in the economy. In this context, we have also prepared this amendment of the Law on Public Servants, whose main point is, as you probably know, the abolition of professional examinations for appointment to official posts in public administration. So we abolish the obligation of professional examination for those who, as beginners or later, after certain years of their careers in the economy or elsewhere, come to work in public administration. With professional examinations, which have traditionally been in the practice of Slovenian public administration for many years, we do not have the best experience. We estimate that they did not give true added value in relation to all costs and the loss of time they represented for employees, i.e. public servants, candidates and those who, as examiners of these exams, conducted or verified knowledge. The professional exam is probably too bureaucratic to gain professional competence. It is much better for those who are new to the administration either as beginners or after a few years of careers in the economy or elsewhere, to prepare vocational training modules that will be adapted to their jobs. And those who come to the board of directors are also eager for such knowledge. Young people, beginners come to work in public administration through traineeships. We have preserved this form because it has proved to be very useful. Through traineeships, they are trained to work, through traineeships, which is a form of temporary employment, even acquire or traineeships represent a kind of human resource, through which candidates who are the most suitable, best, most appropriate and then take them to work for an indefinite period of time. These people, these candidates are basically quality personnel, because the demand for administration services is relatively high, relatively large. So these personnel are quality and in such personnel, such people are not going or no point in obtaining, forcing them to perform professional examinations, but it is much more appropriate to prepare a range of training modules that they can then choose for themselves or in agreement with their bosses. Let them acquire the skills needed to carry out their work in their workplace, not that, say, a police officer or a customs officer carries out an expert examination in which he needs to know in detail the European Charter of Local Self-Government and so forth. That is said, let us devote ourselves, invest energy, and pay attention to the content that is important for the quality of their work. The abolition of the professional examinations will, of course, bring about considerable savings. By the way, they're going to take you to large numbers. In 2005, 3381 were carried out, in 2006 - 2424, in 2007 - 1997. The exam costs EUR 176, which means saving about EUR 350 000 a year. We will also have a staff surplus at the Administrative Academy and we will be able to use this surplus for some other priorities, such as the establishment of a call centre that will start operating on May 15th, as anticipated. So a call center that will allow every citizen to get all the information about administrative services in one number. I conclude with this major amendment. The law brings some minor corrections, such as the possibility that those staff members who are actively involved in the presidency who do not have time to take leave at present during this period will benefit from their remaining leave or leave surplus in the second half of this year, which would otherwise not be possible under the Labour Relations Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u164	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u165	Your Honors are here! In the context of the Lip Group, we have spent quite some time dealing with this law, but not because of its content, which is undoubtedly not a difficult content, but because of the fear that the content law does not accompany the underbelly, which would be hidden to us for a while. Allow me to point out from this title those things that we think are either partially problematic or open questions are raised around it. The applicant, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, submits on the basis that this is a major change in the dimension of the abolition of the professional examination and the enforcement of compulsory training from content that has so far been more or less related to the subject of the professional examination or to the area of work for an individual public official. We can agree at the principle level with the Minister's theory, which he presented a few moments ago, that the existing system within the public administration is too bureaucratic and that, of course, this so-called bureaucratic administration within the public administration would be limited to such an intervention, which I believe is too much and that we all probably agree on it. This raises a number of questions that I think have already been raised several times by the professional public to the Minister, namely: for the first time, based on the arguments in force in 2001, in the context of the reform of public administration, two principles were raised in 2001 above all. This is the first time the principle of professional neutrality and the secondly the principle of political neutrality of the administration. From this title, I ask the Minister in the course of the debate: how will he assess - he is also told by many that the analysis has not been carried out - has shown a new dimension of the so-called mandatory content training management. From this title, I am particularly interested, or we, in the context of the Lip Group, in particular, in the pursuit of the best possible law at last, what the same Minister, namely Mr Virant, said in 2001, when he was still Secretary of State and when he defended with all his authority the system that he is changing today as Minister. In other words, at the time of the adoption of the Law on Public Servants, he argued that the professional examination, i.e. the element that we are modifying on a proposal from the Government today, was a condition for the performance of the profession of a public servant in terms of the amount of knowledge that a public servant must have, not to satisfy his superiors, but in particular in terms of meeting the needs of those citizens and citizens who are only referring to a specific civil servant. The next of the dilemmas, which has been repeatedly exposed and which we are also allowing in the context of the Lip Group, to emerge in practice, is a novelty or novelty compared to the previous one, so that with a possible elastic dictatorship, as proposed as a key criterion in selecting individual candidates, it can apply the criteria of political affiliation or political preference. Personally, I'm not saying either. However, I would like to have the Minister's answer to these two key questions, which, in my opinion or in my firm belief, are necessary to answer them. As regards some of the other changes that the Minister has also identified as minor, less important, and we agree, this is support, as regards job vacancies, where the novel provides for the employer's conduct in the event that the candidate selected at the public tender does not conclude a contract of employment. We welcome the decision of the Government, either in the context of such an option or at a time when the selected candidate would not subsequently decide to leave, whether the employer or the one who has concluded the call will be more elastic or more likely to act more quickly in the area of recruitment. As it is said, we are most interested in the Lip Group - for the first time, given that neither the analysis has been exposed nor the analysis, the second time the eligibility for change is not exaggerated, i.e. the abolition of the professional examination and the consequent enforcement of compulsory content training - the position as author, the so-called Public Servants Act of 2001 and now from 2008. So where are the greatest shortcomings that have led the same person in another function to a completely different way of thinking. At the same time, I would very much like to hear the Minister's belief that this is not so that the amendment of the law is subject to the introduction of political recruitment within the framework of public servants. I sincerely hope and believe that the Minister will deny or justify the impreciseness of the allegations, as they were in the context of individual professional debates or statements in connection with this law. This also depends on the support of the Member of Parliament and the two Members of the Lip Group of the said Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! It is an extremely complex system, namely, for public servants, the public sector, which employs more than 150,000 people and in which billions of euros are spent on salaries alone. And that's why the system deserves serious treatment. Slovenia did not have this area regulated systematically until a few years ago, but individual areas were treated independently. This was especially true of wages. The basic law was adopted in 2002. During this time, a lot has changed and the legal framework must follow. The proposal for amendments has the tendency to regulate some areas so far not sufficiently clearly defined, to simplify things or to make the changes required by practice in order to remedy shortcomings or to avoid possible problems. Systemic solutions need to be prepared. In doing so, it should also be pointed out that the new amendment follows all the principles of the public service system, which were the basis for the drafting of the basic law five years ago. At that time, elements such as stability, transparency and efficiency of this large system were exposed. The main purpose of each system is people, i.e. employees, who must not be forgotten. The highest value of people is knowledge that needs to be complemented through the training system; in particular, it is important here that it is a permanent system. The new amendment repeals the obligation to carry out a professional examination for appointment in title, and instead provides for compulsory training from the fields of staff and some have also been included in the content of the current examination. This also applies to public servants who are employed for a fixed period of time. The advantage of the new way is that it would no longer be a one-time training, such as a professional examination, but that officials would first undertake induction training and then acquire knowledge through permanent training. In this way it is also possible to improve the organisation and implementation of the training system itself through the relevant operators. There is also an obligation to acquire management and management skills for the highest positions. Such a large system uses many different records, which are sometimes not compatible and different authorities do not know about them at all and each organizes its own. The new proposal also intervenes in this area in the sense of a warning from the information officer and will remove the possibility of collecting and interfering with data without an appropriate basis. The employment of athletes and sports workers in the state administration is more clearly defined, which means promoting high-quality sport and is an example of good cooperation with institutions in charge of high-level sport. It is very important that the content defines job search in the event of termination, as well as the possibility of obtaining a higher title in case of relocation to a more demanding job. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that this proposal represents another step towards a more successful and transparent system, and we therefore support the proposal submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u169	Mr. President, Mr. Minister. The Public Servants Act was adopted in July 2002 and applied in July 2003. The arguments for the preparation and adoption of the Law on Public Servants were very large, and there was also an argument among the multitudes that we had not had a valid examination for public servants at the time. It has been pointed out, I quote: The current regime, unlike foreign service systems, does not provide an appropriate system of professional examinations as a filter for entry into public administration. Given that we have a relatively open employment system, which is appropriate in view of the smallness of the country, it is necessary to ensure stricter standards for entering the administrative career. The current system, this was a speech in 2002, does not require a professional examination for everyone who first took a job in public administration, but only for those who perform an apprenticeship in the administration. This is bad and does not provide a high level of difficulty." This is what we said in 2002 and Dr Virant, the current Minister of State, in his capacity as Secretary of State, stressed, among other things, the following arguments for the new service system: "Through the system of selection, training and completion, promotion and awarding, ensure greater expertise of the administration. Ensure greater stability of the administration and reduce the negative impact of the political changes on its functioning, ensure a system of selection of officials based on the most objective criteria of professional competence and, in the case of the highest official positions, avoid the overriding of political criteria over the criteria of professional competence. Raise standards for entry into an official career through public competitions and compulsory professional examinations and establish a policy of horizontal training and complementarity in public administrations in areas of strategic importance for public administration." All these starting points are fully supported and supported in 2002. They were also supported by the current ruling coalition, and to a large extent also by the most influential Members of the Democratic Party. However, in this mandate, only after a good year of implementation of the Law on Public Servants, following a reduced procedure in February 2005, have we decided to extend the possibility of discharge for non-criminal reasons for officials appointed on a political basis to the Secretary-General of the Ministry and the Head of the Authority within the Ministry, and the discharge period of three to six months has also been extended. These were therefore not criteria that ensured greater expertise and less politicisation. And that's probably the reason why the Constitutional Court ruled that they were not constitutionally compatible. The next major amendment of the Law on Public Servants was re-declared in November 2005, which is after 9 months. At that time, there were many changes in the section governing the professional exams. In his explanation, the applicant noted that, I quote: "In the course of the professional examinations for appointment in practice, there have been many problems as a result of the determination of the large size and complexity of the contents of the exam areas. With amendments and additions," says the proponent, "these problems are resolved in 2005 and the recognition of individual content corresponding to the content required under the professional examination for appointment in the title is further regulated." End of quote. However, this novel did not follow the constitutional decision I mentioned earlier. By a third amendment to the Act of March 2007 by a new Article 33a, the President was empowered to decide that, in the event that he has information on grounds of suspicion that a public servant is abusing the right of restraint from work up to 30 days due to sickness or injury, or that it is possible to abuse the right to reimbursement of transport costs for work and work, to exercise control over the exercise of those rights, to conclude a written contract and to authorize a legal or natural person, in accordance with the law governing detective activity. In order to ease this measure slightly, the chairman must inform the public servant before signing the contract. We did not agree with the above amendments, and we thought they were reducing accountability in public administration, but not increasing it, but primarily reducing the responsibility of the leaders. We have therefore, by the ruling coalition, come up with proposals which, on the one hand, have abolished the obligation to carry out a professional examination for appointment in title and, on the other hand, have granted public authority to the providers of training, education and other professional tasks. In the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, the abolition of professional examinations means a reduction in the standards of knowledge and cannot be replaced only by training and completion in full. We are also moving away from the practice of the Member States of the European Union, which are familiar with examination checks, which are sometimes intended not only for the conclusion of a working relationship but also for any progress. We do not object to a proper analysis of the conduct of examinations between lecturers and interrogators and candidates or listeners, and on the basis of these findings, the content of the expert or state examination is then prepared or refined. However, we are opposed to the fact that the Government, by means of calls or public orders, is making a strong leap forward and making decisions without any serious analysis. Look, before the adoption of the law on identity cards, we have been publishing the invitation to tender a few months earlier. In the new Law on Public Roads, we publish the call in early April, and we also decide in the granting of powers to universities before decisions are taken in the law, which also applies to the role and tasks of the administrative academy, which changes its structure and functioning, without the law giving different powers already being adopted. This is not good, since without relevant analyses to justify the abolition of professional examinations, these professional examinations are suspended, without being known for the reasons, not all for the consequences, nor for the quality of lectures, nor for the implications of the budget. All of this should be presented by the proposer before deciding on such a decision. This is why, in our opinion, it is an unjustified abolition of the professional examinations, including the Law Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also the Legal and Legislative Service. However, as often or normally, the opinion of the profession by the Government and the ruling coalition is not particularly important. Notwithstanding the fact that we support in Social Democracy that the employment of top athletes and their trainers in the state administration is properly regulated, we cannot fully support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u170	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u171	Dear Mr. President! Mr. Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the conclusion of the Ministry of Public Administration or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the system of public servants in the Republic of Slovenia has been in place for the sixth year and that in all these areas it is necessary to take into account the changes that have occurred or have been made in other ministries. The conclusion that the self-implementation of the system in practice shows some of the problems or shortcomings it has to address is also acceptable. But this is where things actually end. The question that always opens is how to take this into account, how to take it into account, and how to react. And so we received a preliminary proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Servants, which so devilishly hides matters in detail. Two sets would say that it brings these novelties, an essential set of changes. The first set is linked to what the information officer points out about data protection. In this part, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the proposed changes. However, given that there is a need to establish clear legal bases and competences and to eliminate any possibilities of collection, use and access to data without an appropriate basis. So let's keep things clean, of course there'll be no doubt. And it's good to know, in fact, everyone who touches us. However, the second set, which seems to me and also to fellow Members of the parliamentary club, relates to the abolition of the professional examination from the state administration. And with this proposed solution, we do not agree in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In 2001, the reform of the state administration and public servants was carried out, as you have already discussed with your colleagues, so I will not repeat. The matter was created on the basis of long-term professional work, observation of all matters, coordination at the time with the social partners, and it was the same law as it was. The objective was, of course, a professionally high, politically neutral administration, an administration that was supposed to approach users who were supposed to be, at the time, I think it was a very popular password, "user-friendly administration"; and I remember how the chiefs joked that harmonics would play in the corridors, because the legislation did not allow them kindness. But now we've come up with something that we often meet in the National Assembly now so that some skills testing requirements can be lifted. Or even to eliminate knowledge or to abolish the education prescribed for a certain matter. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that this solution, as is now proposed, is not good. The reason is that, according to our assessment, this would not only reduce the level of knowledge of employees but would also devalue the profession as such. In some ways, the Ministry of Public Administration and Government will let everyone know in silence that a public servant can be anyone and then one can ask who anyone, only those who by some other key correspond to the government, to the ruling one. Such training is certainly not good. On the other hand, it's still kind of insidious, because after an inertia, some people, some of the knowledge stays there and things start to be known a lot later, in different changes. The examination is, however, a type of licence to carry out this demanding profession. To compare it with a professional examination that must be carried out by other professions, for example, we spoke previously to architects, builders, or with a judicial examination that gives the holder the right to participate in court proceedings. Although I hate to draw anyone by his words, but when he introduced himself to the current law, in May 2001 Mr. Minister is here with us, so it is easier for me to do so, he said, "The law otherwise regulates professional examinations today because he places an expert exam as a condition for everyone who comes to the office of administration." That's not what today is. Today, there is a difference between discrimination between those who practice traineeships and end up having to pass a professional examination and those who come to administration later in their later years. That's wrong. Anyone who comes into the administration can, as an excellent expert in the field of environment, space, construction, culture, sociology in general and so on, find it difficult for a good official not to know the basic principles of the functioning of the administration, the system of public finances, the administrative procedure, the constitutional arrangements, that is, how this country functions and, of course, also the EU's regulation, the integration in which we are speeded up. An ominous speech from eight years ago, and, well, since I've been alive for eight years, I'm telling you that things haven't changed so much that we should put it all on our heads. I know something has to be changed. That's normal. But suddenly all of these, I will say, high qualities that have been set as a criterion and above all fear of discrimination to become something else now, and this is worth a longer explanation. With what was said in 2001, we agree in the Liberal Democracy. We still think so, and therefore we cannot agree with this protozoic change, for example, at this point. Maybe even more. Now that the state exam is a long standing for the Slovenian public administration, I wonder whether any empirical study has been carried out to prove that this examination is an obstacle to the quality growth of public servants and public administration. I would also like to know whether the bill has a basis in any analysis of the situation, such as the number of exams carried out, the number of those who have not done it. Who are those scoundrels who don't do it? Above all, I am interested in evidence that this examination is harmful to the public administration system. These are important information that would convince me to support this marriage with joy and without any difficulty. For once, however, I think it is such that these officials must be brought to the brink of being harassed. Again, it is one such move that one might like to be some part of the electorate, because after all, it is the officials who heat up our lives, if not too much, at least by stealing our time, because we have to go to the congregation, the administrative unit, or anywhere. In the Liberal Democracy, we therefore believe that the proposed novelty is flawed. It is not clear from the explanation why, on the one hand, the abolition of these examinations and, on the other hand, the introduction of some different training options, which must exist, whenever any changes occur. We're just a society of permanent learning, and that's certainly not going to change. It is not clear what these courses would be or what they would call a "turning course" rather than a previous arrangement. There are many things missing in the bill that would convince us that it is really designed to make people feel better. There is no possibility of depoliticisation. Here there would probably be something to fix, it is said, changes would be necessary in that part that would depoliticise the appointment of top state officials. Here are the changes necessary, but then there is no spirit or hearing about this proposal. We are probably going to talk about this in this or another way, but at this point, I don't think we support the changes to this law, except in the part about security and personal data management. So this other part certainly isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you. Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the labour and organisational field of public administration and local self-government, following the adoption of the Public Servants Act 2002, changes and additions are being made. In practice, there have been shortcomings that need to be taken into account and addressed by appropriate inclusion in system solutions, and we also need to take into account the warnings from the information providers regarding the protection of personal data. The proper functioning of public administration is crucial in a modern country. Only quality staff and permanent education can follow rapid changes in the information society which needs effective public sector services. While we cannot say that it is bad for the current system of education of public servants, it is certainly not ideal. After a professional examination for appointment, a public servant is almost no longer receiving education if the employer is not interested in continuing to be educated, whether in the form of internal training or external seminars. The implementation of the current system has shown shortcomings mainly in the segment of public servants who have acquired social or legal education. These topics are already subject to examination, have already been processed in the course of the study and do not bring any additional value and do not significantly help the technical and natural staff to carry out specific tasks in the workplace. By abolishing the professional exam, the state will also save. We are aware, however, that some areas are so important that they cannot be successfully implemented only through training and that there is a need to maintain a professional examination both in the areas of inspection, administrative procedure, courts, police powers and so on. In their work, public servants will decide on the rights, obligations and legal benefits of citizens and citizens. We therefore expect training to be carried out by the best operators. After a new proposal for a law, staff will still have to learn about the content of the public administration, but we imagine that these trainings will be adapted to the nature and field of employment. Permanent education and regular awareness of the news is needed, and a one-time examination of the New Slovenia Group cannot, in our opinion, ensure that employees know all the rules if we also take into account the rapid change of legislation. The positive amendment introduced by the amendment of the law is also a more rational procedure in cases of public competition when the selected candidate does not conclude a contract of employment. In this case, the entire competitive procedure should be repeated after the current regime and the novelty allows the President to choose only to repeat the selection procedure. Amendments to the law also provide a legal basis for the employment of top athletes and trainers in the state administration and lay the basis for the collection and management of databases and the basis for the authorisation of the use of data from the central staff record. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed changes are a good starting point for further discussion, which will take place under the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Public Servants and the System of Civil Servants was adopted in 2002 in the National Assembly. At a time to date, many such and different changes have been made in many areas, according to the proposaler. The practice of implementing the system has also shown the need for some amendments and amendments to the law. In addition to some amendments aligning the system of public servants with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and the amendments supplementing the law in the work governing the selection of a staff member, the maximum amendment of the law in the work relating to the deletion of the provisions relating to the professional examination for appointment in the title and the establishment of compulsory training is. Unfortunately, the drafter does not explain the reasons for such a decision and thus allows for a broad discussion of the merits of such a solution in particular in terms of ensuring the quality and expertise of the public administration. We agree with the proposer when he says that the appropriate level of expertise is ensured not only by checking knowledge on professional examinations, but mainly by continuous training and compliance. We, too, believe that continuing training is much better than a one-time examination, but in our view this applies only to staff with some long-standing practice in the state administration. However, it certainly makes sense for us to take a test or test for all beginners, whether they are beginners after their training age or employees who are employed for the first time in public administration. We certainly believe that for these two categories of staff, the test or examination would still make sense, in our opinion. As regards trainees of this type of test, the Minister may specify in the proposed sub-legislative act to govern the traineeship. However, as regards the second category of new employees in public administration, we suggest that the Minister examine our concerns and respond accordingly. The proposal for a law contains a clearer determination of the duration of the working relationship for a certain period, some provisions on the acquisition of a higher title, including in cases of relocation to more demanding jobs and so on. In the draft law, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, there is still some confusion in some other areas, but we believe and hope that these will be crystallised in further proceedings and treatment and that the law will be amended and corrected as necessary. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we believe that the law at this stage is a suitable basis for further consideration and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, a co-worker! I must say, dear colleagues and colleagues, I was surprised when I got my hands on this proposal for marriage. I expected a lot of laws from the minister, a lot of proposals, but I couldn't possibly be convinced that Minister Virant would send a law to Parliament to end the exams. I must say that the matter has somehow turned out that when you were doing this law, I was quite skeptical about this law and I was really asking Minister Virant why highly qualified telecommunications engineers, and I had them there, they also have a professional exam, because they work in an area that is purely professional, technical, technological and so on. And I found it difficult to convince myself that sooner or later it would come into contact with public authority, which is true, sooner or later it would come into contact with certain clients, customers, which is also true, and sooner or later it is also right to know, and some did not really know how many ministries the government has and how many different authorities it has, and what a difference there is between executive authority, inspection, what oversight. And it's good that these highly qualified people do it sooner or later so that they don't make any big mistakes. And in a way, we all humbled ourselves and agreed with then the Secretary of State, Mr Virant, to take, as you wish, to work in the public administration, in this case in the public administration, you must be qualified and you must make an expert examination, either as a logical consequence of traineeship or as a fact that you are in contact and exercising certain public powers, even if you are working in seemingly technical areas. If this examination has been such or such that it has taught only the same things and that a policeman needs to know in detail the European Charter of Local Self-Government, something is wrong with the examination programme or at least with the part that should actually be specific, objective, professional, interesting, but not just the idea of a professional examination. The training modules to replace this are undoubtedly useful, because even when an expert examination is conducted today in some areas the development of the profession, the administration is fast and it is necessary to provide this training and also to train people if possible. Above all, as I know, ministers don't like sending people to training because when they train, they don't work, and that's a big problem. So I have to tell you the truth, if I subtract those beneficial changes about athletes, about data protection, which we support very well, I don't really know where the real reason is. And if the Minister doesn't really hide any real reason for us, we're going to ask him for information, for a second reading, to tell us if there have been so many people employed lately or people who can't do this exam or have problems with this exam. Therefore, in this case, although I was once a critic of this professional exam, at this point we cannot buy his explanation. I am not saying that maybe later we will not buy it later if it presents us with any better, more thorough and real reasons for it, but in this case I see that it is possible that in some way by abolishing professional examinations it simply lowers criteria either for those who already are, or for those who intend to come to public or state administration. And that's not good, and we're going to oppose that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u179	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Mr. Secretary! According to the proposaler in the labour and organisational field of the system of public servants, as well as in the field of the organisation of public administration and local self-government, there are a number of changes, problems or shortcomings, and therefore proposes to amend the law on public servants. In the field of the management of certain records and the opening and use of personal data by public servants and other persons, it is necessary to align the system of public servants with the system of protection of personal data and to establish clear legal bases and competences, thereby eliminating the possibility of collecting, using or interfering with data without an appropriate basis. The applicant also submits that the practice so far has also shown that the appropriate level of expertise of public servants is ensured not only by checking knowledge on professional examinations, but mainly through permanent training and completion. It therefore proposes to give greater emphasis to training for newly accepted public servants, as well as to the introduction to the content now subject to the professional examination for appointment to the title. However, this must be based on the fact that the best and most appropriate operators need to be sought for training. These objectives are also followed by the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Servants and, above all, Members of the DeSUS are certainly not in a position to support such a proposal. We will not support the proposed introduction of compulsory, purely induction training, and then permanent training of education at the expense of the suspension of the professional examination for appointment to the title. In addition to the professional examinations, permanent training and education are now provided, and the proposal relates only to the abolition of professional examinations. We believe that such a proposal is by no means a suitable solution for a more efficient and quality work of the whole administration, nor does the proposer give any valid reasons for such a proposal, nor does it justify it on the basis of the representations of the administrative systems of other Member States of the European Union. Moreover, it was the Minister of Public Administration who was years ago when such a verification system was introduced and adopted as a supporter of such a system, so I cannot understand why it was suddenly lifted. The question arises what are the reasons now in the background for such a change, and in the DeSUS Group we doubt that they are legitimately justified, since otherwise the applicant would have indicated them. Members of the DeSUS are convinced that the current system of continuous systematic and uniform training of public servants, as well as the specific competence of the administrative academy to organise and carry out professional examinations and tests of knowledge, is appropriate and effective, as it ensures an increase in the level of competence of administrative workers, which is certainly reflected in their greater efficiency and better quality of services of the entire administration. Only some training that does not require knowledge verification is not a means of achieving these objectives. The State Council has also pointed out a number of shortcomings, so I will not repeat their comments, and we attach the DeSUS Members to them. According to the motioners, the proposal has no financial implications either for the state budget or for other public funds, and therefore there is no need for funding in the budget. We cannot agree with this in the Group of Members. The minimum that the applicant should provide is an assessment of the proposed permanent education and training by showing the costs of the current current education system. In view of the number of employees in public administration, these costs, according to our belief, cannot be in any way indisputable. However, there is no way to consider the costs of carrying out the relevant procedures for selecting operators, carrying out expert examinations and training and completion, nor the costs of selected external operators for the implementation of training. Education by other external providers would be expected to be significantly more expensive than we are taught by experience in other areas, private schools, privatization of health care. So these costs can by no means be considered negligible. Or because the applicant neither assesses them nor anticipates them, such training and education will not be carried out at all. That's possible, too. And that we will have a completely non-professional public administration that will not be able to think with its head and will work only on the whims of individuals. Today's system of education and training for public servants is the result of previous analyses of the needs for training and upgrading in the administrative environment and of the guidelines resulting from the process of renovating the Slovenian public administration system and its integration into the European public administration system. Such a system has proved to be effective and quality and its consistent implementation is worthy of envy. And in the Dessus Group, we see no reason why we should stop it. We are convinced that the proposed system means a significant decrease in the level of knowledge of public servants and that the proposer only supports them with hair-attracted reasons that do not withstand serious judgment. Therefore, DeSUS Members will not support the replacement of something, which is appropriate, verified and established, with something uncertain, definitely worse and significantly more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Minister Virant spoke first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u181	Thank you very much. It seems appropriate for me to give some answers or replicas after this first round of discussions. Mr Pece asked whether this law had any effect on the political neutrality of public administration. The answer is very simple - it has nothing to do with it, it has nothing to do with it. Don't talk about it and it can't have any effect on it, in any way it can't increase or reduce the political neutrality of public administration. Secondly, it has often been obvious that I am proposing a change to the law that I myself once proposed as Secretary of State in a different context. Now I must say that I find it difficult to accept that because I once participated in the writing of a law, I should not have proposed any amendments to it or should have proposed only those changes the opposition agrees with. It's just that laws change. They change when it is estimated that they did not have the best effects in practice. And very often this happens in the same term, very often the same minister who proposed a law finds that things have changed a few years later and that regulatory arrangements need to be changed. And I really don't see any problem here. Perhaps even if we went to look at Dr Gantar's ministerial history, we would probably also find some kind of law that he made through the parliamentary procedure, and he later revised it. So I don't have any problems with that. Mr Potrč presented the entire history of the Law on Public Servants and its amendments. In particular, he caught up with the amendment which brought about the possibility of discharge of directors for non-criminal reasons. He claimed that the opposition had raised a constitutional dispute in that regard and had received it. I guess we're still explaining things differently. That constitutional dispute was won by the government, if you remember. The Constitutional Court has established the possibility of discharge of directors for non-criminal reasons, but it has said that this can only be done within a certain period of time following the appointment of the Minister or after the performance of that Director. The opposition’s claims at the time were that such inviolable solutions were not constitutionally permissible. The Constitutional Court has told you nicely that they are constitutionally permissible, so in principle you have lost that constitutional dispute on the main matter, and in one detail you have indeed received it. As far as this provision has been applied, I still remember how in the National Assembly some of you feared how this change of law would cause the tsunami of personnel, that thousands of people would be replaced and I don't know what. Even today, the figures show that eight discharges have taken place on the basis of this legal provision. And even in these eight cases, I know it all in a row, and I could give you very precise reasons, and there was no reason for it to be political. The extent to which this government is politically staffed in the state administration compared to the previous ones, has proved to be good at the end of the term of office of the chiefs of administrative units, which were set at the end of 1994 under the client quota system. Oral tradition in the state administration says this, then it split up, the LDS it belonged to, the United List belonged to that, and the SKD belonged to that. All the cities were divided by this key. There was no coalition coordination around this issue at the end of the mandate. Not a single customer coordination. Nothing. Exclusive procedures by law. Most of the chiefs who were then elected by this method, and I confess or must say that the work was carried out, the mandate was extended. And we haven't asked anyone which party belongs, although for many of them I know exactly which party they belong to and no one belongs to any government party. None of these new ones, either of them, belong to any government party. So much for political recruitment in the state administration. Perhaps, of all the things that have bothered me, I am most disturbed by Mr Gulic's debate that he believes that the words on good administration were only seeming or that the administration did not become more friendly. 100 reasons and 100 concrete measurable results could now be presented to you that the management has become more friendly, that it has simplified procedures to increase users' satisfaction with its work. After all, everyone can decide for themselves. Each of us is also a taxpayer and most of us are also taxpayers and can decide for themselves whether this year's income is easier or not to meet administrative income obligations. It's a lot easier for me. Two years ago, I had to put all my data on the form. I had to re-enter my revenue, sign it and send it by mail or by electronic means. I already got this pre-filled last year, I don't have to do anything else this year. Specific time savings for each taxpayer. Here in the National Assembly, you can beat much after this arrangement and say that it is not that it is worse than before, but every citizen will decide whether this government has done well for him when it has abolished the obligation to meet the tax forecast or not. Here no politicians can deceive citizens by convincing them what is good for them and what is bad for them, because everyone knows exactly whether they are good or bad. The key question is whether we are lowering professional standards by abolishing professional examinations. I'm pretty sure you don't. And that quote that Mr Gulic read from my 2002 performance in Parliament, I am still behind those. I still argue that those who come from the outside to the state administration must also have a basic understanding of its functioning. And if you read the explanation of the law, you'll see that that's exactly what it says there, just not through the bureaucratic system of professional exams, but through the training modules. We trust people who come to the state administration through demanding selection procedures. We trust them that they themselves will want and want to acquire this knowledge because it is essential for their work, and that they do not need to be, I would say, underestimated in such a way that we think they can acquire this knowledge only if we examine them in the end. The expertise of the public administration provides for a selection procedure. We have a demanding selection process, a large number of candidates apply for each job and the best one is chosen through the selection process. It's a guarantee of expertise. The required professional education. During the term of office of this government, you will not find a case where you employ someone in the state administration with a lack of education. However, in the event that this happened by accident, we received the following day or one week later the application and the inspection of the public servants system went away, looked up, and this contract was terminated. 74 such cases last year. Education is an absolute condition, and it does not at all depart from it. When you get through this system as the best candidate, you haven't, clearly, finished your learning. Training, learning and adapting to environmental changes is a constant. We have to train and learn something all the time. After all, this professional exam was also a kind of silence. I passed my professional exam, and now I have a lifelong recognition that I am able and qualified to work in the state administration. It is not true, things are changing and these changes in the environment must also be followed by every public administration official, otherwise they will not be in favour of their tasks. Also, what I said at the time was that it was wrong that this discrimination was: one had to do the exam, the other did not. Then this discrimination was eliminated in one way that everyone had to do it, now that no one has to do it, there will be no discrimination at all. Professional examinations are not, as Mr Gulič thinks, a method for finding incompetent public servants. The incompetent should by definition not come into the system because we cannot choose them, the competition for jobs is great, so very unlikely that we will choose the incapacitated, but if we are dealing with the incompetent, it will show up through work, not through a professional exam. It's sad if we have to prove incompetence through a professional exam. The inability to do so proves that someone has not achieved the expected work results, that he has not done his job. Because there are public servants in the office to work to do their job. There are several other arguments that there is no need for professional exams. Look, all the interns had to go through the system of professional examinations. And you know very well that at least half of the interns don't keep a job in the state administration, because they can only come to the state administration through a public invitation, some of them succeed, usually those who are really good at traineeships come into the system somehow and others don't. But also to all those who didn't come into the system later, we financed it through the system of professional examinations. It says: he did his internship, we paid him at the time, he did, but in the end we also financed him a professional examination, which he then went to another career with. So it was a completely wrong investment, if that's what you're looking at. For those of you who already have a career in the private sector, for example, and some knowledge, skills and so on, I really think that time has shown that maybe the idea that anyone who comes into the system has to take a professional exam is really not the best. And if we argued about it at the time, maybe you and Dr. Gantar were in the position that this exam wasn't necessary - I don't remember. And since I've been dealing with this point in particular, I don't remember. But if that's the case, then today I'm going to admit that I was wrong at the time, and I don't remember discussing so vehemently in this direction. But it seems strange to me that if you say that you opposed it at the time, for what reasons have you now turned out to be. Is it just because I'm proposing this marriage or because you have better reasons? I think you were right at the time that some top-notch specialist we get in the state administration at a job, and we can be happy to get him, but maybe we can trust him so much already, instead of sending him through the exam, that someone asks him as a student or as a student in high school, that maybe we can trust him so much that he can take a day or two and study the things he needs to know, that he can normally work in this system, in this company. By the way, do private companies provide, say, the best, the most successful, excellent companies guarantee the quality of their personnel with professional exams? Indeed, the public administration is not a company, but it is very clever to try to work with people in public administration as it does in companies. They're not from another planet. Employees in public administration are also people as employees in companies and we must treat them the same way, we must trust them the same, and we must expect them to do well. To conclude, do you expect a police officer who stops you on the road to quote Article 17 of the Fundamental European Charter on Local Self-Government, or do you expect him to know exactly what conditions he can exercise in your rights and at the same time know that he must treat you properly and kindly and respect your dignity and so on, even if you have committed an offence? I choose this other cop.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's good that we get two, three things straight away, because at the end of the discussion, I'm not going to answer. Now we must not be too banal about the policeman and Article 17 of this Charter. Clearly, it is logical that we do not know why a police officer should deal with these details and so on. But in the replica, I'd say this. True, we talked a lot about this law, now whether you remember it or not, I remember some things. I remember the fact that at the time, my employees were at the Ministry, the technicians, the engineers, the robes, what we needed. And that from this point of view we have triggered this debate. I did not object, but I was skeptical of these solutions, as I am skeptical today, because you did not quite convince me that this should be stopped. Is that what companies have? Yes, Mr. Virant, they have something similar. A lot of powerful, big, high-tech companies, especially in these new technologies, have as a condition for progress, engineers, say, some professional exam, some task, some knowledge going on and on, say, in companies of these new technologies. They have a lot of that. Internal internals, not applicable outside, but internally valid. That's a lot. I have to say, at this point, I'm really not quite sure why this needs to be stopped. I'm mostly interested in traineeships. I think it's pretty normal for the internship to end with a professional exam. Here I must admit that I am a great spender compared to you, and I am not sorry if I would give that money to perform this exam to someone who will not immediately be employed in the state administration, never at all. I think that in this public administration he worked as a trainee, he was also learning, and it is only right that this ends with a document that he may or may not benefit from, even elsewhere, if he is never in public administration. I don't think this is going to lead to me giving up my student diet or anything like that. I hope not, if not, I take the fall for it myself. That's it. I would if the study existed, I'd be happy to look at it for a second reading of what's wrong with these professional exams. As it is said, I have never been a great advocate of these professional examinations, but I am not a particularly great supporter of just doing so and in the same way as you suggested. Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the Minister with a co-worker, a Member and a Member of Parliament! I would like to say first, because the work of the public administration, so to speak, I am following the whole period of my employment, I can say and I hope to say that the administration, I will say only in the last 15 years, including Slovenia itself, has made considerable progress that throughout the whole period of the matter in the field of public administration, has changed, often changed, and that the work of the public administration has been truly professional, successful, fast. I also believe that this amendment to the law seeks to make the work of public administration a success. If I remember not so long ago, let's say 10 years ago, how many door-to-door deliveries were customers when they can do everything in one place today. How many times did the parties themselves have to obtain data from the other authorities for a specific body when, in fact, the body itself has to take care of all of this today. I would have hoped to commend the Ministry in this place, not only in this mandate, but I am sure that during the whole period of the independent Slovenia, the administration and management of the administration have worked hard to be kind, professional and successful workers. I went through this whole process of traineeships, my professional exam, my state exam myself. I must say that I personally had a very good internship, that I had prepared a traineeship programme, that I had circulated through all the then authorities of the old congregation, from internal affairs, geodetic administration, environmental regulation and space, etc., that I had actually come to know the whole spectrum of work. That in the end I had a special one-week seminar to prepare for my professional exam, that I would then have a week of leave to just prepare, that I would then perform a professional examination, which was very extensive. Will the end of the professional exam now make everything I see that I have received, cancelled, I think not, for if I understand correctly, the internship remains. But in all these years, even after I advanced, when I led the exhibition, I found that when people were employed when they came to the body, whether they came as a novelty after a school or college or another job, from the economy, it was necessary to provide professional training to the staff who were employed in the administration. And I think it depends, above all, on the leadership of these organs, on how they're going to train this staff. However, I am confident that each leader will make every effort to make sure that the staff is truly professionally qualified. If he doesn't have such a staff on the board of directors, he's going to have a major problem. This permanent education, which has already been widely established, I think is very good and necessary. Even those of us who were on board and went through the internship and through the professional exam, that wasn't enough if we stayed on that. Education must be, not to say, daily, but organized every year. This is also dictated by the constant changes to legislation, regulations and acts on the basis of which administrative workers also work. I think that this time too during this period public servants must be quite well educated to follow all the news that we are taking here in the National Assembly. What if I just look at the area of space management? Officials, public servants simply need to devote time and time to monitor the novelties of legislation so that they can work properly and successfully. True, constant changes are not good. We were very angry on the board of directors when we said, "They don't give us peace. They keep changing things for us." But I think we need to follow developments. Above all, by computerising all processes, I think things have gotten so much easier that it's now much easier to follow as it used to be. As far as the other changes are concerned. Maybe you'd only touch the employment of top athletes. This is where I think it's right that this matter is finally settled. We all know that this has happened all the time, but this has not been covered up by marriage, so it is only right that this matter is now being settled. And the last thing I would like to say is, at the time of the tenders and when the candidates are applied and the whole process is completed, when the candidate is already chosen and the contract does not happen, because the candidate does not want to accept the job, it seems very good that we have the opportunity not to repeat the whole process, but that we can choose another candidate on the basis of this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you. Mag. Maja Potrat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I would like to make some comments on the proposal for a law. If, of course, I have the opportunity to see the Minister as worthy of my debate, I would hear that this law is in no way better or worse prepared than the kind of laws we receive in the National Assembly and that systematically undermine educational standards. I consider the abolition of the professional examination to be an additional way to lower the standards necessary for the performance of the work. It is especially surprising to me that this is being introduced by a minister who is a crippled high school teacher. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for leaving the hall. [[...]] I see, Mr. President, that's what's amusing you, and so am I. Well, you see, the Slovenian Democratic Party says that knowledge is placed in the core of its programmes, but, given how knowledge is dealt with, to prove knowledge, to lifelong education, to evidence that is the only relevant criterion for doing a job, it is evident from the legal proposals that we receive in hand. The abolition of the professional examination as a ticket for public administration work is, in fact, the removal of the most objective criterion for meeting the conditions. This could also be an objective criterion for determining the advantage of a candidate notified to another candidate. I also see no reason why - the speech would be about 150,000 public servants - for part of public servants performing the professional examination as an obligation to perform this work, I stress, still standing and demanding, I have in mind teachers who are not particularly appreciated by Minister Virant, given the statements he made in the trade union wage negotiations. Teachers have to take a professional examination, judges have to take a professional examination, including those who enter the teaching profession as well as established experts in other subjects, and they have to make additional examinations for pedagogical qualifications and professional examinations in order to be able to carry out this work. However, this will no longer be necessary for a public official in the public or public administration. Those who have had to do this so far are worse off than those who will no longer need it after the new. So this is the first stop in the laws we get. The second stop is the absence of analyses. We have not received any real information on where the key weaknesses of the existing examinations are. If the Minister has already referred to police officers, then I will say that at least what should be expected of a police officer is that he knows the basic Charter of Human Rights and then there would be fewer complaints about the police procedure. There is no analysis of where improvements could be made, no analysis of which modules announced by the Minister will be able to address the deficit which the absence of an expert examination will entail. However, the third consistency that is usually proposed by laws is the absence or uncertainty of financial consequences. When I look at point 4, I think the president of the National Assembly of Business Laws should reject this law. He's not here. Because it says here: the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public financial resources. Furthermore, it says that even a certain amount of savings will be possible by abolishing professional examinations. Please, what are the consequences? The result may be either savings or costs. However, no savings are indicated, not an additional cost, which will be necessary for additional training to be provided. And while we're at it, there's a lot of arbitration in public administration. Mr Minister referred to oral extradition and mentioned eight replaced or otherwise public servants. The oral tradition speaks of very large numbers of those who were either recommended to withdraw or required to withdraw from their jobs, or it was ensured that they could no longer feel good about the work they were doing. With regard to education in the workplace, there are known cases where the chairman does not allow training for the staff member for the work he has, and could also list a number of evidence that all things do not run so well when they are not defined when the good or bad will of the chairman is left. But this is about things that aren't irrelevant. Because they have an impact on individuals' current financial position and also on their potential for advancement. If I try to attach to the Minister's satisfaction with the tax administration, I will point him to something that I cannot overlook, which I keep reminding and which I have also been promised as a change. The tax administration has ensured that it will enforce double-sex forms on new income forms. But I am still the beneficiary, although I could still have some comments on this, but there do not take into account the appropriate or necessary inclination that should be the dates, but is not taken into account, nor do they take gender into account. So much for being kind. And an individual or an individual, in this case, expects to be treated as a person with specific characteristics, and for me, gender has essentially defined the human personality. There would be something else to say about the professional exam. If doubts about the appropriateness of the professional examination are as much as they were heard, then it would be obvious to ask why no analysis had been carried out, what kind of expert examinations would be required to achieve their purpose. Clearly, this question did not seem to be worth anyone's while. And if some wonder loudly what is behind this law, then at least it seems to me that it will facilitate this law's entry into the service status of those who may be subject to an over-intelligence or over-intelligence test because they cannot do so. If the vocational examination may be a condition for others who have completed higher education, but no one refers to the fact that he has been able to get a diploma in education, I wonder why this should be done for the employees. I cannot under any circumstances support such a bill. It seems to me that it leaves too much room for speculation, not to mention who the modules will be trusted to perform them, but it is a totally undefined area. After some experiences, it is not possible to work too hard to find the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I must say that in these three and a half years, with some of the solutions that Minister Virant has prepared for the National Assembly, I could not agree more if I had always voted in favour or could have said that I had a comment at times. This law, which is proposed here, especially when we are talking about professional examinations, I fully agree with what is being done. I will also say that, following the presentation of the positions, the Minister further explained, in an additional plastic and very reasoned manner, why there should be no professional examinations in the future. And there is no appropriate comparison when we talk about some professional examinations or examinations that are not available between public servants and those who do not work in public administration, I find it quite inappropriate. Why not present this comparison, visualize it, and why would this comparison not be appropriate? I am an opinion, and continuous education is needed both in the economy or in the non-disclosure sector and in the public sector. In fact, employers are also obliged to provide these people who are employed there. And this is also being done because without knowledge there is no new product, there is no new added value. And I can only further confirm this argument from this point of view, because I worked alone in the economy, but I also had public servants, and I am, after all, an official. And if one area of education is concerned, then surely another area of education will be concerned. I can only say that in our congregation, the employees have very many certificates of certain courses, seminars. These workers are constantly getting their education. They must also be educated in order to amend certain legislation or regulations that are constantly changing. I therefore fully agree with the fact stated by the Ministry of Public Administration that only a one-time examination and an administrative examination alone cannot ensure that employees actually know the rules, especially taking into account the fact that the rules in the areas included in the mandatory content for carrying out this examination are constantly changing. These are the facts. From this point of view, I support the fact that these exams are not to be carried out, employees must be educated. However, it is also a fact that some exams remain in the future, such as the professional examinations of the administrative procedure, the professional examination of the inspector, the professional examination for the exercise of certain powers of officials. And that's what's left. I must say that it was never clear to me, however, as regards the examination of the Administrative Procedure Act, when we know that this examination must be given to anyone who leads the procedure under this Act, either at the first or second stage. And when I passed this exam ten years ago, the president of the examination committee finally told me when he found out that I was the mayor," yes, and you don't need this exam." After all, I was glad that he finally found out when I had finished my exam, but it was always illogical for me, given that this is a second - grade body or mayor’s decision at a second stage. The mayor, however, we know that he is an official or an elected person, and that he does not actually need an examination for this important procedure. Maybe the minister will explain to me if you decide on the authority. Who should he give the authority to? Power on the local level, or should he give someone who, say, has one who decides on the first level? For me, this matter has always been quite questionable or problematic if this is not the case with this law. I will support this marriage, I believe it is suitable for a second treatment because it brings good solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Yes, Minister, some have told you that in 2002 you spoke differently than you speak today. And I think you should be commended more because you're acting like an excellent state official of the highest rank and you know how to listen to "his masters of soldiers" is the voice of the master. We know how embarrassing it was when you took a firm position on the electoral law in the National Assembly, and then the President of the Government disagreed. It's just that in time, you learn a lot. And you're obviously learning fast. It is also interesting how you can read the decisions of the Constitutional Court. After such reading, the government thus received each of the initiatives or disputes before the Constitutional Court initiated by the opposition. Of course, we all know that's not the case. You said there were no special pardons, that the opposition was exaggerating at the beginning of this mandate when it claimed that there would be a human tsunami. Yeah. You're probably right, although as far as I've been monitoring the data on this, there have been some such pardons. And you know, forgiveness can be a number of kinds. Some were also able to forgive themselves when they realized that they could no longer work in these circumstances. However, some are forgiven by now sitting in the attics and basements of individual ministries, some are forgiven in such a way that they have been deprived of certain specific tasks and given some other, less demanding, marginal or not. Thus, of course, there are many possible ways of forgiving those civil servants or public servants who are not in the political will of the current authorities. Members of the opposition also have some acquaintances, friends and others to tell us how they were, in armor, no, and then fired. Well, I don't understand either, I don't know where the "racio" is, or the sense that makes you think you're proposing to drop this professional exam now. In fact, there is no analysis, at least you did not refer to it to show whether these expert examinations have proved to be something that has not contributed significantly to the quality and expertise of the work of public servants, and therefore there are no longer any reasons for maintaining them. And in this law, I kind of feel like you're trying, but I'm not going to argue that this is true, but somehow, given that I already know this legislative machinery that's going on in the National Assembly, even in some way later maybe legally cover some of the procedures in the state administration, some express-speed progress, as it happened, I guess there were three in the well-known Shinkovec-Zvokelj bond and so on. Now, of course, the professional exams are no longer necessary, they will not be, but we swear on permanent professional training and we will now seek them through the public competitions of the operators of this vocational training. Again, some viciously suggest that some future providers of such vocational training are already known here. If we link this to what has happened recently, the period has been in connection with the establishment of new private colleges and which are the owners of these colleges, or are at the head of these colleges, certainly for a miracle, always people who are politically very close to this current authority. Otherwise, it would probably have to be a "wario" different than it is in the explanation, why you're going into these and that kind of changes. He's asking a lot of questions. And if just a few years ago there were such serious reasons why this examination was introduced, if then many of you swore that it was necessary, that this is also the standard that is in force in Europe, whether this European standard has somehow deteriorated or waned. I mean, as far as I know these exams, they're useful and necessary. That is why I could not impose such a proposal as is contained in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Slavko Gaber receives the text. [[He's not here.]] My friend Joseph Bajc. [[He's not here.]] Ambassador Maja Shirtz. [[She's not here.]] And the Minister has also signed up for the word. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Well, all these years, I've gotten used to the fact that the opposition is looking for a dark background in every such innocent change of law. In the area of the laws that I cover, this is usually a desire for political orientation, to set up my own staff and so on. I wouldn't even answer that anymore because I don't think it makes any sense. I said, this law has nothing to do with political or non-political settings. And these eyewitnesses sometimes limit themselves to paranoia. If I have correctly understood Mrs Beblereva, the President of the Government has instructed me to abolish the examinations in the state administration, and I have immediately realized this. That theory is a little strange, isn't it? I'm sorry, that's a little paranoid. If I think about it, it's what stabbed me, because I'm proud of everything the government has done in recent years, this obvious mag. They say the government isn't as friendly as it was years ago. And you justify this by stating that on some tax form some of the interns are not listed in both sex form, such as "justified" and "justifiable". All right, I agree, this could be rectified, perhaps the proposal makes sense, a well-founded and tax administration could do so. But on this, building thesis that the board doesn't simplify, doesn't improve, but it's a little too much. That means, I'm sorry that it doesn't separate substantially from nonessential. What's more important to me than what you just said? For me, it is far more important that hundreds of thousands of taxpayers save their time because they do not have to meet any tax forecast. More importantly, in hundreds of thousands of cases, instead of sending a customer, I don't know, from the Social Work Centre or the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance on foot to the administrative unit after confirmation of permanent residence to obtain this institution itself, 100,000 cases are cases that this is the improvement that really has added value. If we have a system that is at the European level at the end of the business start-up, a VEM system that has been in operation since 1 February, allowing the founders to start an economic society in one place, quickly, within an hour everything is done without any form to be completed and free of charge, it is a measure that improves the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. To say to a student who has a registered permanent residence in Murski Sobota, you do not have to take one day and drive to Murska Sobota for a new ID card as he once had to, but can arrange it in Ljubljana, even if there is no registered permanent residence here. The fact that you don't need to go to the notary when you're selling a car anymore, it costs you five to ten times as much as it costs you to be in the administrative unit. That if you lose your identity card that you don't have to put yourself in line three times, once to cancel it, secondly to order a post in the official paper and third time to order a new ID card, but arrange all this at once so that you don't have to pay, buy administrative bicycles, but that you can, like any decent service activity, pay administrative services with cash and plastic money. That if, say, two newlyweds choose a location outside the official premises for marriage, that they will be accommodated and taken into their arms, if this is only technically possible and if the space is as decent as someone who does not have time during the week can go and go to the administration office on Saturday. These are essential things, and therefore I claim that the administration is nicer than it was, and that I will every time I am challenged here, I will stress this because we are proud of this and because I think that the government has taken a big step towards getting closer to its users and that it keeps giving messages that it is here to be a good service for citizens and for businesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, Member Dara Lavtijar Bebler applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You already apologized, but I also assure you that I don't have paranoia, at least I don't have a diagnosis, unlike who does. Of course it's not you, but it's not very far. However, I certainly have experience, especially from this mandate, when some laws were adopted, which made it clear or at least it was a hunch that there was another purpose for those changes. And there's no such thing as experience. Not so much in this area as you are covering, Mr. Minister, but in the field of justice, nothing more. And even then, the opposition Members were given some clues about possible paranoia. But no, unfortunately, those predictions turned out to be true. To mention, you know what this is about, for example, the previous amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and the subsequent annulment judgment in the Supreme Court, for example, they pass through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u196	Thank you very much. And a member of the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, as my debates did not seem worth listening to, you have now rounded yourself up and told me that I cannot separate the essential from the non-essential. For you who are a man, of course, everything in this country is defined and focused on the use of male form, insisting that more than half of the citizens and citizens or residents of this country, however, are women, are not essential. And I speak on behalf of this majority population, which has the right to be treated as women. That's why it's important. What you've been saying is that it's evidence of a kind administration and a great achievement, it would have happened if it were you or someone else, because it's technical progress, improvements go through whether we want it or not. And it's been transferred from somewhere else, and it has to be introduced by the EU. However, not to take into account the fact that the principle of sex and the provision of equal opportunities, ensuring human dignity is also one of the EU's basic requirements, but probably not yet captured in this government and in this country. I still insist that if the tax administration introduced a new form and if it was promised, I could also see that I am liable to pay the income and that I am not committed. And that's still essential to me if we're talking about kindness. I'm not talking about efficiency, accuracy, timing and everything else. We're talking about kindness. That's how we treat each other. And the tax administration doesn't admit to this fact that I'm a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thank you very much. But to the word I invite the messenger Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Everything shows that the method used by the leadership of the National Assembly for today is a very flawed method, since it is evident that when there is no vote, the Assembly Hall will be completely emptied. But I'd only ask one question here. Since I myself worked in part in the state administration, and partly as the mayor also led through the municipal administration, I know what professional exams mean, I know what exams are from the administrative procedure. So it seems to me that the replacement of the professional exam at, say, the promotion of the title with the presence at one, or so on the list of necessary trainings or the acquisition of extensive skills, perhaps some, a little longer seminar, seems to me to be very little. I do not believe that we can trust, no matter what they are, that we are counting on people who have already made progress in some area or in some part of it, but I do not believe that without checking the knowledge gained in this training, we can count on the presence in the process of some training that these people have really gained the knowledge they are supposed to acquire at that time. That's why I have to say I don't think it's enough. What, though, is so terrible that a person who takes part in a training course will also pass the exam from all of these training topics. Let him bring the paper. I find the confirmation of presence ridiculous. I must say, I have many years of experience in the field of protection at work. Not only are all employees in the state administration, not only in municipal administrations, but also employees in companies must, I don't know if they are still in companies now, but I think that if the employer is as smart as they are, they are trained to protect themselves at some courses, where they don't have to do exams. But I tell you, you know, the knowledge that boys and girls, men and women get in these trainings is very shallow and very modest. And because of this, you know, if a person has to prepare for the exam, if he knows that he will have to say something from the subject he was listening to, then he listens much more carefully and monitors the event than if he is there alone. This is one thing that I think is a shame that there is a mistake, and you should have expert exams maybe in a modernised form, maybe you could also get the necessary knowledge online. They don't have to take classes. He can prepare for the distance and then take the exam. That's essential because then you don't have to pay the teachers. That's one. Secondly, it seems to me that the fact that you have deleted the obligation of the Ministry of Public Administration to organise and perform professional examinations and some other training - I wrote down, but I cannot remember exactly what the diction is - seems to me to be wrong. However, the Ministry of Public Administration should still cover this area, because it is, in fact, a very important part of the Ministry's activity is certainly human resources training throughout the state administration. Of course, I cannot agree with you, Minister, when you are, in fact, making fun of the fact that an expert examination for a policeman is also supposed to be a familiarity with the European Charter on Local Self-Government. After all, why wouldn't I know her if we're on it? But I'm sure it's not an object that's important to him. And one officer takes an expert exam from a completely different area than one administrative worker who, for example, issues decisions in an administrative procedure in a purely different area. However, professional examinations adapt to specific areas. As was clear to me or known, the people in our government, even in the past, 25 years of this, have never done exactly the same exams, because they had to process and also take the exam from a subject that they knew would be covered in their field of work. That wasn't exactly the right thing to do. Mr Minister, I do not deny you credit for what you have done in these years, not only at this time, but also as Secretary of State to improve the working situation in the state administration and in municipal administrations. Just this rule on what the job must be, how much the square is, which belongs to an individual worker and so on, I think it was already under Minister Rad Bohince when you prepared a regulation with him. I have to say that my hair went up at the time, but I knew the purpose was good and that through the years and years it would all come true. However, I am thinking about this law, and the question is whether the effect will be positive. I'm afraid it'll be more negative than positive. And yet I would suggest that you think a little bit about it and maybe do it with some, in your opinion, perhaps very modern steps, but a few steps, maybe at least some step back. And second, to mix in private with the public, there should be little consideration in public administration. Also because there are needless doubts that some new faculties, universities and so on are seen in advance as operators of this vocational training. Don't nod. I have to give you a concrete example of how someone who owns, not the university or the university, but another private training entity, including public administration workers, has made me feel hot enough to support such laws. This could be called lobbying on a more private level. So we had to argue about this, but at the end of the day, I think that this is a picture, you know, of what not only the opposition Members can do, but also your Members will begin to doubt that it is not possible for such changes to the law on public servants to have a side effect, as it is called, "side-effect" or as it is called in English, even that some will get jobs that will carry big money.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. I should have gotten the word from my colleague, Josef Školč, but he's not here. Mag. Milan M. Squeakle. [[He's not here.]] My friend Milan Friday. [[He's not here.]] A colleague, Dr. Pavel Gantar. [[He's not here.]] Comrade Aleš Gulic. [[He's not here.]] Member Miran Run. [[He's not here.]] Ambassador Rudolf Petan. [[He's not here.]] I'm asking the minister if he wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask Members present whether they want me to apply Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the allocation of the remaining time? [[Yeah.]] Anyone else besides Comrade Kovachic? [[Nobody.]] Comrade Kovachich, it's yours for five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u201	Thank you very much. It won't take that long. Although I was reported for discussion, after hearing the argument mainly from Minister Virant, I resigned from this intention, because I would not be able to explain so thoroughly the benefits of the proposed law. However, I have now taken the floor because, despite these very concrete and clear arguments that have been put forward, and the concrete cases that have been presented for what has been done positive for the fact that the operations of the state administration have been simplified, have become more effective and more friendly to people, there have been claims that this is nothing, but the problem is in some sporadic matter where there was no woman form of name on some form. If this is some small flaw that is easy and likely to be, there is no problem to alert those who have issued this form and the matter would be rectified without any pumps. This, however, makes much of an argument that things are not going well, despite all the arguments that have been explained. It's like listening to a feminist woman who lives in some vamped activist world, not a member of the National Assembly, who doesn't separate really important things, the material things that make it possible for people to use the services of the state administration much easier than before, and then some kind of claim is made, like some serious mistake that makes it all go wrong and makes it necessary to break this law. And I'm sorry, I'm having a hard time digesting this, so even though I gave up the debate, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u202	I can't give you a debate. I can't give you a procedural debate. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am gradually proposing that you request Mr Dimitri Kovacic's apology because what he has just demonstrated is a typical case of hate speech based on discriminatory treatment of a woman's sex person, that I do not speak of it, Mr Virant, hold your head. Not to mention that it has also been discriminatory in view of the position of the definitions. [[...]] [[...]] It was about feminists. Feminism is not prohibited, feminist is a purely regular matter and therefore there is no need to embarrass people who have such views. But if anyone thinks I'm a feminist, they need to know first what the definition of feminism is. And feminism is not an exclusive moment for a person to be a Member or a Member. And now this. I am sorry that this government and these Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group do not know basic civilisation standards. Among other things, there is a law called the principle of equal treatment. You are not able to do this, and as long as I am a Member, I will point out that I do not respect the principle of equal treatment. And please, Mr Vice President, ask the Member to apologize to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u204	Thank you very much. That's what I'm going to do, of course. Comrade Dimitriy Kovačič, in terms of a good conclusion of the day. You want a word? I'll make an exception if you want the word, of course I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u205	Yes, thank you very much. Now, of course, I didn't want to offend anyone, at least one of my fellow Members. However, I spoke comparatively that such discussions in this sense, as Mrs Potrate said, would not be expected from a Member of the National Assembly, but rather from a reserved feminist. Not just as feminist as you just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u206	Good. Thank you very much for this debate. I will also conclude the debate with this. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, i.e. on Thursday 24 April, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you all for participating.
