ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Maria Pozsonec and Mr Mag. Your Clavor. I have invited the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to the first item, the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State at the 26th and 27th points, and the representative of the Council of Justice at the 31st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 9 May 2008 meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SD, LDS and Lipa groups and the Zares Group propose to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a consultative referendum on regions in Slovenia. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 14 May 2008. Would the representatives of the motions be willing to withdraw? Mr. Lakhovnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! In the Parliamentary Group, we are indeed proposing that the proposal for an invitation to tender for a consultative referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia, as a agenda item, be withdrawn from the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, in particular because the parent body, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, has not adopted the opinion that the proposal for a consultation referendum is appropriate. The members of the committee then voted on the decision to call for an advisory referendum, specifically on each of the proposed referendum issues and on proposals to amend the referendum issues. Neither of the proposed amendments nor any referendum question has received sufficient support and, consequently, no decree as a whole. Since the parent working body, pursuant to Article 61(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has not drawn up a commercially correct position on the proposal, we are really convinced in the Group that that item of the agenda does not meet the conditions for hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the possible poor management of the committee and the apparent coalition unanimity of the referendum can not be the reason for the abuse of business regulations. And from this point of view, we estimate that this point cannot be included on the agenda of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group, we really believe that, after voting in the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, there is no room for a request for an advisory referendum to be placed on the agenda of a meeting of the National Assembly. It is increasingly clear that at this point, when we talk about the consultation referendum, we are increasingly witnessing a series of different proposals, a whole series of solutions that we do not consider to be an honor to the National Assembly, which reminds us of some mixture of bad solutions, and therefore we believe that to avoid adding any more pre-election spices into this context, the only solution is to respect business regulations and that this point withdraws from the 39th regular meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the candidates for the proposal for a referendum? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Potts. That's one suggestion to withdraw, but they're identical. I can give you my word and suggest you use the word at the end, five minutes to further explain - as a proponent. The representatives of the candidates for the invitation to tender wish to speak - or have resigned. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening the application. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Minister of Cooperation! The proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the 39th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported. The Slovenian Democratic Party is aware that such a move would primarily harm citizens and citizens of this country and would harm better, more consistent development in this country. Therefore, we find it difficult to understand that things were going the way they were going, but still; a consultation referendum is decided when you do not know how to decide for yourself. And given that the coalition believes in the project in this National Assembly that in this country, both associations of Slovene municipalities believe that the entire National Council in this project, and because a large majority of Slovenian municipal councils and mayors believe in this project, we simply have no choice but to tell the opposition by argument that it is a project of citizens and citizens and that it is necessary to carry out this project to the end. Therefore, the withdrawal of the point will not be supported and we will do everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to reach a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Three parliamentary groups - Social Democrats, Liberal Democrats of Slovenia and Lipe, we have made the same request that this point withdraw from today's meeting of the National Assembly. We are convinced that all three of the reasons that must be fulfilled are fulfilled. First: that the proposal to request a referendum is considered at today's meeting does not meet the conditions. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that it must also give an opinion on this request to the parent working body; the parent working body has not produced an opinion - neither positive nor negative and therefore the conditions are not met. Secondly: we in the parliamentary groups have made a request for a decision in due time, it is said, earlier than the 12th hour of the previous day and the formal reason for the decision is fulfilled. Thirdly, in accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, such a request must be decided by the National Assembly by a vote. It is a pity that such an important issue as the establishment of landscapes, including their powers and their system of financing and elections, would be decided politically and politically unprepared. That's what we'll do if we decide today. I expect, and this is also the reason for our request that the ruling coalition or that part of it still insists that a consultative referendum should be held on the decision-making process, realises that by so doing, it is asking citizens and citizens to face a question that will not benefit them in the preparations for the elections. For we all know that even if this decision is taken at the referendum, nothing special can happen with provincial legislation by the end of the term of office, nor can the need for a two-thirds majority to establish the provinces, and even less the provinces can become operational by the end of this term. Therefore, it would be right and fair to consider the content of the referendum and not to blackmail that, as a political project, rather than as a decision to benefit citizens and citizens of Slovenia, this referendum is not adopted at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Thank you, President. The LDS was among the signatories to the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda and it is clear that today's vote will be no different as well. We believe that the point is inappropriate, inappropriate and unfairly placed on the agenda today. The President of the National Assembly had the key to not doing so. Unfortunately, it is not the President of all Members, but he has decided on behalf of one of the strongest or most powerful Members. In the Liberal Democracy, we simply do not know how it can be explained that there can be a vote on the parental committee that is such that it does not provide an adequate answer, and the debate was such that the dissuasion within the coalition is about whether the conditions for the referendum are appropriate, so the President insists on this and puts this point at today's meeting of the National Assembly. In all this, it also escapes the fact that when you look at Lotus Notes' report, which is governed by the Home Committee, namely the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and in this report on page 6, the opinion reads "a proposal for an invitation to an advisory referendum on the areas and the names of the provinces in Slovenia is not appropriate," despite such an opinion as stated in this document, we are currently considering, or some wish to consider, a point which is obviously not being considered at the meeting. Therefore, in all things, the arguments that speak of the procedure for the adoption of legislation, what were the procedures, how the territories and the scope were changing, and the names of those provinces, show that there is no possibility of reaching a consensus today. Therefore, our proposal, Mr President, to withdraw this item from the agenda by voting at the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you. Well, given that the Committee has not given its opinion to read the report given by the working body, it says: "On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considers that the proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia is not appropriate." However, as you know, everyone who knows the rules of procedure, the final word and decision-making shall be given to the Assembly of State, which is why this item is placed on the agenda of the meeting. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. We are also among those political parties or parliamentary groups that propose that the matter be withdrawn from the agenda. Not only because of the content presented by some in front of us, but because the proposal for a decree is contrary to business provisions, but mainly to the content. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as part of its proposal to call for an advisory referendum, is deceiving, in my firm belief, citizens and citizens with questions about individual provinces. In other words, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia plans to ask the people of Slovenia whether you are in favour of living in this province. But generally speaking, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia only asks if you are in favour of having 13 provinces in Slovenia. In the Lipa Group, we are pursuing a different goal. As long as the National Assembly, last but not least, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not find so much wisdom for 10 years and a few years to take a step forward in connection with the establishment of the provinces, then it would be appropriate that, if the referendum had already taken or any other form, the advice would at least give people the opportunity to decide on the number of landscapes, but not like the document before us today that sets the number of landscapes and that number is extremely large. This number means the division, or rather the fragmentation, of our country into small, very small provinces, which will have neither independence in terms of obtaining funds nor financial resources in full, but only in terms of tasks and responsibilities that should be fulfilled by the provinces. From this title, until the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with the correct proposal to the National Assembly, we will not support any more such proposals. We will support, as I have already announced in the introduction, the withdrawal from the agenda, because it is purely a mockery of people, not only those who will attend the referendum, but also all others who may show their disagreement with the government proposal. Therefore, once again from this city: Members and Members of the Lip Group will object to this kind of inclusion in the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! We also support the withdrawal proposal in the Slovenian National Party. If you'll allow me to explain it a little bit. The 13th point of the proposal of the referendum sets out what is clearly and loudly identified and raises questions from a constitutional point of view. It's point 13, as you know, where we're talking about a special, that is, the Ljubljana province, which relates to the area, not the province's tasks. As you know, the Constitution does not provide for the possibility of managing provincial tasks by the municipality or by the city municipality. So, the first fact is that constitutionally it's questionable. The second fact, which is for the Slovenian National Party, among many others, of which it is somewhat later, is the fact that point 2 of the proposal suggests that a consultative referendum is to be held throughout the whole country by setting out the referendum areas; in fact, it sets out those which are not yet envisaged. Proposal: 13 provinces, 13 areas. Let me remind you that the handling of the question of whether to give you a comparison of Thermoelectrica 3 was yes or no, diametrically, contrary to the fact that there were no referendum areas within the whole, but there was a whole that decided on one part, but there would have been justly decided on one part. That's not right either. Finally, that the four proposals for an exploratory referendum, colleagues and colleagues did not receive support on the home labour body, is probably already clear enough evidence that it would be wise and wise to withdraw this proposal and, in the worst case, I am speaking on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to reshape it. This is an offer of a solution that we are not excited about, but we are offering a solution that we will not only resent, that one referendum question should be formed, that this referendum, if any, will be called when there will be national elections, but the essence of this referendum issue should be, or people want regions: if - how many do they want, and if - what do they want? But not to pre-determinate regions and ask them, in those regions, czech: Barovic, at Gymnasium 5, do you want an apartment at Gymnasium 5. For this reason, the Slovenian National Party insists on the position in order to withdraw the item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you. And Mr. Gantar, who didn't make it before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Also in the Group of Members, we will clearly support our proposal we have put forward. We believe that there are no formal or substantive reasons why we should be able to deal with this point today on the agenda of the National Assembly. Regardless of the interpretations, whether the College or the President of the National Assembly has the right to place this item on the agenda. The fact is that the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has not adopted the conclusions on the call for proposals, and the fact is that it has not adopted any decision with different options, which would be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly. More than that! If today happens by chance that this point would be placed on the agenda and that it would even get, which we hope will not be listed or supported, then we are again faced with an open question where the Local Self-Government Committee will be able to face this issue again. And what would happen if it was not decided again, as it was the first time - there is no reason for you to do otherwise now - about the decision and where we are then. Then the reputation of the entire National Assembly will be affected, which has adopted a decision for which there is no support in the home labour body in any way or other. Let us be aware that there are not only procedures in play, but also the logical and meaningful conduct of all of us 90 Members and Members. I have to say, I was quite sensitive in my 15-year professional political career. It has not happened to me that the members of the two parties from the coalition, not all of them, literally escaped from the Committee on Thursday evening, and that they did not meet until the next day, when we were actually taking decisions that were clear. So nothing was adopted and then it was placed on the agenda. We must say that in the Group of Members we really put a lot on the project of the provinces. I'm afraid that this project has become imported at a certain point - I'm not afraid, but I'm sure - and that the landscapes, such as you're trying to push through the referendum issue, will, in fact, be a clear obstacle, not an incentive for development. Therefore, it is also understandable that the referendum should do what reason and logic cannot do, i.e. that we should decide on the number of landscapes and then maybe give it to the referendum. Of course, this experiment is transparent and can be taken as a form of political abuse of the referendum for some other purposes and purposes. We are also strongly opposed to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you. Does the representative of the proposers wish to further explain the proposal? Mr. Potch, did you want it before? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We therefore decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. On the basis of Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are now moving on to the request of the 24 Members and Members Group that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College to consider the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act as a matter of urgency. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to request a presentation of the position. Mr. Germich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! At the beginning of this year, the Constitutional Court found that the Higher Education Act was inconsistent with the Constitution. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has set a deadline for the elimination of non-compliance by 11. 8th this year, we expected the Government to respond immediately and prepare a concrete and professionally harmonised amendment to the law, unfortunately this did not happen. Nor did it happen in line with the guidelines adopted on the national higher education programme to ensure that the Government does what is necessary and prepare an appropriate international legal basis for the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university. Thus, we are now witnessing that, on a proposal from the Government, he has confirmed the College in a procedural manner that the amendment and amendment of the Higher Education Act is proposed to amend it following an urgent procedure. In our view, therefore, the Members who have been signed have reason not to deal with this law in an urgent way more than enough. Firstly, we estimate that there are no business reasons for this amendment to be dealt with under urgent procedure, but we are confident and we are also expressing a renewed reluctance, given that, by replacing the Minister, the new Minister's performance was expected to create a new wind in order to establish a partnership between higher education partners - between the Government, the University and students, who will jointly prepare professionally coordinated proposals in the dialogue. The law before us speaks again of this not being the case. Thus, instead of a normal business proposal, the Government has come up with a proposal just before the workers, requires an urgent procedure, and in this way it is impossible for the interested professional public to make a qualitative contribution to the finalisation of this law. It is therefore essential that we take the time to allow the professional public to submit appropriate proposals to the law and thus complement it by not being subject to a constitutional review. Of course, there are many arguments, including the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which notes that the law is professionally inconclusive and legally unacceptable in the proposed form to this extent, so that it can be reliably built up in future parliamentary treatment. In doing so, we would also like to make clear our position and to oppose somehow the opinion of the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest government party, as well as some of the Members of the post, who are talking about opposition Members opposing the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university. Here we strongly oppose such a position, because our opinion is quite the opposite, we support the establishment of such a university, but we certainly do not agree that the failed work of this government in this area is being carried forward as a pre-election move on the shoulders of opposition Members. Of course, there are a number of professional arguments why we do not support the urgent procedure, because the law that is prepared does not answer clearly why - the union of universities as an entity does not really know anywhere, it is unclear what is the accreditation of the international union of universities, what is the accreditation of programmes that none of the entities involved in such a relationship, and what is unclear or inconsistent is their funding. The proposal also raises questions and ill-advised areas which provide for the implementation of the professional, organisational and administrative tasks of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education. At the same time, through the debate, we would like to enlighten and enable the Government to give us a clear answer as to its concept of the development of the university network. Because now we can witness that we have a great concentration on the establishment of new universities. Some also assess - some who have other purposes, including profit-making purposes - as opposed to the positions expressed by the President of the Government after his visit to various regions and should almost every region have its own university; today we are witnessing the opposite trends. Therefore, we would also like to answer these questions during the debate on this law in the normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you. We are moving on to a re-decision on the way in which we are proceeding, and I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 33. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure under the 20th item of the agenda. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	Everything is going on so fast, so at the same time, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that there will be a meeting of the committee tomorrow, 20. 5 p.m. in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. I take it the agenda of the 39th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, this is on a defensive proposal to schedule an advisory referendum on areas in Slovenia. The proposal for the invitation to tender for the Consultative Referendum was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. I give the text to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the proposal. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! In order to need the provinces, we are agreed by the vast majority. The uneven developmental movements are those that dictate a change in the organisation of the country. The differences between the areas are small, but very diverse Slovenia is growing rapidly and we have not been able to stop them with the mechanisms that have been adopted so far. Even more, the differences are growing. Until recently, it has not been questionable what the answer to this problem is or how many provinces respond to this problem. The number of 14 provinces was a reality, so the previous coalitions designed the concept and adapted the territorial part of the operation of the state administration. We have 12 statistical units and two other specialities, two so-called development regions established due to special circumstances. This is SACHA and the Ptuj-Arms region. Since there were no concrete steps and decisions until this mandate, everything else is centrally managed, centrally organised and subordinated to decisions of the central state authorities and political influences. The so-called provincial units, the territory, the inhabitants most or all of them were released from the decision-making and management procedures of that country. Although the previous coalitions have established a municipal system and although they have been very dislikable with small municipalities, at least the necessary municipal and road infrastructure has been made available to many. In this mandate, higher funds are provided to the municipalities in particular and can therefore be invested much more. However, problems remain in the management of common problems in wider areas, these are important links, joint infrastructure projects, water systems, landfills, universities, universities and so on. Now we have a chance to undo these mistakes. In addition to responsibilities, tasks, responsibilities, resources and personnel, the provincial authorities will decide on the priorities and development of these rounded areas. If we establish the provinces, we will transfer to them about as much resources as the congregations of those provinces. Many of these resources will be spent on development, investment and access to European funds will also be facilitated. For the first time, we have prepared all the legislation necessary to establish the landscape system, and we also have a map. It would be illustrative to expect that everything is ideal and that everything meets all the political criteria, but everything is good enough to start with. Corrections will bring life in one way or another. Because there are concerns, but also because we feel dilemmas in the opposition, it is right to ask people for a consultation referendum. At the same time, the referendum would be held throughout the country, the outcome would be determined separately for each province and the outcome would be determined separately in each municipality. The positions of the electorate and the electorate will be clear, they will decide on or against the proposed province, they will decide on or against the proposed name, and the same will apply to decisions in smaller areas, that is, in municipalities. They may have fewer landscapes, but the organization of local self-government is different. They have organised districts, they have a much more structured and diversified organisation. We only have two levels, and maybe that's why it doesn't matter if I have any more. In any case, we will take the results of the consultation referendum into account in further procedures for completing and reorganising the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you. The proposal for a consultative referendum was considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to President Franz Jazbec to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Respectable. At its 18th emergency meeting on 8.5.2008, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a consultative referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia, submitted by the Group of Members Jože Tanko - Parliamentary Group of SDS, Jožef Horvat - New Slovenia Group, Jakob Presečnik - Slovenian People's Party Group and Mag. Vasja Klavora - DeSUS Group of Members. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 22.4.2008 by the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of 8.5.2008 and of the proposal to amend and supplement the referendum question to the proposal for an advisory referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia, which was signed by Mag. Vasje Klavora's proposal for a consultative referendum on regions in Slovenia with a proposal for a resolution on the invitation to tender for a consultative referendum of 6.5.2008. In the introduction, a representative of the proposer of the proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia, Mr Jože Tanko, explained that the applicants had decided to submit that proposal because the National Assembly had rejected a government proposal for a law establishing the provinces on which 85% of the support had been reached in the public debate. Given that the question of establishing landscapes is a matter of broader importance, which concerns all the inhabitants of Slovenia and at the same time the inhabitants within the respective areas of the proposed provinces, they propose the implementation of an advisory referendum in the whole country area divided into referendum areas. According to the proposal, voters and voters in the proposed referendum areas should decide on the area of the proposed province, where different positions exist on the name of the provinces, as well as on the name of the province. The legislative and legal service examined the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia. The Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in its opinion supports the proposal for an advisory referendum. The Commission considers that the consultation referendum should be carried out in such a way that electorates and voters have the option of deciding on the establishment of the provinces in their area and considers it inappropriate for residents to decide on the rights of the inhabitants of other areas. The representative of the Government, Minister Ivan Žagar, initially stressed that the purpose of establishing the landscapes in their development function and implementation of development projects is clear because statistics show that the differences in the level of development between the regions in Slovenia are increasing. If we want to move the level of development according to the level of the social gross product and according to other indicators, we need to take a step forward in the regionalisation of Slovenia. The preparation of provincial legislation took a very long time and was based on a very broad public debate and on the prior coordination of the positions of parliamentary groups. The proposal for a consultative referendum therefore allows the regionalisation project to be completed, thus allowing the provinces to contribute added value to the more coherent and faster development of Slovenia as a whole. In the debate, members of the coalition and opposition parliamentary groups faced their views on the number of provinces. Following a discussion under Article 184(2), where Article 56 of the Rules of Procedure were applied, the Committee voted on the following opinion: the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considers that the proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia is appropriate. Seven Members voted in favour of the proposal, against the proposal by seven Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the opinion was not supported by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Mr. Ivan Žagar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! I support the proposal for a consultative referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and on the provincial status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. After an extensive discussion over the past period, the proposer of the consultation referendum envisioned areas in the belief that residents in a given area were connected to the local community, in this case the provincial community, their awareness of their belongings to the environment and the community. The questions are designed to provide answers for this area of the proposed province and for each congregation. And the people's answers will be a real indicator of what they want. The very nature of the consultation referendum, however, gives the legislator the responsibility to respect as much as possible the wishes of the population in the final decision. The proposal, which is proposed, stems from the belief that we need the landscapes; the conviction, above all, of those who feel the landscapes as an opportunity for a faster realization of a number of important projects into a particular environment; of those who believe that the provinces bring added value to all the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. The proposal makes it possible to try to bring the landscape project to a conclusion and thus allow for faster and more equitable development of Slovenia and also for the living conditions of Slovenian citizens and citizens to a comparable position in accordance with the principle of equality before the law. I would therefore like to point out in particular that when we are working towards establishing the provinces, we are determined to accelerate the development of Slovenia, for more coherent regional and polycentric development. For if we look at statistical indicators of the development of individual areas of Slovenia, in order to make comparable progress despite all the efforts made, all parts of Slovenia are not the most encouraging. Not only are the differences between parts of Slovenia currently measured by statistical and development regions quite large, but they are even increasing, and these are not only reflected in the amount of gross product, which is a basic criterion for development throughout the European Union. This is also followed by other indicators such as average earnings in Slovenia and it is probably not a coincidence that this is the lowest in the least developed parts of Slovenia. Thus, these and many other indicators speak of the need to move forward in this area, which is systematically possible only with the introduction of landscapes. Preparations for the establishment of landscapes, i.e. the drafting of legislation, have been taking place for quite some time, since the change of constitution, and at that time a consensus has been reached in this National Assembly that we need and have also reached a consensus on important responses. At that time, it was also required that laws be drawn up first to provide for organisational, functional and financial decentralisation, followed by a proposal for reorganisation. And this legislation is fully prepared and all the questions or answers to all the questions are known, with a few minor dilemmas that can be concluded. In addition to you, Members of Parliament, municipal councils, mayors and interested public were also involved in the debate. Finally, it is also a large part of the public administration, which has been involved in defining the tasks that the provinces are supposed to perform. Thus, according to our assessment, legislation is fully ready for adoption, except perhaps in some parts, where it can also be properly corrected at the political will. Also in the law on which the proposal for an advisory referendum, i.e. the law establishing the provinces, has been covered by a broad debate, both in this and in previous mandates. The solutions proposed are therefore also based on documents and studies that have been prepared. The profession has prepared options for regionalisation of Slovenia. It is the right and responsibility of the legislator to adopt regionalisation, with the participation of the municipalities, which will include the fundamental elements of the regional community with the right to local self-government. These elements are dual: the common interests and needs of the people in a given area and the ability to realize these interests and needs. Throughout the debate on the establishment of the landscapes, solutions have been drawn up that are now before you and are being reached with a broad consensus on them. There are still some dilemmas in some parts, so it is reasonable to ask people at the consultation referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the proposal to call for an advisory referendum. I am sure that the responses to the referendum will be a good start for the final decision of the National Assembly on the establishment of the provinces, and we need these in Slovenia for development needs as soon as possible. They are most likely to be needed by areas with the greatest development needs. However, I am sure that Slovenia needs them as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Puksič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the referendum on the establishment of the provinces. Why do we need a referendum? Members, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, we need a referendum because on 1 February this year 50 Members and Members voted in favour of establishing the provinces. 27 Members and Members voted against, and 7 Members and Members abstained. If at least 7 more Members and Members were to vote in favour, the law establishing the provinces would be adopted here in the National Assembly. Because in this country, as many as 85% of municipal councils, mayors, the Association of Municipalities, then the second association of the Community of Slovenian municipalities, because the project is believed by the State Council and because the project believes, as I mentioned earlier, 50 out of 85 present, 7 has not been defined, a referendum is needed solely for citizens and citizens to say that the provinces want, want, and that those who voted against the establishment of the provinces, but vote for the establishment of the provinces. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need a referendum in order to bring the country's legislation project to an end after 14 years. This government and this government coalition are the first since the establishment of the country and after 14 years of local self-government, which has fully drafted legislation to establish the provinces. She made six laws. It drafted all six laws on the basis of the mandate it received at the outset. The mandate for the drafting of this legislation was given to her by the Prime Minister of the Government and was not given by the coalition, but the mandate of the Government and the Minister was given to the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority, which amended the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore very difficult to believe today that some of these individuals, i.e. the 27 who voted against and the 7 who abstained, have changed the situation in their heads. However, it has changed, contrary to what they have promised, to prepare and adopt provincial legislation by amending the Constitution. Given that I have already been a Member of the National Assembly and for some time in politics, I believe that it is difficult to always be consistent, honest and honest through political careers. However, colleagues and colleagues, if you have decided to amend the Constitution, then respect this decision consistently until the end of this term. This is the only thing citizens and citizens are rewarding. Honesty and correctness in policy are more difficult than sometimes to adapt to some current political events. And yet, in the long run, fair is paid. Given that there is no longer any other option than for citizens and citizens to say whether they want the provinces, such as the political reality of the previous term, or whether they want faster development in the economic field, or whether they want to develop at about the rate they experienced when establishing local self-government in the field of education, culture, science, education, infrastructure, then of course it is essential that we establish the provinces. The provinces are definitely bringing more and better jobs, bringing more funding from the European Structural Funds and finally, and no less important, bringing a better future for our children. The decision to referendum means a decision to improve the lives of our children in the next decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Part of the ruling coalition wants to force not only substantively but also procedurally unprepared decision-making. It is only because we all know that the decision to establish the provinces is not sufficient for a two-thirds majority to see that the proposals put forward by the coalition are professionally unfounded that the call for and the vote in the referendum cannot ensure that the provincial legislation is still in force in this mandate. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that the referendum issues are not properly prepared and that the answers to them can only exceptionally constitute a unanimous decision. This is possible only if more than half of the electorate and electorate participating in the referendum in all the province envisaged, most of which would again vote in each province to establish their own province. Only in this way could it be assessed that the proposed division of Slovenia into provinces is confirmed at the referendum, as proposed by the ruling coalition. Even in this case, we would not know what would be the opinion on possible different alternatives and other issues. Perhaps we could define different areas, and yet all the issues of the provinces, their financing, their competences, their way of organising them, their elections, and so on, would remain unregulated. The claims that they are mere trifles are only the statements of the Minister and perhaps of someone else, but in fact we have different views on these issues. Surely it is true that in the fall elections to the provincial worlds could not be held. Whoever claims otherwise can only be of the ruling coalition, I hope not, because we know well that this would violate all the democratic procedures necessary to carry out the elections. A poorly prepared breakdown to the provinces is therefore proposed. Only voting for or against the will of the coalition is required, which is contrary to the principle of simultaneous and unified organisation throughout the country. There is a question that cannot be answered alternatively, which is supposed to be the characteristic of the consultation referendum. Various political and professional interpretations of the results of the referendum are very likely. Even after the referendum, there will be no decision on harmonised provincial legislation, even if it is enforced, the province will not be able to be established in this mandate. The proposed referendum is therefore not the subject of any argument, no fact at all. If the referendum is announced, this will be a politically forced decision without substantive and formal value, it will only prove more how reckless and willfully the ruling coalition acts; it will only prove more that the government with the parties supporting the provincial referendum wants only to prove its power, although it will therefore be without the effect of spending more than EUR 3 million of public funds. This is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, irresponsible behaviour and unreasonable behaviour. The parties who make such a decision forget that they want to show and prove only their own inability to make informed and responsible decisions in public. The creation of a regional map of Slovenia is an action that needs the greatest possible consensus, not one or two more votes, which the ruling coalition may have to secure. Hence, responsible conduct and responsible conduct are certainly not required. Thus, I believe that the conduct of the current coalition will also be assessed by most voters and voters and their expectations that this blackmail will bring them much in the elections are at stake. These are the reasons why the Social Democrats will not support any arbitrary and reckless decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, to the Minister of State and to the President of the National Assembly. Since the debate on the establishment or number of provinces in the National Assembly, in the LDS Club, we have expressed doubts about the implementation of the consultation referendum, that it is appropriate to hold a preliminary consultation referendum on the number of provinces in Slovenia. We considered that it was the obligation of Members to take the initiative and responsibility for the decisions taken, by amending the Constitution, which provided the constitutional basis for the introduction of the second level of organisation of local self-government and thus the conditions for the decentralisation of the State of Slovenia, but not to transfer this decision to the people of Slovenia because of the inability of policy to reach an agreement and consensus. Unfortunately, all the government's actions were poorly prepared legislation necessary to round up the package of provincial laws, the incomprehensible attitude of the Prime Minister, Minister Žagar and the work of the coalition, and ultimately the inappropriate, incorrect and suggestive referendum issue created by part of the coalition led to the LDS being forced to join those parliamentary groups that did not see another option after the suspension of the government's SDS-Slovsko-Slovski, the rollerman, as well as the submission of our proposal or the text of the referendum question. All the events after the coalition tabled the original text of the referendum question are farce and in itself evidence of how powerless and unstable the coalition has become. The change in the number and territory of the provinces, just before and during the meeting of the parent committee, the withdrawal of one of the signatories or the withdrawal of support for the referendum, the provision of one of the coalition parties, both the invitation and the decree of the referendum, due to the unilateral decision to reintroduce the 14 provinces will not support this, despite assurances and public interpretations the following morning. These are all facts that speak for themselves. At the point of the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia, the coalition collapsed and became unworthy. The expert arguments no longer apply, the debate is not based on facts, but only a dictatorship and this is a dictatorship of the prime minister and his largest coalition parties. The crown of all is the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, clearly led by a member of the ruling party when, at the request of Mr. Tank and after half an hour's wait for the opposition to return to the meeting, some coalition members, including the chairman of the committee, who requested a recess for consultation, are missing, and the president arrives after half an hour and announces that he is interrupting, going to bed and that he will see us in 11 hours, the next day at 9. This and such conduct has not yet been seen in this National Assembly in this mandate. The only thing we can take for granted in this story is the opinion contained in the report of the parent working body, which undeniably notes that the proposal for a consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia is not appropriate. Of course, this is not enough for the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjati, who is the President of all of us Members of this National Assembly. As he has decided, it is well known, and that is why we are here today and represent these views. All the reference of the coalition to how 85% of municipal councils in Slovenia support the province, how most mayors favor such a law or such a proposal of the provinces, is false, is fake, does not match the truth and does not match in any of the details, so what it really feels among people. People just don't support this number of landscapes. The LDS never questioned the need to introduce the provinces, but through a normal debate in the National Assembly. Reaching consensus on the issue of such importance for the development of certain areas in Slovenia and Slovenia as a whole will not lead to a forced solution. Therefore, we will not support the referendum or invitation to tender at the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	Well-known, distinguished president, minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected visitors on the balcony! In the New Slovenia political party programme, we have written down that we will constantly advocate for the creation of the best living conditions for all citizens, regardless of which area of Slovenia they live in. This is not new, as it also says in the Constitution, which means that every time the authorities have to worry about the realization of this. Nowhere in the constitution does it say that those living in today's underdeveloped areas of Slovenia, such as Prekmurje or Pomurje, must be deprived of much because they live here and not in the central part of Slovenia. Developmental differences, which are so obvious in various regional areas of Slovenia, must be reduced unless completely eliminated. It is hard to imagine that we could achieve this differently than with the decentralisation of Slovenia. It is necessary to transfer tasks to regional areas, including financial resources and certain personnel, as appropriate. With this purpose or under these conditions, we also supported the proposal to amend the Constitution in the New Slovenia Group. Today, in the National Assembly, we could have a second reading of the Law on the Establishment of Provinces and not a debate on the referendum. Of course, if those who supported the change of the Constitution also supported this law at first reading. Today we could decide on compromise solutions that could be acceptable to at least two thirds of Members. We know who didn't do it. Even in Novi Slovenija we were not satisfied with everything, especially some of them not with the proposed number of provinces, because we felt that as few provinces as possible should be held in Slovenia. Above all, because the procedures for the adoption of provincial legislation do not stop, we Members of New Slovenia, most of them, supported the law at first reading. We have come so far as the will of some parties is concerned that it is essential to draw attention to certain facts. The municipalities that had the possibility of connecting to the provinces before the change of the constitution did not do so, and we explained that they were not able to organise themselves. Therefore, it would be appropriate for us to change the Constitution or adopt the law in order to establish the provinces. Otherwise, in New Slovenia we do not move the establishment of landscapes from below without the adoption of other laws such as the Law on the Transfer of Orders, Elections and so on. It is said that we used to speak or criticize more thoughtfully or unjustifiably. We changed the constitution, commissioned the National Assembly to establish the provinces, and came to a conclusion, of course, after the first examination of the law on the closure of the provinces, that even the National Assembly was unable to carry out decentralisation. And what else do we have? One of the solutions on the agenda today. Let us ask people whether they are in favour of establishing provinces in their proposed area. In the New Slovenia Group, most Members will support this proposal for a referendum. Is the right referendum question, in the New Slovenia Group we find it correct. We also believe that if the constitution had not changed, the mayors, the councils of the municipality, could not have taken this power, given that although the law on coherent regional development has been passed and today in Slovenia 12 development regions to decide for themselves, even in that case people living in certain development regions would have to decide. So we support this referendum. And I'm going to end up in a mathematical sense. The proposal is 12 plus 1 and 13 provinces. 13 unknown 13 equations, and that's a viable one. 6, 9 and 12 provinces are one equation with three unknowns, and this is not mathematically viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we still stand firm in the view that the establishment of the provinces is a key project of this coalition. When we talk about the provinces, we talk about the development of Slovenia as a whole. We are talking about the harmonious and polycentric development of Slovenia. Despite all efforts to develop all parts of Slovenia in a comparable way, the statistical indicators tell us not only that the differences in statistical regions are large, but that they are still increasing. The establishment of landscapes is urgently needed to start the development of a new level of local self-government, which today cannot provide ideal solutions to all issues related to the establishment of landscapes. We regret that in the National Assembly, for such or other reasons, we have failed to provide the necessary majority or consensus for the adoption of the Law establishing the provinces. Yet, there are still few who would hope from today’s perspective to claim that the establishment of the congregations was a mistake. It is clear that the municipalities have also helped to develop more neglected areas so far, and it is important to realize that without wider provincial communities, more polycentric development will not be possible. Thus, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are drawn from the positive experience that the establishment of local self-government in the form of municipalities was one of the most important decisions that has passed on the management of local communities to people living there and thus contributed to the more equitable development of Slovenia. In particular, to develop basic infrastructure in the most underdeveloped regions of Slovenia. Despite the achievements of the municipalities so far, the differences between the development of individual regions are still too high due to over-centralisation. In the future, the Slovenian People's Party will also seek to reduce the differences between individual Slovenian regions with measures and policies in different areas, and advocate a balanced or coherent regional development. It is the duty of the State to enable all the people of Slovenia to be able to stay and develop in a sustainable manner. Too many regional differences are to blame for the citizens and citizens living in these less developed regions. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we insist on the establishment of the provinces as soon as possible, as other levels of local self-government. The establishment of the provinces will be based on the reallocation of both employees and financial resources between the country, the provinces and the municipalities. We are confident that they will allow for the additional financial decentralisation of the country, the faster development of our society and the greater well-being of all citizens and citizens. We strive to ensure that the provinces are given the highest possible powers in all areas where this is meaningful and necessary. In fact, we all talk a lot about coherent regional development. Movements in this direction are urgent, but they are also significantly too small and too slow. We have already found that the interests of individual local areas due to dissatisfaction with the head office or the name of the province should not be the price of not establishing the province. Perhaps this is why it is good to hold a consultative referendum on the establishment of the provinces, where all citizens will be able to express their views on the area or the name of their province. There is probably still some doubt as to the purpose of establishing another level of local self-government, but I think that if people were asked about the effects of the establishment of local self-government in the form of municipalities, they have a positive opinion on them in large part. The financing of all parts of Slovenia through municipal budgets has enabled the establishment of emergency infrastructure for all places, including those that have been severely neglected in the larger municipalities. Now, for developmental reasons, it is needed, in particular, a slightly wider regional or provincial approach, because individual municipalities are too small to effectively promote their development in the wider area themselves. In the Slovenian People's Party, one of the proponents, we will support the signing of a consultative referendum on the establishment of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will not really support the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the areas of the provinces. First of all, not because it is procedural, as mentioned earlier, but because this proposal is rooted in the rules and customs of this National Assembly. In the Group of Members, we really believed that the province project was one of the few projects that the coalition and the opposition could carry out together. We also knew this because we were able to agree on the scope and method of constitutional change. But as the talks and discussions on the provinces developed, it became more clear that we have very different ideas about what the provinces should be and what the provinces should do and how to put them into the development concept and efforts of Slovenian society. And it became more clear that we cannot agree on a whole range of important issues between the coalition and the opposition. More than that, it even happened that consent is not even in the coalition itself. That is why we are so much more surprised why two parties, SDS and SLS, continue to push forward, if I may say so, the inseparable concept of landscapes, why they do not take into account the strongly dominant opinion and opinions of the professional public. We cannot help but discern from the Group that the power of professional arguments is being replaced by human expression, counting on patriotism, in the notes, on the patriotism of people, if they do not vote against their province. Let me reject some of the most misleading and unrealistic claims repeated by the advocates of such provinces as they propose and thus the referendum. They say: The provinces they propose will reduce development differences. They won't! The regions they propose are too small to generate those development potentials that they can overcome and contribute to reducing development differences themselves. These landscapes, take any professional literature, empirical studies, analyses, are too small and this claim does not match the truth. Such landscapes as they propose will lead to the fact that everyone will be at a disadvantage and that differences of indifference will certainly not increase, as they will also begin to lagging behind those areas that may now show some greater dynamics in development. 14 provinces, according to advocates, are a political reality. In a sense, they're right. This is a political reality that you have designed for yourself, as the Prime Minister of the Government has thus offered his country to every slightly larger place he visited. And today you face political promises beyond which you cannot and an excellent idea of landscapes and regionalisation is trapped. We do not agree that we should first draw up legislation and then talk about how many provinces there will be and how they should be territorially organised. These questions must be put together. The functions and competences of the provinces depend on the size, manner of the territorial organisation. And that's why the impossible plan, the project, the map that people will get in hand for this referendum to be carried out, is going to be the funniest thing in this country that we can offer people to decide. There will be people and areas in these provinces who have nothing in common. The provinces, respected colleagues and colleagues already exist, in fact, as an informal social territorial organisation of work, employment, education, services and so on. Our task should be to get as close to the borders of the provinces as possible to these informal divisions, and to do so, of course, we do not want to do so. So why this referendum? The referendum has nothing to do with the provinces. In our opinion, this is essentially a specific secret form of electoral campaign against the SDS election campaign, not even the SLS, but it does not yet know, it suggests that people are animated by this and that they are told to go to a referendum, and it proves to them that they work for people, under terms. No, it'll cost taxpayers 2.5 million euros. That's how much this election campaign's gonna cost us before the election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me start by saying that the discussions around the provinces and the referendum on the provinces are more hectic than today is shown in this hall; I see that people are still quite calm. But it is even more hectic and today there is no telling what may erupt tomorrow, after tomorrow or within a week of this provincial legislation. This is what we in the DeSUS Group are warning and we are counting on everyone as sober as possible to draw conclusions that will not only be intended for this period in which we are now living, but that will indeed be intended for the well-being of Slovenia and its further development. That there is something about it, surely there are facts that cannot be overlooked when we remember how many meetings, how many meetings we had, how unsuccessful and how controversial they were, what we had to translate, what meetings we called, how many meetings we could hear, how many different options were drawn in the night, how many names changed, how many seats and so on and so on. For the DeSUS Group and for the client, I must say that she did not participate in any of this. So we didn't draw the line on the Slovenian map so overnight, and it's probably right to say it honestly. Although our starting point has always been to change the situation in Slovenia as regards uneven regional development, much has to be done to weaken centralism, to allow discussion as long as possible. We have also sat on a number of committees to make sure that the matter continues so as not to collapse in order to seek further wider consensus, a broader consensus in the National Assembly. We have seen, today, that this is impossible in this National Assembly and we are not capable of broad consensus, we are able to vote for one vote and thus divide Slovenia. That's not good. Let me say, therefore, that we have once again looked back at what we have written about the provinces in the coalition treaty. One whole sentence writes about it in this coalition contract. And it says in this sentence that our development regions can turn into landscapes, that this means, if this happens, a great burden for public finances and that the coalition does not in any way commit itself to any speed or deadline forecasting when this will happen. Later, these things changed. Today we know that everything is being presented as an emergency, we are in a very hurry today, we say that there will be no financial burden, that everything will be neutral, but because today we have been talking about what the coalition offers and what not, let me say that these are not offers involving the DeSUS Group or the DesSUS party. We were against the referendum when the opposition announced it. At the time, the entire coalition was against it, and the prime minister was against it. We are also against the referendum today, when one part of the coalition "forces" and is also advocated by the President of the Government and opposed by the opposition. And if we look at ourselves that way, purely objectively, we see that we are the only ones left with the same attitude, then January and today. I would therefore like to say that we do not want to prevent the possibility that, if so decided, people will also say what they think about the referendum, as I say, that it is unnecessary for us to take responsibility for decisions. However, if this is possible, this will not be the position of a party or a group of Members. Each Member of the DeSUS Group will decide on its own whether to press one or the other key. We will by no means guarantee all the votes, I can say this in advance, and I must say that, as far as I am concerned, my vote will certainly not be. I believe that this is premature, that this is unnecessary, and that it is not necessary for all political adventures to take place in the following [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] created with government patronage. [[...]] The DeSUS Group will vote on its own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Hello, everybody! The referendum on the provinces, this consultative referendum, is pure nonsense. It is a matter of smashing Slovenia, which has neither tail nor head, and destroying the Republic of Slovenia and its power, because with the fragmentation of the country in fourteen small small small provinces, when compared with the provinces elsewhere in Europe, it means nothing more than a possibility for foreigners to grab us, and when the governors in these provinces have all the opportunity and everything in their hands, they will be able to sell us to the left-hand side and, given the way in which their powers are being prepared, the Minister will not be able to say anything. Everything will be in the hands of that governor who will decide what he will do almost with his own property. I think what we're doing is completely stupid, this stupidity started with the United List with Mr Bohince, and then there was some sobriety in Parliament that it didn't go through, today it was taken over by the ruling party of the coalition and continues the nonsense they started in the United List. One wonders where the seriousness of work and action is here. The development you so promise; development is not a province, gentlemen, development is an investment, invest in the provinces, connect the landscapes. Koroška still has no road to connect with Slovenia! But now, if you make the province of Koroška, everything will blossom? Make the roads, because it's about time you made it, you promised it a long time ago, and now it's nothing. That's what needs to be done. Prekmurje! If you cut off Prekmurje, will it just bloom? Why? The wall will go to hell, but they'll have a good time, and they'll all be rich, just fine. Nonsense, stupidity! But what coherent regional development can you promise? Please, what consistent regional development? Because already there are differences from one to two of the provinces that are on the worse, and those that are, not at the best, but at the better. And who's going to be putting money from one province to another, already there are problems when the Ljubljana Municipality fights to get some money back, but then what happens in time? And to whom it is in the interest of getting Slovenia long and narrow. And the system of how this referendum is to be carried out so that every place can vote on itself or be a province or not, please! And then we'd have 60,000 or 70,000 people. Where do you live? Go look in Italy and you'll see how many provinces there are, a million and a half to three million! Go to France, go to Spain, go to Austria, go anywhere. And we as a calf, the system was built at the time when the communists introduced the borders, and even they found that this was stupid, because if we had a congregation and we had a republic, now we would have hit something here in the meantime to serve one well and to get one position in the government, where we don't have to do anything, but the money runs in our pockets or you do something or do nothing. That means 2,000 new bureaucrats. From where? The provinces would have 'em furrowed. How, if they don't have the money for themselves. Please! Tell me, how many new factories are being built in Slovenia? Damn it. We're off the road. I don't know where the railroad is. Is the railroad building? [[...]] It's been worth a year to do something, and you're not capable of modernizing the track. Do it. This is a development for the provinces, here people will have their money, here their earnings and prosperity for their children. Not some kind of referendum, which is its own purpose, for which we will throw out a window of 2 million and a half euros, at a time when people are barely "knocking" over the place. I think it's total nonsense and stupidity. And I am now predicting, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, an obstruction for this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Your Honors are here! If we're trying to introduce a little more seriously the "matter" that's ahead of us today. Why a little more serious? Because Slovenian politics has been trying since independence to continue playing or to establish the provinces. We must all acknowledge a certain degree of incompetence that we have failed to establish the landscape in our country until this year, and everything shows that nothing will be different this year as well. In the meantime, we've changed the constitution or, rather, you've changed the constitution in between. Personally and in the context of the Lip Group, we are advocates for the smallest possible division of our country, which, geographically speaking, is no longer a large country today. Of course, we are great citizens in it, but geographically, our country is small, and we therefore assume that the fragmentation proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to 14 provincial units is inappropriate. Improper for a number of reasons. For the first time, if we look at it; which was also exposed in one of the presentations of the parliamentary groups; in Slovenia in 1994, we had several ten municipalities at the beginning of the establishment of the municipalities or on the day of the first elections to local communities. Today this number has increased to 210. And all of us, some of us will admit it, some of us will just "flash" it, that most of the congregations were created by political lobbying. So from every single power, because they wanted political parties to usurp power on individual microlevels within our country. In the context of the Lipa Group, we also claim that 210 municipalities within our country are already too many. That these congregations do not carry out what they should or should do in other European cities. Therefore, a speech about whether the moment we have provinces in Slovenia should be this year, the second year or two years from now, in order to achieve even development. Of course not. Anyone between us today and here will claim that even development will be established at the time of the establishment of the provinces, this very deeply misleads the Slovenian state or better said Slovenian citizens and citizens. Someone in front of me said that everything depends on people who send money through logistics through the economy at individual ends of Slovenia. And that's true. We will not have any new connections when the provinces are established, because the fact is that the country should finance, not the province, those basic logistics connections. In the context of the Lip Group, we have already advocated a small number of provinces, and these should be enshrined in the Constitution. In order not to change the number of provinces with each authority. In order not to see a change in the provinces from 14 to 16, 16 to 32 in 2014 due to the current, then current authorities, and not to repeat the story of municipalities that grew several times in good ten years. We have also proposed to the National Assembly a law establishing the provinces. No member group represented in this National Assembly gave a positive opinion on the draft law itself. And if we're wondering today who holds a fig in his pocket, who doesn't care about the provinces, whether it's a small number, a medium number, or an absurd high number, as suggested by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that's 14, so we have to admit to ourselves, better said, all present, everyone, the fact is that the provinces are an election story. The fact is that a possible referendum, which I sincerely hope will not occur, is an electoral story and the fact is that you are trying, in particular the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to determine the political will beforehand and thereby adjust your electoral campaign. But the saddest part of all of this is that this is an extremely expensive matter and that only with the share of this money that you otherwise devote to the referendum could you actually reduce the differences between the individual units. In the context of the proposal for a referendum, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I firmly believe, is deceiving in the most circumstantial way. In 14 areas surrounded by units, the government will ask more or less the same sentence. Are you up for living in this country? What happens if there is no positive response in one of the 14 areas. This is where the surrounding provinces fall. Instead, if you go to the referendum to at least find out how many provinces people want, you are asking them with this referendum question under the simple question: Are you for the fact that there are 14 provinces in Slovenia? This is absolutely too much at the discretion of the Lipa Group. Therefore, our support for this act will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision: we are deciding on the following proposal for a decision: A consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia is being held. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Žnidaršič, do you have a procedural proposal or will you explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before the vote, the Group would like to take advantage of the business opportunity to reconsider how we will vote. Please take a 45-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Školč also has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already announced to the Secretary of the Assembly that we, too, need to think together with others, with whom we have calculated that this point will not actually be included on the agenda at all. We would be less satisfied, so we will consult within this time taken by Mr Žnidaršič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Good. After the stage of explanation of vote, I will order a 45-minute recess, as requested, before the vote. Mr Janc, an explanation of vote, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, welcome to the gallery! Given that we have been talking about these provinces for a really long time, the whole mandate, and certainly in the last few months very intensively, I must say that so much of the swindling that I hear in the National Assembly, so much of the nagging of this historic project of this government, this National Assembly, man cannot believe that this is possible. Well, obviously it's possible. Or, unfortunately, time is not right again to adopt legislation, whether the number of landscapes is the reason, or the reason, I don't know where else. Some people say once, we want a referendum, that's enough. Then they talk all of a sudden, and now we don't want a referendum because it's too expensive. I'm surprised. I think that this coalition has tried to do everything, including to follow the opposition, in terms of correcting the map that each Member would draw in his own way and each Mayor has drawn in his own way; but such a map does not exist. But there is a compromise. And it was the coalition that went this way now to try to follow the comments. One is this referendum, which I do not personally support. I do not think that referendums are necessary because this country has a National Assembly, because voters have sent MPs to the National Assembly to decide on their behalf and for them and also on provincial legislation. But when you opposition colleagues wanted this referendum, the coalition accepted it. Okay, let's call it a referendum, we've drawn up a map of corrections to which you've had certain concerns and problems. We are trying to follow this up, however, in this mandate, to conclude this extremely important story. As far as developmental landscapes are concerned, that's what you're saying, those who obviously no longer have contact with the base where some of you come from. You obviously don't listen to people from Prekmur, Posav, White landscape, Koroška and so on. You obviously don't know what you're talking about, or you want to disrupt this project at this time. And I think it's completely incorrect, no arguments, no substantive reasons. Finally, I feel that some of the opposition's colleagues are afraid of the referendum outcome - what if this referendum succeeds, what will we do then? Clearly, the fear of your door is that the referendum will not succeed, we will not leave it through, because then we will have no more reason why we do not want the landscape in Slovenia. The Slovenian People's Party will be pleased to support this proposal. And, of course, I hope that we will also get the provinces in this mandate if we want a more friendly, balanced and more coherent Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Minister of Cooperation! The Slovenian Democratic Party, as it has been forecasting and advocating for this country to experience more coherent regional development, and sees the only unique opportunity through the establishment of the provinces, of course it will do so. Colleagues and colleagues. I just can't believe that after 12 years of working in the National Assembly, I hear from some who are involved in politics much more time than I am, so much and so much nonsense. To talk about stupidity, or it may also be that some simply did not go to work bodies and obstruct the meeting of the National Assembly so that they would hear that some of their amendments were adopted in the rest of the legislation. At the time of adoption of the legislation, we have already announced, already in the second reading, that we will take some amendments to the opposition into account in the third reading. It's just not true, or would you say, it's already been heard. Some people used to say to us, "Such a small country, but no, you'll eat grass, we'll feed on pastures" and so on. None of this happened. Today we are chairing the European Union. In 1994. Some in Cardel’s congregations thought that this was all possible and that now that we let go of power among the people, they were worried that we had given the people [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] We didn't give it to him. [[...]] We gave him the opportunity and the opportunity to develop. Colleagues and colleagues, so far neither of the congregations has told you - please join us. Since they did not have the basic basics before, they are now finally creating them. And if we had the provinces and I'm sure and of course you're afraid of that you voted against the establishment of the province on February 1st, that people will say that they will reload you: you have a salary, so you are there to vote these provinces. However, do not be afraid, colleagues and colleagues, we will defend you in public and we will say - yes, anyone who can commit a sin and repent regrets and then makes amends. You'll come to the juvie exam and we'll vote the provinces in July. Don't be afraid. The Slovenian people know what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you. Explanation on its own behalf. I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. The application shall be made for reasons in its own name. Please sign in. Mr. Contic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Slovenian people already know what they are doing, but many individuals do not if they could [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Well, it's interesting to find Mr. Puksic in this, [[...]] [[...]] [[Laugh.]] There are probably some reasons for that. [[...]] The referendum itself, as it is written, I certainly will not support it without any difficulty. I objected to the referendum in January, in the original text. I also oppose the referendum at this time, as it is written. This referendum, which is proposed, does not give any answer. This referendum will, of course, be able to show support and I expect it in certain areas. However, it can happen that there will be no support in a given area. Then how will we react to people's availability? As we reacted to the establishment of congregations when we had a consultative referendum, the National Assembly decided in its own way, even in contrast with certain congregations. Speaking of mergers and the abolition of individual congregations. You know, if we financially encourage the division of congregations into smaller units, into smaller congregations, this is, of course, a completely logical story, and this has happened to us. If we say that one unit had 30 units of funding, but when it split into two parts they both got 20, of course it's logical that people make that decision, and they've probably made that decision on the basis of that. So the referendum, which does not give the right answers, is a referendum that is kind of a predetermined answer and a referendum that asks only in certain areas, of course has no substantive value, no reference value to the law-makers, nor to us who adopt laws later in order to decide what we really want.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you. On behalf of myself, it is clear that I will not support this proposal for a referendum, which, of course, we do not know what we will decide on. I don't know, we can decide because there's no question, we can decide whether it's right that municipalities have the right to establish and raise duck families and ducks in lakes and pools. We don't have a question. What are we going to answer? How do you know what question will then be accepted on the working body and then again, however, confirmed? In short, what do we decide? Another time. If we're talking about these provinces, like you wanted to get them through the committee, then I'm very afraid that the referendum will succeed. The referendum will definitely succeed in most cases, and exactly what we're reading is this manipulation. Exactly that manipulation. That you know well that all credible public opinion polls, if you ask people, say they prefer to be for a smaller number of landscapes than for larger ones, and this is clearly proven. While at the referendum, of course, everyone will act patriotic and say, "If there are others for the provinces, why wouldn't I be for my little country?" In this there is fraud and political indiscretion, an ethical and moral dispute in asking such a question. Without it deciding what kind of landscapes we actually want, if you want to put it to the referendum. However, I do not think that there is a need for policy and expertise to agree on this. That is why, of course, we will not get the landscapes, but just another illusion, one more fraud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I expected that today and tomorrow there would be a lot of distractions and a lot of demagogies in the National Assembly. We have been talking for a few years about the establishment of the provinces, but we are talking about how we would not only share Slovenia territorially, but what powers we would give to the provinces, how we would design a funding system, and how, after all, as responsible Members and Members, we would find a closer solution that would be largely acceptable to us even if we asked citizens about this division and competences later. Only today, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition or the majority, of the three coalition parties, are you asking us to decide on your proposal. You are not prepared to hear that it would be right for the proposal to be made at the consultation referendum to take account of an alternative, but not just of the sharing of what the ruling coalition had in mind. In order to be right, we have the opportunity to talk at the same time about substantive solutions, but not only about how we will promise people before the elections, as you say today, that only by establishing the landscapes and precisely the 14 landscapes you have imagined, at once in Slovenia all good, all the regional problems will be solved, honey and milk will also flow in Prekmurje, in Koroška, and elsewhere, which is simply not true. If we wanted to ensure faster regional development, we could also provide it through the statistical regions we have and through the country's activities to help them, but not to do so, so proposals such as [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am among those who are for the establishment of landscapes, but with a slightly different content, with other powers. We are now deciding on the call for a referendum on this subject. And I will not vote in favour of this referendum. There are two main reasons. The first is that we will accidentally blow up close to three million euros and because we will not get a response to the referendum and this referendum is pure manipulation of voters. These stories, which you spend in this Parliament and always compare Ljubljana with Prekmurje or the least developed municipality of Kuzma, are a simple mockery of people. Because this government has done little for Prekmurje in this mandate, it will offer a referendum of EUR 3 million at the end of its term of office. The great stories that have been spent after Prekmurje on water supply, on higher education institutions, we today establish private Jambrek universities, and Prekmurje or municipalities finance the higher education program themselves. My friend Jelinčič mentioned Mura. Big stories and visits to the ministers, what's gonna happen. Nothing happened. Here we have written answers that the government will not be monitoring, it will not give anything. However, it promises to give more than the previous governments. For these reasons, there is an ever-increasing gap. The country, too, but not the referendum. Someone in this country is easily spending millions, thousands, they don't understand anymore. One blends from millions of euros and is carried outside the country to Russia, spends at home, and calls for referendums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! We have supported, and personally, the establishment of the provinces, and we have no problems in this regard as to the future. However, our support was weekly until it showed that we would reach a broader consensus on the legislation needed to establish the provinces. Since there has been no broader consensus, for us or for me, every moment of time and every tolar that we will spend on the debate and making any decisions on the subject has been thrown aside. Because some of you who know what you're talking about have forgotten that we need 60 votes to make any of this happen. And those 60 votes won't be in the next term if we do what we're doing right now. If we work hard, something that can't be done by force, and in my firm belief, it can't happen. Telling people now that they're going to decide that they're going to have landscapes, that's stupid if I count down that it's also confused with common sense, because it's not possible to do that without a wider consensus. And because of this, the offer to people is completely fake and "par excellence". And in this sense, I will oppose myself and no one can convince me to support a referendum that we do not know what he will decide on and which certainly cannot produce any results and is already known in advance. All of them don't know what they're talking about, who think otherwise, who promise a result that can't be guaranteed unless someone can win 60 votes, alone or in a company. Thank you very much. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I oppose both the establishment of the provinces and the referendum for the establishment of the provinces. One and the other, we can say, is just a pre-election circus that has no use for taxpayers. If taxpayers really asked how much the provinces would cost them, they would certainly say no, we do not need the provinces. Do you think bureaucrat services around these provinces will bring added value? To reduce these differences between the provinces or between the places of these bureaucratic services? Please! One who has a serious purpose, and a serious country, would have done so by now. It has all the possibilities, all the tools to make roads, institutions, everything, from Tolmin to Moore and Prekmur and whatever. If it's willful, it's done. This will only be an additional door for our citizens to open. They already have a lot of them. They have municipal, state, and now they're going to have provincial. And my constituents in Ribnica will have to open another door in Ljubljana, state and regional. Huge costs for nothing. In short, in other countries, they are considering how a large million - and - a - half - a - million - population country could unite them, while in our country the areas that are not the size of one honest congregation. And also, dear fellows of the opposition, there is also no wisdom in you. You have advocated an invitation to a referendum to ask. But since you don't like the question, there's something else. Decide what it is, honestly think about what this proposal for regionalisation means in Slovenia and you will not see any added value, nothing, a lot of noise for nothing or a lot of costs. However, I am very much in favour of the European region. In order for Slovenia to become the centre of the European region and then also include what we dream of being the entire national body within one province, the European region. So, I'm going to vote against it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The most common word I have heard today, in addition to the campaign, was decentralisation. Does that really mean the provinces? Is the province really the foundation of any decentralisation? Is it true that every congregation in the country will fail if we do not support this referendum today? In Slovenia we have no number of city districts and local communities. Nothing but city councils and municipal councils. We have the State Council, we have the National Assembly. Every third Slovenian in this country deals without having provinces, with politics. Is this country so rich that all this structure can pay? We'll also introduce the regions. Is the region really the foundation of any decentralisation? Did this government take any ministry from Ljubljana, put it in Mursko Sobota, Maribor, I don't think so. Has this government done anything for companies, like Paloma, that keep the whole region up? Even the statistical region. Did she do something? It's not. And today, I'm hearing from you that everyone who opposes throwing money away for one referendum, that we're going to cause some kind of chaos in this country. Please! More or less every citizen of this country is already assigned to a newspaper, with more than one channel called the government coalition at home on TV. People think. They won't fall for you. First, you do something for them, and in principle you do not know what these provinces will bring them, so you have put all your responsibility upon them now. Make up your mind to go to the referendum. For the rest of your life you'll have an excuse, even if the matter doesn't have money and it won't "snooze" as we say in Styria, you'll say, "You wanted it, we just listened to you." Don't lie to me. Take responsibility, do something for this decentralisation. I will oppose the introduction of the referendum myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I think this maneuver has only one goal. Allowing the ruling coalition to point its finger before the elections, which are against the decentralisation of Slovenia or against the provinces. It's absolutely nothing else. If we were honest with each other, we would support the first proposal that we have already prepared in Zares and ask exactly what you wrote. He asked if the people in Slovenia were thirteen or fourteen, then, as you wrote, you "consumed" one optical fraud and you want to ask people, are for, say, Ljubljana as a single province, the northern Primorska for a single province. But look, gentlemen, you can write 25 landscapes, ask the Belokrans if they're for your country, Belokran. You can ask Goričko if it's for your country and you'll get the answer "yes". Because someone would oppose their own country. You ask people what regionalisation they are for in Slovenia. Allow alternatives. And then you'll get the right answer. And you measured exactly if you asked them about 14 or 13 provinces, as we suggested, you'd lose. That's why you're asking us this. But you're asking optical fraud. And it's a big scam, nothing else that serves for pre-election purposes, and you don't care if you spend three million euros on it. People should be interested in that. But there's something else I need to tell you. Remember your trade referendums, where you got people's clear will, and you didn't respect them. Remember the referendums that the right hand also requested for congregations where 3/4 of the people were against, and yet you established congregations there. And that's an unfair and big scam that you're going on the electoral front for speculative purposes in order to achieve what you've set yourself. And that's just an answer, because you know exactly what you're saying, and tell people that there can't be a province until the election. And that's not how long it's been. This is against regionalisation, what you are doing, not regionalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Depending on the will expressed, I am reopening a circle to apply for an explanation in my own name. Please. In addition, 13 Members have been notified. The first one has the word of Ambassador Willy Rezman. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I object to this referendum on the provinces from 9 January onwards, if I recall correctly, the first request for it was made. I'm going to insist on this to the end, because I think we have enough reason to do this. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am sorry, to my assessment, that those who offer the referendum act as illusionists. We'd like to offer people something that's not real. They offer development and offer decentralisation through decision-making. They're not able to separate one from another from one from another about development, about decentralisation, and another from another about how to commit our own responsibility to someone else, so that when we're probably going to make a mistake, we can say yes, because that's what people wanted. This is usually the case when Members and Members do not want to take responsibility for their own shoulders, then people are invited and the blame is passed on to them. Once again, let me repeat a familiar thought that when the government falls to the exam, they have to go to the correctional center. And that's how it's gonna be in this case. We are not talking about people having more money for their own development in the provinces because of the referendum, but we are talking about how to pass through the ability or our inability to decide on someone else. This Parliament, unfortunately, is not capable of a broad consensus, so I think it is only right that I leave this task to regionalise Slovenia, the other, the future Parliament, which none of us knows whether we will still be there or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When we proposed a referendum on the provinces in the opposition in January, the President of the Government strongly opposed it. Today, the ruling coalition vehemently requires the holding of an advisory referendum, which is not even binding on the legislator. It is therefore more than obvious for the current coalition that it does not matter whether someone proposes a good or bad proposal. It is important who proposes such a proposal. If the proposal is in the interest of the ruling coalition, it shall be taken into account by the serious infringements of the National Assembly's rules of procedure. And that's what happened in this case. You remember from the beginning of our famous saying democracy, when it was said, "No matter what anyone knows, it's important that it's ours."And your proposal will obviously succeed and you will get a referendum. I think costs are also a very important factor. The referendum is not binding and it can happen that this cost will float through the water. In addition, the parties are not prepared for the provincial elections this fall or have a fig in their pocket. It is obvious that the ruling coalition has invented a consultative referendum for a simple reason to receive free political agitation at the expense of taxpayers for about a month. And that's, I think, the only real reason he wants this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Member Milan Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. I confirm what I said earlier in the presentation. I will oppose the referendum and I think it is completely foolish to ask those who have repeatedly made it clear that they are against such provinces as this government proposes. I'm surprised at this by one of the drive, for me, by some false effort, which mainly stems from the SLS. What Mr. Janc is saying is simply not true. The landscapes are not wanted by people in Slovenia. This was not supported by the municipal councils, and the mayors did not unreservedly support it, but it was that everything that had been done so far had been faked. And this same SLS only does this because they sensed and sensed that the province of Posavije was what this organized group was supposed to bring some new value to. Just because local interests prevail in this Posavial environment, we must adapt our vote to their interest and vote in favour of the provinces. I'm not in this story that way. If asked in Maribor, Maribor definitely rejects such forms of landscapes as they suggest in this case. Maribor, through all the public debates that have been, has shown that this is nonsense. The government doesn't want to listen to this, our colleagues in this environment don't want to listen to this and, of course, we have to defend this from you who want to just spend 2.5 million euros. Isn't this nonsense at a time when we all figure out how we lack resources, what opportunities there are in the budget, the government wants to spend 2.5 million to 3 million euros? That's slow. People, I don't think they'll appreciate it. I think that if the referendum comes, the debate will show that we are right. The result you're promising from this will be the opposite. You'll lose those supporters you had when you spoke to them for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Borut Sayovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, I strongly oppose the referendum on the provinces in the hot pre-election period. They are simply too serious and too important a subject to be left to daily politics. What people think about these provinces and what the mayors think is often a question. However, all our communications in the public tribunals were not as they are now being sold and illustrated by the current political authority. There never was and there's no question of the province yes or no. We are for the provinces, but for the provinces that have a clear content, and above all clear funding to know who is drinking and who is paying. Not that the landscapes will be a parking lot of off-duty politicians and an additional bureaucratic upgrade. It has been heard several times in these debates that if we have provinces, then we will distribute an additional billion and 200 million euros to the municipalities. Never and never did any of you gentlemen explain to me where we have this money, and if we do, why don't you give it to us primarily for roads, for watercourses and for European projects. In the case of European and development projects, the ministries and this country place such restrictions on the fact that a number of municipalities are in poor financial situation in a situation where they no longer have their resources and are not applying for these projects. Or such indiscretions as they come, for example, from your ministry that we must present invoices and invoices as early as 30 September, so that a regional development project can be granted, and we will be granted approval in July and August. How can a matter be done in a good and good way? I simply object to such areas, which are, at the request of policy, but not at the people's wishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself will support this proposal for an advisory referendum, because this is simply the only weapon left against the strong efforts of those in the country who have done everything in recent years to get Slovenia takunized, that billions of money have flown into the pockets of some tycoons. Today, they are talking about €3 million as a major problem for Slovenia. And when you planned the Taiwanation of Slovenia, you wrapped it in a cellophane of national interest. Where is the national interest now? The regions, however, are in the national interest. In the interest of at least 80% of all Slovenians, Slovenia will develop more normally. And you are afraid that your financial oligarchs, your bosses, would tell you that you have helped make Slovenia more evenly developed. That is why you are one who opposes these regions, thieves of the equal future of our children and future generations. And it is very sad that they also sit among them from Prekmur, from Styria, from Maribor, from the White Landscape, from Primorska. All of these regions are significantly more. And this is the only weapon against the powerful centralisation that rules this country. And I ask myself, or I ask myself, "Why are you so lame?" And I answer with Yank, "You're afraid of the Slovenes." You're afraid of the countryside because it's the only weapon against your backstage plans. And it's not true that the referendum brings no direction. You're very afraid of this directive, very, very much, four months before the elections. And you're trying to stop it in every way. You're not gonna make it!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Well, I almost got scared of the thunderbolt in front of me, so I don't even know if I'd say anything, I don't. But as far as Slovenian lands are concerned, things are clear to me. When I'm invited to the White Land, I know where to go. If they tell me, come to Prlecia, and I know where to go. I can even go to Styrian, and I can go to Pohorje and somewhere else. As far as the historical work is concerned, it is very clear that no one will take this from the Slovenians, not this government, nor any other government. People know where we live. That's why it's stupid to give EUR 3 million to people to ask if they know where they live. For the question as it is raised in different regions can in fact be reduced to very simple: "Are you for your country?" This is a general question. And the answer, of course, is very clear. Like the answer to the question, "Do you know where you live?" And people could say that. But to spend 3 million euros on this, in order to recover, say, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Pukšič, and I don't know who else, threatened and threatened here, but, of course, it is not a waste of money, but I suggest that, when such a speech is used in the National Assembly, such a language is to be paid for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this referendum myself, because it seems completely unnecessary to me, and not only that, but also a completely useless waste of money. What's he asking us? He's asking us if we'd eat fruit. Well, then probably most people will decide that the fruit would be fine, and then they'll give us pears, apples, bananas, which they will. Yeah, I don't want to get asked that question or answer it, because it doesn't solve anything. And at least one member of the committee has declared that this referendum is essentially political pressure on all those who are trying to think with their heads, for all those who also want such landscapes that will be developmental, such landscapes that will not only give my Pomura enough money, but, above all, enable the opportunities for development, the opportunities for what the coalition is always saying: coherent regional development. Look, these provinces, as we had them on the table, unfortunately don't allow that. This referendum question, which we are preparing, helps us to do so even less. On the contrary. It's just that someone is looking for a sinful goat, a sinful goat, a post-festum to negotiate a coalition unsuccessfully, who in the future knew that it would need two thirds of the votes that she knew would have to offer such a solution that would be acceptable to the wider majority, but she didn't. And now that the thing has fallen into the water, it runs into different exits, different solutions. And the referendum, once again, will not save anything. It will not improve the law, it will not give us regions that provide synergies to ensure that regions develop more quickly. No, this referendum will be just another extra pressure on those we don't want to talk about, once again, being farmers in the chess field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. However, Member Milan M. Squeakl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u82	Good afternoon! The establishment of landscapes is certainly one of the most important issues that policy must address in a responsible, consensual and smart manner. Postponing this to citizens and citizens with a prepared referendum question means that we are working irresponsiblely here, not to say unwisely. The government and coalition have not prepared the answers to the fundamental questions: what are the provinces we want, what will they do, how much will they cost, how will we finance them, and, consequently, how much will be 3, 6, 8, 14, 25. Now the coalition has said no, each small group of congregations will be asked if they want to have their own province. This is irresponsible and foolish work for me, so I object to the referendum. In the fall, however, people will have to decide what kind of policy they want to have: unwise, irresponsible, such that fundamental issues are passed on by one or the other populist referendum on them or by responsible policy. And I believe that if such a will is in the next term of the National Assembly, we will have to answer the questions raised first: what will these provinces do, how much money will they need to do, and, consequently, how much should they be, what their borders should be and how should they be included in European links. The answers to these questions must be given to the electorate and not the other way around. This is the responsibility of the National Assembly. And what you're doing today is foolish, irresponsible. I object to the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Member Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I think the landscapes are necessary. This enables the decentralisation of Slovenia. If I say simply, if you're born in one less developed province, you're statistically doomed, if not the other, to live on average for about five years less than the one born in a developed province, for example, like this is Ljubljana. That's one argument. The other arguments presented here by the opposition are indeed political. They always explained that a political decision or a solution was a referendum where people were supposed to decide. It's a political solution. They forgot to say that it is possible for a political solution to prevent a referendum and to prevent people from making decisions at a referendum on what they want. Then, of course, the next argument is the number of landscapes and I don't know what else. Listen to whether people in Posavje should now decide about the Gorena Province or Gorenja Obavij. I think it's right for everyone to decide their own country. As far as the law is concerned. It's been preparing for quite a while, more than 10,000 hours have been invested, you're all aware of it, and it's not any speed, as you say, matters are being resolved before the elections. It's a project that's been going on long enough, and I think it's time we did it. If I were to say briefly, I think about the money itself, the 2 million and a half euros, as you say, how much would it cost? This is the best investment for decentralisation. Best investment for those poor provinces. This amount is negligible compared to what the provinces would bring or would bring to these less developed provinces. I think it is right that the provinces decide for themselves what they will do and how they will use that money, but not that it is decided in Ljubljana. That is why, of course, I will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Much of what we are listening to here today would be more relevant in the middle of the debate when the law on mental health is on the agenda. And I must say that the referendum, which in fact has no content and has no referendum question, is before us an empty sheet and, in fact, we are sitting here because of the exercise that the President of the National Assembly is performing, we simply cannot support such a referendum. Today, we are just hearing what a referendum question should look like. So much in a formal sense. Otherwise, the advocates of the referendum have been perpetuating us, convincing us all this afternoon how citizens and citizens will be drained of honey and milk. The first such argument is new jobs. I agree. Unfortunately, these new jobs will mainly be created by new officials and new officials. More than 500 will fall in these landscape fields, which, of course, will actually get new jobs. And another argument. Perhaps after the landscapes draw better and better on European funds. This is the response given by the coalition after we know that Slovenia is actually a net payer in the European Union at the moment and how very unsuccessful we have been in drawing these funds from Europe. Obviously, they should be better later, although they could do all this with the existing structure and the existing set. Finally, I am interested in what the referendum question on this central Slovenia will be. There's no answer, we don't know anything, twelve plus one, whether it's some region from Kamnik to Kočev [[End warning sign]] which has already been built-in, pre-established conflict and pre-established system, which is condemned not by some non-life group of areas that do not belong together. That's just the kind of thing I'm dealing with. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting! In Slovenia we started the introduction of local self-government in 1994. We were successful, but Slovenia is still too unitary a state. We have, in fact, all of us together, found that we need a second level of local self-government. Unfortunately, however, this curse of the pre-election year is that the opposition simply does not want to participate in this project. This is what I myself have seen when we sat together before the vote in January, and I am accompanied by a champion of the Social Democrats, who verbally and non-verbally announced that they are no longer involved in this project. Someone said we have statistical regions in Slovenia. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, who in the statistical region should I ask for responsibility, why this is the beloved Pomurje or Prekmurje, which we all like to talk about, some of you are also making fun of, I have very well understood why it is least developed. Who do you want me to ask? I'm interested in responsibility! Perhaps those who once created a social political system, when we all managed everything, you may not be interested in responsibility. I'm interested in responsibility. If you're saying I should ask the government. Okay, I'll ask the government. Is it even possible that this government, which has Slovenia in its hands, can bring the development level of Pomur to the level of development of the central Slovenian region within three years. Some say 2 to 3 million euros, terrible money! I agree, a lot of money, a tax collector. For orientation only: The province of Pomur would receive around €67 million per year under the law on the financing of the provinces. The referendum costs between €2 million and €3 million. It's a lot, but let's put these things on the scale. I am sure that we need the provinces in Slovenia. I will support the proposal for an advisory referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you. This debate on the call for a referendum reminds me of the creators of a reality show. As this does not have anything to do with reality, because the illusion of reality, including the referendum to be decided on, will not answer the fundamental questions. We promise people that they will influence what lands and how many provinces we will get. None of this is true, because at the same time we heard right from the mouth of colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, how all the legislation is ready, everything is decided, now all they need is confirmation of the project they have invested in, as appears to be a lot of political capital. And before the elections, they can't let him out of their hands, so they'll have a free election campaign. Like that train with signs of SDS, which was on Slovenian railways. We will not decide anything at this referendum, which would substantially change powers, which would change funding sources, which would change areas, names and other things. And to say that those who oppose the fourteen provinces, we don't know the opinion of people, but it's a bit of a fat lie. Because the coalition MPs wanted to force and intimidate us, there was none of them, but we all felt united that we wanted a strong province in Maribor, and that at the number fourteen, and probably twelve plus one, it changed quickly into fourteen, it cannot be guaranteed. Come on, let's get real! We're not in a time of magic, we're in a time of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you very much. However, Member Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you very much, once again, colleagues, Minister with colleagues, Vice-President of the National Assembly! Some today wondered what kind of referendum it was for citizens and citizens to decide on a specific province. Yeah, I'm asking you nicely, because I'm actually laughing on one side and crying on the other. I thought I'd cry out there and wipe my face off the way you're acting. What, did we ask citizens and citizens? In the congregation, I don't know, St. Andraž in Slovenski Goricah, or if they want a congregation in Piran? Or is it about wanting a congregation in Gorička? No, MPs and MPs. Remember, it's not that far back. We asked them if they wanted a congregation in St. Andrazu, those who live there? This is a relevant question. What are we going to ask today? Do they want the province with certain congregations to be as we suggest? On what basis do we propose it? Based on a profession that worked for at least ten years on it. Yeah, based on a profession that worked for at least ten years on it. On the basis of a decision taken by the Government in 2004, led by the current Member of Parliament, Tone Rop. Based on what else? On the basis of a decision to amend the Constitution, supported by the opposition. And of course, based on the content produced by this government, the Ministry of Regional Development based on six laws. And colleagues and colleagues! There will be other options for those who live in these congregations. Congregations, municipal councils will also be able to decide whether to be in central Slovenia or in the province of Goran [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Since I still see the desire to explain our voice, we're opening a third round. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. In addition, we have six speakers reported to explain the vote. The first one gets the word of Member Martin Mikolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I also believe that it is right that people in different regions of Slovenia, where the provinces are to be created, decide whether they are for the provinces or not at the final stage. As I said in my position earlier, most of us in the New Slovenia Group believe that this is right because it is now one of the possible solutions for moving the matter forward. The matter was stopped at a certain point, given that those who supported the amendment of the Constitution did not vote in favour of the establishment of the province law being suitable for further consideration. If this had been adopted by a two-thirds majority, surely by the second reading, a number of compromises could have been made for the benefit of all, not only us here in the National Assembly, but those living in the provinces could have accepted. We are in the New Slovenia Group of Members of this opinion. And now it would be hard for people to ask whether they are for 6, 8 or 13 provinces, because I don't think we can get an answer here either, on the basis of which we could move the project forward. If we ask people that question, at least in the final stage these answers will not give us an opportunity or we will not get an answer as to whether people are for 6, 8 or 13 provinces. And given that 12 so-called statistical regions have been defined on the basis of the law on coherent regional development adopted by the former Government, this issue is somehow also being addressed. And I would end by talking about the referendum of 12 plus one province, not the 14 you've been explaining many times.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to look for consensus at some of the values of today's assessments and judgements about those who at any rate think about the purpose of this referendum, that we do not know what we are saying, that we do not have contact with people, that we fear the success of the referendum, that we are talking nonsense about why we are getting paid if we do not oppose the referendum, and so on. I understand the coalition MPs that the "big brother" in the glass palace ordered that before the elections this legislation must be under the roof. He's in a hurry, that's not possible, and the rescue plant for that is a referendum. However, the referendum is one of the highest standards of democracy, so I think that the referendum must be prepared at least substantively so that people can clearly understand why they are voting for or against a referendum issue. And in that case, that's not the case. That is why so many words by our opposition are in the process of drafting this legislation. And your argument, which today has been repeatedly heard about what the landscapes will bring us, is basically to be rejected. Everything you've said, you can do now both from the state level and from the local level. 210 congregations are very large and we have a country. In my opinion, and here I am joining my colleague Drobnič, the contribution only to the salaries of all officials in the province's legislation I do not believe that he will bring a positive result, as you have convinced us. And these are the reasons why I do not support such legislation. And because I do not support this legislation, I cannot support the invitation to a referendum either.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u98	I believe that many in the opposition find it extremely difficult. You had the Ministry of Local Self-Government set up twice. You had two ministers in previous coalitions, and neither of them were able to prepare absolutely nothing in the area of establishing the provinces. In your previous term, you had a district minister covering this area, and nothing. This time, this coalition has prepared for the first time all the necessary legislation for the establishment of landscapes, provided for all the powers necessary for the provinces to function, anticipate funds, transfer of personnel and so on, in full. That's not what it was until now. For the second time, we also had a serious map of the provinces ahead of us, how Slovenia should be well divided into provincial units. We set up a marriage, but obviously it was too much for you. Now you're talking about allocating funds to statistical units. Who's gonna share that? Director of the Bureau of Statistics. Isn't that typical of a central planning decision? You're talking about extra costs. The administrative system, the administrative units that are within these provincial units join the landscape model and get a new manager, a new body that will manage them and subordinate them to the landscape work. What's the alternative you offered? Nothing. She's not here. And I can't help but say again that I'm very disappointed in the duality that you're leading. You yourself proposed a consultative referendum in January. You suggested it. You yourself proposed 14 provinces at a press conference and now you've withdrawn your support. You speak for yourself of decentralisation and when [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And so on. In short, I don't understand that you are capable of such conversions. I'll support the referendum myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you, Vice President. It's not hard for me to decide against such a referendum. I am also not disappointed with the views of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party because I expected such views. I would like to remind you that in the previous term of office in our government, in which we participated, we have failed to change the constitution because your party has in particular prevented the appropriate majority. This time, however, we have made it possible for the current government to come up with this change and to come up with such a proposal. Look, we have to make it clear to the public once again that it's not one referendum, it's thirteen referendums. If we just look at the question that concerns my space, my area, I find that we could have three variants, and here I will be attached to believe also my colleagues from the coalition, from Postojna, from Bovec and elsewhere, so that we can ask as asked here, we could ask in Koper, Isola and Piran; whether they would be for the province to be established in such an area, and we could also ask about the single coastal region. In all these cases, they had a firm outcome. I'll bet you that! So we must make it clear to the public that there are thirteen referendums and not a single referendum. I would, therefore, have come to say my own, to my colleague Jerovsk once again, that he should not forget that he is our parliamentary foreign minister, and he gets carried away sometimes when he opens up big topics about the provinces, the tycoons and so on. Jerovšek, I ask that as our foreign minister, of course, you also have such debates, which are more decent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Member Matjaž Han has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues. I personally object to a referendum on landscapes for one simple reason, and that is because there is no time before the elections to make people with such matters as the referendum questions about the provinces, I will say, 'to tire out.' I must say that there is nothing between us that would be against the equitable development of Slovenia in the economic and I do not know why, in this Chamber. But I don't think the provinces will solve all the problems of Slovenia and the Slovenians that have accumulated over the last three and a half years. And when you talk about the referendum that we were Social Democrats in January for the referendum. Yeah, we were for the referendum. And if that were the case, your coalition majority would now be closer to the goal and perhaps today we could really discuss the fundamental issues of how to bring provincial legislation to life. If the government truly has that kind of money and wants to divide it 200 percent among people, it can simply do so by dividing it into existing congregations. Believe me, some mayors among you who are very good will know how to make money and people will really have some of it. It is true, however, that some of your mayors, who run the most important departments, speak for local self-government, violate legislation and probably the SDS party has nothing to boast about. Once again, I will be against the referendum and against such a "turned" issue as this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u104	Your Honor! I will, of course, support the referendum. For me, the basic and key argument is why regionalisation. Since I've been in politics, even local, there has been one key issue at the forefront, and that is decentralisation. What do you think if Slovenians and Slovenians asked if they were for decentralisation, what most would say? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Exactly as respectable colleagues. [[...]] Most would say yes. What do you think if Slovenians and Slovenians asked if they were for coherent regional development? That's right. Most Slovenes would say yes. And what do you think if the citizens of Šentilj asked whether they wanted to have the same payment for the work they received in Ljubljana. What do you think the Shantilians would say? "Yes." That's right. But this is where the key problem is why I'm talking about decentralisation. In the Ljubljana region or in the Ljubljana statistical region, they have practically some work done or for most of the works performed, workers and all employees have at least 30% higher wages than they have in the Šentilj municipality. If we turn this into euro, it is said that you earn 1,000 euros in a certain position in Ljubljana and 700 in the Šentilj municipality. Why? Is that fair? These are key arguments why we should approach new solutions. I am sure that this legislation we are talking about today will change this trend. These are the arguments why I will support this referendum. One more sentence. Why Ljubljana’s Bureaucrats So Fear [[...]] [[Not included.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Comrade Geza Juban procedurally. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have not received a concrete proposal, supported by a concrete proposal from our parent's working body. I have been warned that we have before us a document that is difficult to explain to people even if the position of the National Assembly is adopted to hold a referendum. And in the explanation, we can read which issues to be decided in the referendum area are determined by deciding on the area of the proposed province. It's all right. Where there is a common position on the name of the province, there is no name. Maybe it's okay. The referendum results shall be determined for the entire referendum area or for each municipality. This is where the trouble comes in. This enables the determination of the will of the population of individual municipalities in the final design of the areas of the provinces. My procedural is moving on. It's muddy, of course. We have three options. The first option is the area, so we understand each other, we won't have any problems here. The first option is Pomurska [[Prekmurska-Prleška krajina]] . Here's the problem. You all know that the Pretzels want a legitimate province or their own or that it's in the name of Pleška. But if voted, there is already a problem: either Pomurska or Prekmursko-Pleška. The second option is only Pomurska. And the third option is Prekmursko-Pleška krajina. But it is not decided on individual options, it is decided on the whole issue of "yes" or "against". And when this is voted, tell me how the National Assembly will continue to decide the currently most controversial issues, whether Pmurje or Prekmurje Prleki, because besides problems within the province's legislation, people know very little, or nothing, is currently essential, what we will call ourselves. We will not get anything out of this proposal completely. It's a total mess. Fighting not to say hatred. From the referendum, we want to win a total conflict, strife and hatred. Since I had a procedural proposal or a question, 45 minutes will be a break, it would be good if you could think about this and give us an answer to what we are deciding. I don't think it makes any sense for me not to say stupid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision, I answer you Comrade Juban, reads: The proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum will be prepared by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Which means you're going to meet your question on your mother's working body. At this point, I know you know very well, we're in the voice-explanatory stage. And I can't help you from this place, even if I want to. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Anyone besides Bebler's colleague? No one else. Member Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. However, it should be undeniable to note that the President of the National Assembly has misused the rules of procedure and has today put to the vote decisions on the referendum without at the same time having before them the content of the decision on this referendum. We're actually supposed to buy a cat in a frog today. And actually this cat isn't just such a big cat and such an unknown cat. It's about the fact that this government wants to come up with some kind of political event where it would get exactly the answers it wants. But not to get answers that would actually contribute to what and how many landscapes we would have. And all the talk about the Government's efforts and the coalition for decentralisation and even development is, of course, empty talk. One thing that is clear right now is that there will be more red tape. Talking about the fact that the previous governments even had ministers and ministries of local self-government and failed to reach the provinces is also a completely fictitious rumor. We know well that this mandate has been subject to such a specific formulation in the constitution, which has prevented them from reaching the provinces from coming down from the top, as they are called. And precisely the opposition, not only has it agreed to change the constitution, but in the opposition parliamentary groups we have taken the initiative to change the constitution and only then have we come to this situation where we are. It is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly. And at least what it is, we should now find that we can't make any decisions about it at all. There are no business conditions for this. The Committee on Local Self-Government, which would adopt the text of the decree, should be called upon as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded our presentations on behalf of both the Group of Members and on our own behalf. On the basis of a procedural proposal and, if I am not mistaken, the DeSUS Group and the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, I will order a 45-minute break for the consultations. I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 5:45. We'll pick her up at 5:35. Until then, say good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u110	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. I'm asking, do the motioners want to explain the situation? Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The longer consultation of the Group did not help to unify their positions. Perhaps also because we were unable to contact the party's president in order to consult him about this. Thus, the possibility remains for everyone to vote in his/her conscience. This is the result, and this is what I'm telling the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I myself thank my colleagues from DeSUS, although they cannot get a president, for the opportunity we have used in the parliamentary club to talk to colleagues and other members of the opposition. And I inform the National Assembly that the LDS Members will not participate in the decision on this point for a simple reason, because we feel that there are many very controversial moments that have led the National Assembly into the situation of adopting this decision. Of course, this is also an opportunity for all those who feel that this legislation or this referendum is inappropriate to join us in this. Only by not taking part in the vote can they ensure that Slovenia does not receive this disputed referendum. This is true of all who have expressed their concerns in the National Assembly or in the workplace. She won't apologize to the public later. Whoever sits in this Chamber will cause Slovenia to have this referendum. Clearly, there is no other way out of this pre-election disaster that has been cooked by the Government than by trying to prevent this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Gantar also called for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I announce the obstruction of the Zares Group in voting on this item on the agenda. We estimate that it is illegal to vote on this referendum, that the procedures allowing for voting on this have been violated, abused and overstepped the customs of the National Assembly. And we estimate that such a referendum, as proposed, is actually sand in the eyes of a real choice, which should first be faced by politics and perhaps only by citizens and citizens. We also estimate that the mere opposition to this is not enough to actually decide a referendum on such landscapes for those who today will press the quorum or sit in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Also in the Lipa Group in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we announce obstruction to this item of the agenda. The first reason is the different criteria for the call for an individual referendum in that country. Of course, there is a fundamental reason, which is already a practice for four years, the name of the proposer of an individual proposal. When it comes to a government referendum, a large part of the material may be missing, and this goes through the College, for example, when it comes to another referendum, which would reduce or reduce costs, we cannot decide anything without a lack of material. Another issue is certainly the explanation for the voice, some sort of convincing skeptics, why they should support such a referendum. I must say that some statements on decentralisation were literally taken from the textbook for learning about the environment for the 5th grade primary school under the heading "Learn Your Congregation". But, gentlemen of the coalition, that's 5th grade. That's the kind of textbook that's got upgrades. But you didn't find any quote there. The landscape will not, as someone has tried to be a populism, raise wages in the underdeveloped regions. As a matter of fact, these salaries are going to go down. But they can raise prices. If the Government really wanted coherent regional development, it already had all the basis in existing legislation. There will be no more roads if there are provinces. No factory will hire any more workers if there are provinces. Paloma in Sweet Top will not be a better company if there are provinces. So don't fool around, you better think about - less landscapes, more money. Consider what you’re asking people and what responsibility you’re not able to do, and you don’t have the knowledge yourself, so that one day when you see that you’ve proposed something bad, you can say it to them. It's not right, it's not fair, but we're used to this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not participate in the decision-making process. Not even the slightest willingness to follow the proposals and create a more reasonable referendum question so far. The decision is taken without knowing what will continue to happen in the working body and in the assembly, making empty promises, while it is well known that even if decisions are taken at the end of June at the referendum, we will have a good time to argue about what the decision means, according to participation, according to the required majority in each province and given the overall result. And even if we come to a clear common agreement, what content means, it will no longer be possible to realize it. You probably do not expect to adopt referendum legislation, as now you are forcing the adoption of a referendum decision following urgent proceedings at meetings, which we will very much refer to rather than a project followed by most Members and Members in the belief that it is not only territorially correct, but also by jurisdiction and by the provision of financial resources. There is nothing about this today, so we do not want to take part in the decision on this referendum, which will not have any effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you. Any other procedural proposals? [[No, no, ……]] I note that LDS, Zares, Lipa, SD and SNS announced obstruction at agenda item 19. We are therefore moving to a vote on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the regions of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 44, for 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum will be prepared by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Such a draft resolution will be discussed by the assembly at its next meeting tomorrow, on Tuesday, 20 May 2008, after the final vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on external matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members with first-signed Mr Joseph Školč requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Dimitri Rupel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u121	Your Honor! Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Affairs, as it has found that the law needs to be updated and some institutions regulated. It is also necessary to bring the law on external matters into line with the legislation in force and to adapt it to the European legal order. Amendments and additions are proposed in the area of consular assistance, in the area of conclusion of international treaties and in the field of human resources and organisation. Something about consular aid first. We will now adapt the law on external matters to the European legal order in the field of consular assistance. Slovenia thus provides consular assistance to every citizen of the European Union in a third country, it is said, to non-members of the European Union, such as in the event of death, in the event of a serious accident and serious illness, in the event of deprivation of liberty and so on. The second introduction of European legislation or European Union legislation refers to the issue of a so-called European travel document for return. Slovenia will thus be able to issue this document to citizens and citizens of all the European Union. In addition, the law will introduce the possibility that Slovenian diplomatic representations may, in exceptional cases, lay down funds for Slovenian citizens and citizens when a citizen or a citizen urgently needs them. The funds are due back. The law also explains what emergency cases are. Let's say a person doesn't have anyone who might be able to transfer money to a foreign location on an escape route. Next, changes when it comes to concluding international contracts. The government is proposing changes because shortcomings have mainly been demonstrated through practice. The questions we want to settle are as follows. Firstly, objections to reservations to international treaties are said to be against the reservations made by individual countries to international treaties. Secondly, the regulation of the scope of so-called administrative contracts and not of contractual international acts and the arrangements for the conclusion of international treaties within the framework of membership in the European Union. The amendment of the law provides that the procedure applicable to the conclusion of contracts shall also apply to the investment and withdrawal of reservations. This is the first time that the method of acceptance and withdrawal of the reservation is formally laid down. The law gives additional powers to the National Assembly when it comes to altering or withdrawing the reservation. With a new proposal, the government has no longer had that power. The proposed amendment makes the law clearer than it has so far distinguished between contracts which can be ratified by the Government or other contracts which are of a sectoral nature and which do not entail any legal or financial obligations and non-contractual acts. Article 20 of the proposal provides an explanatory provision that will make sense of the law on external matters and the law on the cooperation of the National Assembly with the Government in matters of the European Union. The third amendment, the third type of amendment, concerns the human rights and organisational area, proposing the following amendments and amendments to the law on external matters. Firstly, it is the establishment of a political director. This is a diplomat responsible at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the common foreign and security policy of the European Union, the so-called CFP, and for the European security and defence policy, the so-called ESDP. All European Union diplomacys know this city. Slovenia has so far had a political director, but this diplomat or this place in the law was not envisaged, and we had to add it from our own practice or our own decision. To align the conditions for the appointment of contractual heads of representation with the conditions applicable to professional diplomats, therefore, the contractual ambassadors will have to fully meet the conditions for the employment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the equalisation of conditions for a diplomatic title. Then, in order to regulate the status of civil servants from other bodies and to regulate the advancement of diplomats in the external service. Given that my time has run out, I will, if there are other things that need to be explained in the course of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aurelio Juri will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u123	All of you have a nice day! Dear Mr. Minister, co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Let me put it this way: we will not oppose the proposed new Social Democrats, even though we are not even a little excited about it. However, since, in the first reading, we hope that before the second reading of our comments and the comments of all the affected and other interested, in particular the professional public, the applicant will take into account, we also hope that the conditions for us to support the final law will be created. And what do we see in such a text for the time being? This is a completely delayed opportunity to introduce, on the basis of a preliminary discussion by all interested parties, such changes and additions to the existing law on external matters that would eliminate the reasons for the growing dissatisfaction of employees in the Ministry, to prevent the continued will of its leadership and also to regulate in the long term the situation that is becoming, as far as we know, increasingly irregular and unsustainable from the house itself. The reflection and top of the icy mountain of irregularity in the ministry is the recent so-called "depeša" affair, or the illegal management procedures of the ministry, which led to the latter having to apologize and admit that they were not the most appropriate. We know that the Slovenian diplomats' union has worked hard to gain insight into the proposed text of the law and that when it has prepared its comments and proposals for improvements, which would solve or resolve the human resources problem more in the longer term at the Ministry of Human Rights, which we consider to be extremely thorough and worth at least serious consideration by the applicant, most of them have been rejected. The amendments and additions envisaged by the amendment do not eliminate at all the many loose formulations in the applicable Law on Foreign Affairs, which, of course, allow for the lack of transparency of procedures, eliminate irregularities with regard to the status of so-called contractual diplomats and do not address a number of situations in which the leadership of the ICZ, and in particular the Minister, can act entirely discreetly. Nor does the novel address the fundamental uncertainty about who and what the diplomat should be. It is absurd that Article 27 and Article 34 of the Foreign Affairs Act states that the contractual leaders of our diplomatic and consular offices abroad are not diplomats at all. According to our information, the law was created by the intention of the competent professional service at the Ministry to introduce some changes in the area of international contracts, and a few proposals for changes in consular assistance were added later, as well as proposals for some changes in the field of human resources. In full and professional terms, however, the text before us, particularly with regard to the human resources topic, which is most important, is unfortunately to be assessed and even found to be primarily a reflection of the nervous leadership of the ministry, in the face of the many criticisms that were received in the public because of the "depešća" affair. At the same time, it is also a reflection of the Ministry’s leadership’s attempt to legitimize certain decisions regarding the practice of progress in the ministry in recent years, which unfortunately does not go away as it should, especially on expertise and experience, but to a large extent on blind obedience to leadership and proper political direction. In this way, the Ministry's leadership has devised Article 11 of this Law, or Appendix 45a, of the Foreign Affairs Act, which seeks to make virtually all the Ministry's documents public. This is an obvious consequence of the "depeš" affair, while limiting the right of access to information of a public nature. This article is, of course, unacceptable and totally unnecessary for us, as the law on classified data nevertheless sets out which data have different levels of confidentiality. If I come back in the end to the human resources effects. That the novel is an attempt to legitimize the human resources policy in return, that is proof of the recruitment of "ad personnel" and that the attempt to introduce new practices will continue to ensure blind obedience to the top management of the Ministry, proves Article 1 in which, according to the new Secretary-General of the Ministry, he would no longer be a person in the title of Ambassador. In the majority of the members of the European Union, the Secretary-General is the Ambassador-General, as this is a responsible function, which requires many years of experience, authority and autonomy and action in addition to knowledge. Adequately and responsibly, after what we have said, it would be in our opinion that the amendment would not be concluded at all today or that it would take time for a broader and more thorough discussion of it with all interested, peaceful, professional and responsible persons, otherwise if the applicant does not do so, we will propose appropriate improvements and only then, depending on how he responds to our amendments, will we finally decide on the fate of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Comrade Jožef Školč will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister with co-workers, respectable colleagues, colleagues! The general debate on this law allows me to say perhaps more about this area governed by this law. This would be possible if the Ministry were interested in a thorough review of the rules governing the functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the diplomatic network, the relations with Parliament and also the relations Slovenia has entered into with its membership in the European Union. But when we look at the proposal for amendments, it turns out that there was no real ambition, that the necessary changes would be thoroughly combed and that, as said by colleague Juri, we are actually solving some partial problems while the minister is also setting up legislative solutions that would allow him even more simply to express himself, to have free access to the diplomatic network and the ministry, which is quite controversial. The reasons for the changes are partly acceptable, but they are not fully understandable, because the years referred to by the Ministry, the situations in which Slovenia has already been, are already far behind us and Slovenia has been carrying out a series of these things, the rules have been passed into the internal legal order and there have been no specific problems. So when we go to this chapter that talks about human resources and organizational change, we actually see what they are -- and I'm going to say just the way things are -- the wishes of the minister and his close associates. This is about wishes, as I said, after the free availability of this network, because if you wanted to fully regulate the position of these non-professional diplomats, then a lot of things would have been written down differently. Thus, a series of questions remain open and I have no impression that these changes will indeed make career diplomats equal to those appointed by the policy, if necessary. This is one of the key problems. The second thing he does in this area is to introduce titles that are at odds with what his colleague in Government, Minister Virant, is doing. Here he introduces the function of political director, if this is necessary for communication with other ministries. But you won't get a political director in the public service system. And it will still be considered that - in fact, this law will force some solution that will be thrown out of all other ministries. I can hardly imagine what they think about this in the Government's legislative service, if they have any other opinion on the things the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing. And it is hard to imagine what all those who try to balance or make comparable positions of officials feel about it. We can agree that diplomats are special types of officials, with some additional requirements, but this does not mean that they cannot be classified, like all others, into appropriate positions. Of course, the position of the Secretary-General of the Ministry has changed in connection with the appointment of this political director. That's new, too. When the secretary-generals of the ministries meet, it will be in a different position than the others. What this means is not clear, but certainly this fascination with other examples means only that the Minister is not at home in matters of state regulation with us and that is the problem. The Minister is forcing solutions that undermine the system of state officials and that is certainly why this solution is disputed. That the Minister doesn't know the rules that everyone has to follow, there are a lot of cases. I'm not gonna list them here. Then what does he do when caught breaking the rules or not knowing them accurately enough? It proposes amendments to the regulations, proposes different other solutions, and this time also proposes amending the law, for example in handling confidential data. The proposal, which is here in law and which relates to the obligation to protect documents, actually improves the situation in this area rather than improves it. And why does that happen? This is because the ministry or part of people has made a mistake in connection with the so-called "Washington dispatch", but now it is trying to arrange differently how access to and what those who handle these data should do with them. Instead of being the same as everywhere else and diplomats know this exactly - they all went through these procedures, how confidential data is handled - the solution proposed by the diplomats is that in fact it is left to someone else, when and how we can get these data. It's extremely unusual! But this indicates that this household, which in the field of regulating the situation in the house, from the field of car use and broom has also brought about the application of the law. That's the problem, colleagues and colleagues. Thus, in our House of Members, there is no reason to support such unconceived solutions in order to make it clear to others who have comments on the work, especially on the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because when different situations are analysed, it usually turns out that the awkwardness that is taking place in this area or the powerlessness in certain situations is not due to poorly thought-out legislation, but is due to the use of these rules. And from this point of view, we believe that if we need to talk about changes in this area, that the biggest change - on what I will say, is also the goal of the great advocate of the original Demos' policy - that it would be a time to get another foreign minister. But this cannot be obtained by this law, because if Minister Rupel could also write this, I would also guarantee myself in this law, I will say, a life-long appointment as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u127	Very well greeted representatives of the government, or minister with co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the adoption of legislation or amendments and the completion of the law on external matters. Key reasons are the elimination of certain shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the functioning of the external ministry, in particular as regards staff, employees. Therefore, the introduction of the status of workers working in external representations is not career diplomats to regulate their respective status and compliance with the rules resulting from the change in the system of public servants. At the same time, there are certain provisions relating to European Union law. Key things are: extending social security rights for spouses and partners of diplomats living abroad in order to align themselves with other workers in similar positions and the principle of equal treatment - equalising EU citizens with Slovenian citizens and vice versa with regard to consular assistance. Amendments to the law also touch on the introduction of assistance to citizens of EU Member States abroad, such as the provision of exceptional financial assistance to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are in distress abroad. These are the key things and the reasons for this amendment to the law. The New Slovenia Group supports these solutions, which are presented in the proposal for amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u129	Dear Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers and co-workers. Dear Members and Members. The Law on Foreign Affairs has already undergone some changes to comply with the provisions of the Law on Public Servants. The drafter explains that, since its entry into force in practice, the need for further changes has been demonstrated, the removal of shortcomings and uncertainties, and the re-compliance with the rules in the field of the public service system. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the bill because the amendments are intended to comply with other laws, with European legislation, and some are merely editorial in nature. The proposed law is therefore intended to remedy the shortcomings in the current law, which mainly concerns the work and organisation of the Ministry, the assistance to citizens abroad and the conclusion of international contracts. In practice, changes in the law will be shown in the resolution of the scope of social security rights for spouses and extra-marital partners of diplomats living abroad. The status, status and method of determining the remuneration of other persons performing work in the Representations of the Republic of Slovenia abroad will be defined. The amendments are also proposed in the field of the conditions for the appointment of the Secretary-General. We agree that the principle of equal treatment must be ensured, so that the conditions are in line with other ministries. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support a solution that equates EU citizens with Slovenian citizens in the right to consular assistance and vice versa. It is true that EU citizens from any Member State in a third country are entitled to consular assistance at each diplomatic office or consulate of a Member State and not only at the representation of their country. It is also important for us to introduce exceptional financial assistance to Slovenian citizens who are in distress abroad and who turn to the diplomatic office or consulate for help. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we feel that amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs are necessary and meaningful, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Ambassador Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President, Mr Minister! We will not really support this law in the Group of Members, because we have a number of comments on the law itself. Above all, we believe that it is wrong to change in the majority of the articles on progress, in short, on appointment to titles, on appointment to diplomatic posts and so on. Above all, we consider it inappropriate to amend the law on external matters in a work that speaks mainly of recruitment a few months before the elections. This seems totally inappropriate to us, but it is in line with the current human resources practice of the ruling coalition. It should also be noted that certain individual legal provisions exist, through which there is a slight taste in trying to ensure progress to certain posts of staff, also to those who do not meet formal legal conditions. The fact is that, in addition to the Secretary-General of the Ministry, there is also a political director, as the Foreign Minister has already said. It is true, however, that this political director is not subject to conditions under the title of Ambassador, but can already be occupied by someone who fulfils the conditions for an authorised minister, which means that standards in this area are being lowered, and it should be pointed out that the current v.d. The Secretary-General of the Ministry does not fulfil all the conditions under the law so far, for example, that he may perform this function. In accordance with the new law, however, this will be possible in some way. In the Group of Members, we are also skeptical of Article 37a, which allows employees to be sent abroad with a lower title than what they have obtained when special needs are required or when it comes to temporary deployment. In this case, we estimate that it is a total negative staff selection. Indeed, the Government will be able to justify this at any time by means of sub-legal acts and it will be that people who are professional are politically incompatible, will not advance to certain places and will not be sent abroad, but will be sent to many who will have a lower title than what they have obtained. This is certainly not good when the need to professionalise Slovenian foreign policy is growing. This, of course, allows for a whole series of foreign policy errors that are certainly not good. In the Emissary Group, we are really concerned about these kinds of moves. We believe that with the law on external matters, if we are already touching personnel matters, we should raise standards rather than lower them, as proposed by this law. It should also be pointed out that Article 45a of the Law also partially interferes with the law on classified information. Otherwise, we understand in the Parliamentary Group that they want to prevent the Ministry from repeating matters such as those related to the so-called "Washinghton dispatch", but, of course, we also need to be aware that all data from classical documents relating to foreign policy are not secret and that the public has the right to be informed. If I reverse the logic of this law: as these provisions are now being laid down, we are concerned that information that is important in terms of public information will also be hidden from the public and will in no way compromise the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the foreign policy field. In short, in a way, the law, such as it is, allows certain things to be made known to the public, but it is only right that the public is informed of them, that these matters are to a greater extent hidden from the public's eyes. It also raises the question whether the legislator has carefully considered the compatibility of this law with the law on classified information and what is the constitutional right of the public to information in this case. Similarly, when we are talking about human resources policy, the question of what is the constitutional right of employees, how it is protected, because in fact certain articles, as I said, raise reasonable doubts that some are trying to reduce standards in this area to allow certain staff to gain places in diplomacy that otherwise do not meet the conditions. Similarly, the appointment of ambassadors, where certain deadlines are also being reduced, and it is more than obvious that the mandate of this government is to expire, but there are clearly many politically compatible personnel seen in diplomacy. And as I said, once again, let me repeat my final thought on behalf of the Zares Group. We find it unseemly in fact that the law on external matters is being amended mainly in the work that speaks mainly of staffing, a few months before the elections. This is rude, once again, but it is in line with the current practice of the ruling coalition. Of course, we do not support this in the Group of Members, so we will not support this law either, because we believe that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by colleague Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team! Nothing more than a man who's been dealing with European affairs for eight years, I said that the basic rule in English is "if you want to join the club, you have to respect the rules" or if we want to be members of the club, we have to respect the rules. This is what we, who have been Eurosceptics, are now taking into account and stressing, because if we are already there, then that is the case. And part of what Europe has put in place in relations between the Member States of the European Union in the field of foreign policy is also an integral part of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on external matters. And in a certain part we are, of course, obliged to say, it is right that this law is also changing in these elements. After all, we must respect what we ourselves wanted. Secondly, sometimes it's hard to talk about whether we're changing something and we want to improve it because of the names we see there, or whether it's the other way around. We want to improve something so that no matter who sits anywhere, who does what, it will be better. In the Slovenian National Party, we have decided to follow this path, although we can say that we are indeed assessing that recent work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is bad - bad, chaotic - this is our assessment, but even though this law should and will have to help to organise the work to be the foreign policy of a large country, even though the number of inhabitants and miles of small Slovenia will be equivalent to that of all other countries. Indeed, there are many issues, as my previous interlocutor has been talking about, in the field of human resources policy, which is an integral part of the amendments to the bill, which is one of the segments of the principle of law in the field of organisation and functioning of the ministry and human resources policy. However, since we are in the first reading, it is of course the power to amend concerns or to agree and talk. But it is true that this floor is usually slippery in the area of human resources. But we, as Members of all Slovenians and Slovenians, must recognise that the law is in that part that extends the social security rights of all spouses and extra-marital partners of diplomats working abroad, and it is also. To put it domestically, imagine that you are a wife or a husband of a diplomat, a diplomat or a diplomat, and it is not a matter of leaving the job and going with the child to do this work abroad, and with this law this country will take care of this man or that woman accompanying her husband a diplomat. The second great gain of this law is to finally get rid of the shame we saw years ago by Slovenians when, God forbid, there was a natural disaster, whether there was a war somewhere, or anything that happened abroad when the Slovenian was there alone, powerless, without money, without paper, without everything. What did we do? We collected friends, relatives, money, and we didn't know how to get him there. This law resolves that the State of Slovenia will assist Slovenia through its representations or other Member States of the European Union, including in the Third Council countries Slovenia and Slovenia, which will be in difficulty. And that's right. And it's a good thing he's in this marriage. It is also right that this law, in the third part of international treaties, at least in writing in this law, refers to what we have always stressed and what we consider to be a good way, but there is not enough cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is highlighted in the record of this law, and this, believe me, is of great importance. Any assistance that this law will provide both to citizens and to citizens of other European Union Member States and vice versa is very welcome through this law, which can be seen in the solutions to the draft law in Articles 24a and 24b. Once again, it is a matter of protecting the citizens of the European Union, where Slovenians will no longer, even on the basis of law, anything other than in some areas, let's say, during a transitional period of labour - I hope that we will resolve this too soon; we will get the same help as all, as will Denmark, or Austria, or Germany, or French, or Italian. It is right that in Article 24b, we are talking about aid, and even in Article 24c, we are talking about aid, for a loan, for a loan, for money, which will be returned to those who will be able to get out of trouble. It is also fair that the provisions of this law clearly state that it will have financial implications on the budget; namely, the total financial implications will amount to 25,000 and several euros at the annual level. It is fair, and even if we compare it with the entire amount of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, such money is small money against what we can do with this law, how we can help the Slovenes and Slovenians who are in one way or another sent to abroad or to work or find themselves there in another way and thus help them. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not oppose this law at first reading, and we support this law. And with the words that we have spoken, where we have given this support mainly because of the substantive order of citizens and citizens of this country, which is a great deal of help around the world, this is the goal, but I am sure that our colleagues from the Government will be and that we will all find appropriate solutions together in this field of human resources, where we have been warned, through this law, today, in the first reading, by how we have been, and it seems to me that we will be through second reading and through amendments, because I believe that between you, colleagues and colleagues, there are many experienced members of the Foreign Policy Committee or people who know about diplomacy, and they will know how and how to deal with the problems that have been imposed, and they will also set up a human policy in the field of desire or demand to have a political director, where possible, I am cariculating, because I am writing that it is established in European countries. It is the suspension of the special condition of the term Ambassador for appointment to the post of Secretary-General. One needs to get a little deeper into knowing whether it is good or bad or making it easier to work and making it possible to work better in the foreign political field or, in fact, to hide some sort of entourage that is not supposed to be an example to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian National Party supports the law in anticipation of a sober and quality second treatment and, of course, the joint consensual adoption of this law, which will eventually be in two thirds - at least that's how we understand - of this content, in particular with the help of Slovenes and Slovenes around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u134	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by fellow Member Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I have to say, I'm getting a little distracted by how many angles people or Members and Members can look at a certain law. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs, as proposed today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has arrived - I think that if I am very precise - three, four meetings before the end of this mandate. The bill, as before us, given that it is an external policy that is to be common to all citizens and citizens, I stress to all citizens and citizens, not to the Minister, not to the Government, not to the Prime Minister, to us here at first reading, in quotations, in general reading "accompanies" less than the representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members. I think it shows the importance of this law, especially by the government coalition, of how much it wants to accept it. Maybe even the government coalition took a closer look at this law. When we reviewed this law in the Lipa Group, we really thought it was about adapting to some EU standards at first stage or at first. Like my predecessor said, you just have to respect certain club rules if you've already kicked into it. But my first question is already raised in the runaway review: What about the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in this case? Where does this show up in marriage? The practice of this government has been such that all the laws in this country have been corrected in the last four years, if not adopted - because it is the European Union, it has been ordered because we need to coordinate. But what did you mess up? Everything else, the rest of the ballast that we have received in the four years or in the four years that you have accepted, has been explained: this is what the European Union requires of us. And it's the same with this marriage if we go to look a little bit more closely. I agree with some of my predecessors who said that financial assistance would be provided to citizens abroad in the event of natural disasters. But I don't agree with that, because when I look at this article a little bit more, it says "extremely." What does that mean? Is this really true for all citizens and citizens? Is that an exception? If it means, if we're talking about 'exceptional', it means that we're going to grant this financial assistance to someone with the exception. I also wonder what happens where we don't have a diplomatic-consular representation. From some experiences, Minister, I can tell you that, for example, at the diplomatic and consular office in Germany, they did not know last year that Slovenia is a member of the European Union, despite its presidency this year. What about there because they didn't have "up data"? If you want the exact country where it was, but these are the problems, Mr. Secretary, and any such "exceptionally" and all such problems cast doubt on such a provision of this law. [[....]] And do not speak so sovereignly that we adopt the law to help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who will find themselves in trouble in a third country! And the next question that I am asked, dear Minister, is: Where do we not have a diplomatic-consular representation - how will the money transfer take place? We know that in some countries we will need a little more money if we are to return to Slovenia. Here we have to pay the money back, but it will give it to me, I don't know, the embassy of Germany, for example. How will this money transfer take place, to whom do I repay? You? If I come to the second part, this is your recruitment, when I look at it a little bit better, Mr. Minister, and if I think about how the Government has embarked on the privatisation of the economy in our country, we in the Lipa Group have been afraid that you want to be the master of foreign affairs - because otherwise, since you have been a minister for quite some time - to privatize the area of diplomacy! If I look at it from an economic point of view! And to the area of detention! Even if we know that the mandate is coming to an end and some diplomatic-consular representations around the world that we have in the Republic of Slovenia need to be filled in - to reduce education or staffing. You can tell me that you have been forced, given that some of the data points to the fact that in some countries our diplomats simply do not want to go and actually repeat themselves three to four times. Perhaps because of this, but I think it is a fundamental fact that we must say in doing so, especially the political staffing which we fear in the Lipa Group. I am terrified that we will have diplomatic representatives from the Republic of Slovenia around the world who will have all the membership cards of the largest ruling party. Maybe justified, maybe not. Comrade Jerovšek, you are one of those candidates with a card, if you're smiling. But let's leave it. Maybe, maybe not. And all these doubts that appear to us in the Lipa Group are so great that we simply cannot confirm this law, we cannot give it a green light for further consideration. It seems to me that before this law is passed, it would be necessary, in view of the way our foreign policy is taking place, to have a general debate on the direction our foreign policy is going - either with our neighbours or around the world. To have a general discussion - both with coalition colleagues and with opposition colleagues; then, where some secret information is going from our foreign ministry - but these wishes in this House, in this coalition and also your order, Mr. Minister, have never been, in spite of the great wishes - especially when it comes to the questions that you are taking very seriously, at least after the sense of your presence - this was not the wish. Neither did your fellow Members or your party colleagues have this desire. And you always say how you feel about consensus, debate, guidance! I just don't believe anything will change until the second reading, but not because of your colleagues, especially because of you. Simply, in your words, the honourable Minister, we can count on it, so we will not give green light to this law in the First reading of the Lipa Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. Let me first say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we believe that this is primarily a matter of very practical, so to speak, technical changes to the law. Since the last amendment of the Law on Foreign Affairs in November 2003, the need for certain amendments to the law has been demonstrated in practice, following the removal of confusion and compliance with the rules on the system of public servants, as well as with regard to the protection of the interests of the State. This was also influenced by the development of political relations and the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. In the Group of Members, of course, we are aware that the Slovenian state and with it Slovenian democracy are still young and that the need for more appropriate solutions often appears. Even this year, we have witnessed problems and even abuses that have caused damage to the state and have occurred, partly even at the expense of insufficiently regulated rules. We're aware that everything can't be arranged. Especially when, as part of the political space, the rules of statefulness and the unwritten rule on constructive conduct in the field of foreign policy are not respected and, when attempting to abuse foreign policy, to achieve internal policy points. The main amendments to the law currently under consideration concern mainly the work and organisation of the Ministry, assistance to citizens abroad and the conclusion of international contracts. The proposed amendments to the law in the field of organisation and operation of the Ministry rightly extend the scope of social security rights for spouses and extra-marital partners of diplomats living abroad, as these have often been damaged. They shall also coordinate the conditions for the appointment of the Secretary-General with the conditions applicable in other ministries, thereby ensuring the principle of equal treatment. The need for comparable staffing arrangements as in other European countries also encouraged the establishment of a political director. The Political Director shall be responsible for the coordination and integration of work in the field of the European Union's common foreign and security policy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The definition of its competences in Article 7a corresponds to the needs of Slovenian foreign policy in the conditions of EU membership also after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. The principle of equal treatment is also a fundamental principle of a solution to consular aid. This introduces solutions that align Slovenian citizens with citizens of the European Union in the right to consular assistance and vice versa, citizens of the European Union from any Member State are entitled to such assistance in a third country at each diplomatic office or consulate of a Member State and not only at the representation of their country. We think it is right and it is a useful fact that we use as members of the European Union. We also feel very much in need of a solution to the urgent financial support of the Slovenian citizen in exceptional cases when he is in distress abroad. In the Group of Members, we have encountered examples of cases where there is still a lack of regulation of certain issues or that they have been inadequately regulated. Therefore, there is a logical and urgent innovation in the draft law which provides for the use of the International Treaty Reservation Institute. Similarly, there has been a lack of provisions on case-by-case contracts in the current regulation. These contracts shall provide for a simpler conclusion if they do not give rise to a new legal obligation. The current law has also not specifically regulated the so-called European Treaties, since in cases where a contract between Member States or mixed powers contracts is concerned, the provisions of the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government apply mutatis mutandis in matters of the European Union and the law on external matters. In line with practice in the European Union, diplomatic titles have also been introduced in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' internal service some time ago. The new solutions bring an end to the incomparability of titles, as the structure of diplomatic titles in the internal service has proved to be incompatible with the envisaged and in the systematisation act a certain structure of titles in the representations of the Republic of Slovenia. In the external service, the systemisation of jobs and diplomatic titles is comparable to that of other countries in the host country and must also meet the working needs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is also important that a diplomat does not lose his rights to the higher title on returning to the internal service. The draft law also deals with the issue of the protection of sensitive data arising from the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Experience in the past has shown that legislation is not the best in this area and that it needs to be complemented. The solutions proposed in the amendment define in more detail the way and the assessment of the protection of sensitive data in the field of external matters. The existing law on access to information of a public nature will continue to apply to the decision-making process on the transmission of information. A new Article 45a is proposed, which provides that documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as diplomatic notes, records of meetings or talks with foreign diplomatic representatives and representatives of international organisations and negotiating points, are intended to implement the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. It is right that the officials and officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are very clearly committed and obliged to protect sensitive documents and data. Therefore, the envisaged solutions for document protection are appropriate and necessary. In our Group of Members, we believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. However, if it proves necessary, it can also be complemented in some finesse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Sam Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will not object to the law at this stage. Some amendments to the law on external matters are necessary and necessary. Thus, we can agree with the changes in the area of consular assistance and in the area of the conclusion of international contracts. However, the most controversial solutions are in the field of human resources. In particular, inadequate solutions were highlighted in the Slovenian diplomats' union, which, as a representative union for this profession, made a number of proposals and comments which the applicant did not take into account and were not taken into account in this text. Thus, the diplomats' union notes that this path was also a missed opportunity to define more appropriately the profession created by Slovenia's independence completely new within the Slovenian state administration. The applicant does not take into account the fact that the profession of a diplomat is a self-employed and specific profession which needs to be legally defined in its specification, but does not in any way seek the indirect or direct similarity or analogy with other civil servants. In addition, the Slovenian diplomats' union notes that internationally established and recognised diplomatic titles must be the basic decision of the state diplomatic service. They should be comparable with the same titles in the diplomacy of other countries, not with official titles in the Republic of Slovenia. The consequences of misinterpretation and placement of diplomats into the diplomatic and consular missions of the Republic of Slovenia abroad should be regulated by law in such a way that diplomats gradually advance their entire career in diplomatic titles from attaché to the authorised minister or ambassador or to the general consul. Such careers should be completely normal from the traineeship to retirement. Of course, there are exceptions, but in so-called contractual diplomats they should be more restrictive and not so often decided on. Of course, we also have a number of good ambassadors and diplomats among the contractual diplomats. Now and to the end, something about the "depeche" affair and in connection with this law. For man has the sense that this law concerns the recruitment of ad personnel and the legitimacy of certain human resources decisions in the past. Here I am referring to the solution presented by Article 1 of the novel, which no longer requires the Secretary-General to be an ambassador. In the union of Slovenian diplomats, they point out that this solution is not acceptable because it is necessary to compare the Secretary-General with the secretaries-general of foreign ministries in other comparable countries and not with the official functions in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, according to the Slovenian diplomats' union, the secretary-general should be placed in the very top of the diplomatic hierarchical scale, which means that he should also be called Ambassador. In this case, it is clearly a kind of award in the "depeša" affair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u140	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Franc Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] I call to the floor the Member of the Victory of Jelinčič. [[He's not here.]] The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of you from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! Some of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are clearly justified, weighty and necessary. In particular those concerned with more adequate care for citizens of Slovenia and citizens of the Member States of the European Union when they are in third countries and need help, or when our citizens find themselves in a particularly difficult situation in another country and have to be adequately assisted by our representation. It is also appropriate, at least so I think, to regulate the institution and the status of the political director. It is totally unacceptable, however, that the Secretary-General is also required to be an ambassador. Here reference to other arrangements in the system of public servants is insufficient or unconvincing. If anyone, the Secretary-General of the Ministry must be very well aware of the functioning of diplomatic representations and consulates and must have adequate experience of his own. It is not possible to get rid of the impression that this proposed novel is to a large extent intended to care about how to legally cover improperly occupied positions or how to relax the conditions that non-professional diplomats who will be proposed by the Government to occupy embassies, if possible before the autumn parliamentary elections. Otherwise, it is possible to explain the intention to delete the present fourth paragraph of Article 27, which provides that a non-professional diplomat who has university education and knows two foreign languages may be appointed as Head of the Diplomatic Representation, of which one of the world’s languages can be appointed as Head of the Diplomatic Mission, and that this non-professional diplomat must also fulfil the conditions for appointment as career diplomats. Apparently, before the autumn elections, the government intends to secure some of its loyal people, who apparently do not meet the current legal conditions. In my opinion, there are quite imprudent changes or additions concerning the conclusion of international contracts. As regards the case-law contracts, it is generally said that they are expected to be subject to a simpler conclusion procedure if they are not subject to a new legal obligation. The conclusion of international agreements is in principle a matter of taking on new legal obligations. Will the individual departments themselves assess that it is not a matter of taking on new legal obligations? In particular, so that the contracts can be concluded in a simpler manner, and then we will wonder what binding contracts the individual departments have concluded. The new Article 45a is, of course, intended to strengthen the obligation to protect documents. Of course, such documents are adequately protected. However, it is a very vehement claim that, for example, any record of meetings or talks with foreign diplomatic representatives is intended to implement the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and that officials and officials are obliged to protect it under the threat of sanctions. If someone in a particular case of Washington dispatch has not handled this dispatch properly and has not marked it properly, this cannot yet mean that the relationship, such as the right of the public to information, needs to be completely changed. And we know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had a major problem in this matter by reviewing computers and phone records for a large number of diplomats and workers at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am sure that such a provision is controversial and I hope that the applicant will also change it in the next stages of the procedure. Somehow we would say that some changes are important and necessary. Some go to that category of legislative amendment "a la card". It is said that in view of the current political needs of the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Member Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on knowledge matters brings many urgent corrections, harmonisation, innovations and improvements. And I would join myself all those who spoke of Articles 24, 24b and 24.c. These two new articles in this law would be welcomed because these are provisions that are beneficial to people. We Slovenians travel around the world a lot. On the one hand, the standard has increased in recent years, and on the other hand low-cost airlines have also contributed. If I only take the data in the last quarter of last year, there have been 614,000 private trips in Slovenia in the last three months, of which 44% were abroad, there were 107.000 business trips during this period, of which 82% were abroad. And there can be a lot of unpredictable situations, events, problems, stolen money, stolen documents. It is the duty of the Slovenian state to take care of citizens to help its citizens. Only because of these new provisions in the law does this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on external matters also show support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u144	Thank you very much. However, the Minister shall be involved in the debate. Here you go, Minister. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I have heard some interesting comments that I will try to respond to in as short and as understanding a way as possible. Of course, I think it is clear to everyone that changes to the existing law are necessary, necessary because the international situation of Slovenia has changed. Not to say what's changed. Our membership in the European Union has changed and so on. I allow that the proposals we bring to Parliament are not the best and that they can be further improved. The proposals are on the table and will be decided by the National Assembly. In general, I cannot accept, of course, the criticisms expressed regarding the situation of the Foreign Ministry in our country. Some of the claims or some of these comments were even slightly below the level. The fact is that Slovenia holds the Presidency of the European Union, and this, according to many confessions, is very successful in many opinions. He's got a lot of work to do. He's got his hands full. Our ministry is at the heart of this presidency. Let me say that I just spoke to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and I need to speak to the German Foreign Minister in a few moments. In short, our activity is extremely intense and, of course, we do not want to have too much problems in this activity, which is important for the whole country. My colleagues and I will listen carefully to all the criticisms and also try to improve the text, if possible, in cooperation with the National Assembly and those comments that are constructive. If you don't mind, I'd just like to have a few sentences on the subject of the debate that has been held so far. Political director. Slovenia was the only European country that had not known the position of political director until the start of the presidency and therefore had some problems. We authorised our Director-General for Bilateral to do this, and once we sent each other, but our partners abroad in the European Union, in particular, were surprised that we do not know this institution. Then we kind of improvised it. It is now in law here, and I think you will agree with me that our legislation needs to be adapted to the laws of other Member States of the European Union. What should we do if we are called to a meeting of political directors, either in the Organization of the United Nations or in Brussels or elsewhere, for example, during the presidency; I think this change is necessary. Second, as regards the Secretary-General. In fact, the Secretary-General in our ministry is in no way different from the secretaries-general in other ministries. The Secretary-General is a function, a position to carry out daily work in the Ministry, technical matters and practical matters. The Secretary-General is not a politician, not a politician, but someone who can manage the system. All the ministries here have secretaries-generals, and they don't have the highest number, so to speak, to say the highest address. For example, the Ministry of Defence does not prescribe a general's address, a brigade or anything like that for the Secretary-General's office. And we don't have to do that either. By the way, I don't think we have too many ambassadors in Slovenia, but we have too few. And because we have too few of them, we must also, to put it this way, capture candidates for ambassadorial cities from the scientific sphere, from the political sphere, from the cultural sphere and so on. This has been the case since the very beginning of this country, and it is likely that it will continue for some time until our diplomacy is fully professionalized or until the diplomats themselves are career diplomats in this diplomacy. A few words about protecting classified information. You have just those who warn us that we have been encouraged to do so because of some events in the past. But I think the solution here on the table is very normal and very appropriate. We act somehow in the spirit of what they know, say, even in the NATO alliance, with documents or with the designation "unclassified". These are documents that aren't secret, but they're not for the public. And I think that even when it comes to foreign affairs, it is necessary to understand that some documents are not for the public and do not need to be published. And we should also have the right not to allow the publication, for example, when it comes to diplomatic notes, records of meetings, talks with foreign diplomatic representatives, negotiating points and so on. Negotiating grounds or, say, recording talks with diplomats may not be exactly secret documents, but we're hurting ourselves if we publish them. That was probably not the case in the past. I have heard the question of how we will allocate money to our citizens and citizens in distress if we do not have a representative office in a particular country - through the European Union's representations. If a new Lisbon Treaty is adopted on 1 January, our citizens will have much more opportunity to exercise their rights or to protect their interests or to help them in distress, because they will be able to address all possible addresses, if they are related to the European Union, and they will be able to address what we call the common external service of the European Union, which is in the establishment that will begin as of 1 January 2009. With regard to the statement or comment on the reduction of standards, I would like to say the following. See, the proposed provision of the new Article 37a regulates the possibility of temporary use of a lower title abroad. This is especially the case where a diplomat himself applies for a lower position abroad and is therefore temporarily using a lower title. This means that the diplomat retains all the rights derived from the local title on his return to the internal service. Why is this solution even necessary? Look, we have, say, 190 diplomats in Ljubljana. Of these, there are 77 authorised ministers. In short, very high-ranking diplomats. At the same time, we know exactly that Slovenia has a very small number of foreign representations. If we were not able to apply and deploy to a lower job, some diplomats would actually lose the opportunity to go to work abroad, because the highest titles abroad are relatively few, about 15 jobs. However, if we wanted to go to a lower job, we could even lose the already acquired title at home, which we would find unacceptable. I also heard some comments on my account or personal comments, personal attacks on myself. I wouldn't answer them, because it might be an opportunity, and maybe it won't be necessary. My job is what it is. I would like to tell our friends from LDS, although they are not here, that I was proposed by the late President Drnovsk in 2000 and in 2004 by Janez Janša, current Prime Minister of the Government. If things were really what I hear they were or were supposed to be or were going around the head of some of our Members, then I probably wouldn't be proposed for such a place. Although I would also like to say that no one is unmistakable, no one is in his position forever and forever. I'm not even going to defend myself, I'm not going to dramatize the position. The position of the individual in the government is very easily variable. There are precisely certain instruments for this. The opposition can use these instruments. She's already predicted there will be, and then there won't be. There are options, if not before, but of course after the elections. Of course, I want all those who are so critical that, for the first time, they will be successful in the elections, and for the second time, they will find better solutions after the elections than those they think today are bad. However, with all these criticisms abroad, Slovenia today boasts praise, but it is also true. You can be sure of that. From this contradiction and this difference between the external view of Slovenian policy and Slovenian foreign policy and these internal accounts, of course, is enormous. And that difference is really incomprehensible. Of course, I understand that certain people have political ambitions. He's had political ambitions for a long time. He's been following us for a long time. I wish I could have realized your ambitions once. He is now old enough to finally show something in the foreign policy field. As I can see or hear, he's preparing to become an outside minister. If his client rules, of course, it will be possible. And I wish him good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you very much. A fellow school replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u147	Thank you very much. If Mr Minister were more real than ever, I would depend less on rumors and more on what's going on. A few minutes ago, he said he was talking to LDS MPs, his friends who weren't in the hall. If he takes a good look around the hall, he will see three LDS members from 11, two SDS members belonging to him, if I understand correctly from 29, he has two members from the SLS and no one else from the coalition. From this point of view, Mr Minister, it is our ambition to discuss this law, the situation at the Ministry. But we would ask you to focus primarily on the things that are said here. I called mainly because things are still in writing. As always, you're telling the truth this time. Members of the LDS are several times more at this time in the Chamber if we look in proportion to the Members of your party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u148	Thank you very much. However, I invite a Member or a Member of Parliament, Aleš Gulič, to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u149	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Of course, in the National Assembly, the coalition and the ministries have been filling us with many laws for about three months now. Needed and unnecessary. The kind that regulates things backwards, and those that are supposed to go beyond the term of office. This is, of course, done in such a manner that the National Assembly is more difficult to carry out its work. This law also came before us just before the end of the term, even though it was time to think about it. Mr Minister himself, of course, was able to think all the time because the minister, or year less because this law was adopted on 25 May 2001, is said to be now 7 years soon, on the day of his birth. And surely all these problems, which he states will solve with change, have occurred before. This endless concern for citizens is, of course, a great "lari-fari". It's been a problem for seven years. Surely there is more, since we did not have even health insurance agreements with some countries, such as where tourists are large, graduates. Like Spain. I don't think that's settled today. Now all of a sudden, in these sensitive hearts, this great concern for citizens has emerged. And in fact, one would just believe that it has appeared, at least for some citizens, this concern has arisen. For those of course who will have to be put in some way by the end of their term of office. About 10 ambassadorial cities will be emptied due to the duration of the mandate: Moscow, The Hague, Vienna - Vienna is already empty, Bratislava, Washington, Brussels, Kiev, Denmark, Berlin, London. And, of course, why don't we actually enforce this rule that it's better to have people there than to leave these things to the career diplomats who are waiting for it. But it takes a little adjustment to the law. So, to push this thing forward with regard to citizens, with consular services, also to promise to help someone financially, so that people can grab and, on the other hand, shoot their game. To speak on one side about the importance of knowledge, experience and all that and, on the other hand, to lower the criteria. What I am proposing from this place is the withdrawal of all amendments, from Articles 1 to 12, and the full revision of the law. If the law really needs all the corrections, then these matters must be taken very, very seriously and prepared and corrected in such a way that it is also suitable for serious treatment in the working bodies, as well as in the public concerned. This is not just about citizens and the foreign ministry, but mainly about the status of diplomats, about the position of secretary-general, and then about the introduction of the position of political director, which is actually linked to the Presidency, if I have understood all these arguments correctly. Of course, it will also serve later, but the presidency will be over in a month and a dozen days. Article 37a is certainly unacceptable because it interferes with the rights of diplomats already acquired and does not comply with the career principle. Such legalization of the temporary reduction of rankings when moving abroad without clear rules and criteria allows arbitral decision-making, to whom, when, why. Well, if we translate it arbitrarily, it'll be done at home, as it would seem, and wherever it might seem to send someone. Of course, we already have some of these, I would say, very, very loose criteria in another article. What we support about consular aid is, of course, but these matters should also be explained, say, to all those who have so far sought consular assistance, and even received it. So, according to what criteria these provisions have managed to implement so far, I don't know, get someone out of Rome to Ljubljana, because when he came from Iceland, he lost his money, but it was all that could be arranged. Was it also arbitrary, or was it in principle some, and what was it like in this case, because it happened this year, for example, and we know that we do not yet have this law? And so on. I hope that this law will not, above all, allow us to invent interesting cities, such as Namintaki or Belatrix or any more interesting country. As far as document secrecy is concerned. You know, everything that the minister used to call undefinable or something like that, documents like that, you can pretty well put it under internal secrecy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Comrade Zampernik. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Comrade Bogdan Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Comrade Skull, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u151	Thank you very much. In a way, I am sorry that the Minister is not here, that there are enough of his co-workers, and I sincerely believe that he is probably talking to someone for official purposes, that there will be no misunderstandings. If we stay with this type of argument that he has put in place here, if there is so much going on with the Minister and the Ministry that it is therefore necessary to amend part of these rules, it is appropriate to say that this Presidency, as colleague Gulič said, will be completed shortly. The rules will also apply to those who are at issue. He's also using other reasoning tricks to convince us to accept everything in one package. He's talking about consular aid, and he's selling us his HR kitchen. So we can adopt those provisions that are related to consular aid, but we don't need to plant those things that don't belong. But even when we are talking about the need to harmonise the rules for possible future common foreign policy, we need to have some guards and be careful. What do I mean? We are getting a proposal by this law that certain solutions be enacted under the assumption that the Lisbon Treaty will be ratified. What if it doesn't? The provisions of the law will apply and will be binding on Slovenia in relation to its citizens and, as is likely only true, to other citizens of the Union. These are things worth considering. The Slovenian Foreign Ministry is certainly very successful in convincing and forcing Parliament not only in this situation, but also in others, to adopt certain documents laid down by the Treaties without Parliament being able to read them at all. So we've actually competed twice for the ratification championship, let's say, according to the old European Constitutional Charter, but it's still not clear what's going to happen today. In this marriage, we are once again in a position to accept something in good faith. I would like this treaty to be ratified, but in view of the objectives of foreign policy, our Slovenian announced at or before the start of the Presidency, this objective has already moved away in the past six months. What if it breaks in one of the countries? What will happen to these provisions? Also regarding the obligation to protect documents. I firmly believe that this solution will be worse than the current solution in combination with all the regulations we have in Slovenia. Diplomats are obliged to protect the material and the data they have and their supervisors are obliged to classify those data and documents which they think cannot be accessible to all by only making them available to those they belong to. In fact, such an open-ended dictatorship will mean, as I have discussed before, much of the disputed situations can. We will be able to obtain the material we receive from the Ministry at this time, such as for the GAERCA meeting, and for similar institutions, if we receive it from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and make a public comment, we will be in violation of this law if we withdraw it from the Internet, where it is practically available at the same time, because some countries are considering it, but not so. I don't know why around some story where a series of mistakes happened, changing a system that was pretty pretentious, only people didn't use it. If someone marked this famous Washington dispatch with any marking under the rules applicable to us on the classification and protection of classified data of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the situation would be significantly different. He didn't do it. Word conversion, if, there are unsorted documents, there are also famous non-papers, which does not mean that there are some things. However, there are also requirements for certain old ones to be labelled with appropriate levels of protection. And if that's not quite clear, you can think of a third and a fourth besides these two, build up a rule, but this change of law covers the shamparija, and I'll say for sure this time, the minister and his closest associates back. We are in a situation here that, as I said at the outset, we need to change certain things. The Minister and his immediate family did not comb the entire law, but they should, they should have given some solutions, which ultimately set up certain things that today's sceptical parliament is capable of. They're skeptical professionals in your house all the time. Parliamentarians received comments from the Union of Slovenian Journalists in turn. A good part of the argument against the adoption of this law, which I have heard from various sides, is built on this. And you keep your ears shut before that. That's the problem. While the minister and his chairman do not have time to meet with people who point out the problems of the network and talk to them. If this marriage goes smoothly through, Minister Rupel, skilled as it is, he will say, there was an opportunity for everyone to say everything, the possibility of you being missed, the possibility of marriage I got covered and again we will have a close "gold", friends, political companions who will have an appropriate formal education, certainly some credit to the Committee on Foreign Policy, and I have no doubt that there will be a meeting of the embassies that are opening up. Regardless of who will replace him if he is even a substitute minister, it will also be your responsibility to come here to the National Assembly. You're listening to this all the time, and unfortunately there's no effect. They are also protected by the Constitution from state officials and are expected to be treated in an absolutely different and careful manner with regard to the comments they hear in their work, in public and also in Parliament. This isn't about politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I believe that Mr Minister has a lot of phone calls and obligations, but I don't care right now, but I am interested in those questions that I have also asked and raised several times in the context of the questions I have sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about human resources policy. I could now update the stories about why the graduates were not accepted on the invitations, but were students for some jobs during the presidency. It would be possible to ask a number of other questions why even diplomats, for example, are not good enough to work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if the degree of distrust of our Faculty of Social Sciences is already so great. But the story that I repeat here or offer under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs is, in fact, the "shagger of the season" or the "shagger" of this mandate. The interlocutors, competent interlocutors from the Union of Slovenian Diplomats, warn Members and Members of all parliamentary groups that their weighty comments by law-makers are easily exaggerated. However, it would be good to take them into account because I think they point to the specifics of diplomatic titles and the complexity of this profession. But the'shager of the season' is also this law in the sense that it lowers the complexity of individual titles or tasks and makes these matters unacceptable to the official structure but not to comparable standards in other European countries. I have had quite a few contacts with MEPs and MEPs from the European Social Democrats' sister parties, members of the European Union, and I have had the opportunity to listen, and they have expressed their scepticism about the Treaty of Lisbon. Well, we don't have this scepticism, and we probably don't know the backup scenario if the Lisbon Treaty isn't signed. What happens to international treaties and more is another matter. But this was just the basic purpose, I guess, when we accepted this novel, but then everything turned out differently and actually something added to the consular aid, but most of all we're dealing with the human resources problem. Let me draw attention to the fact that the situation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is such that another working body has had the opportunity to deal with relations and human resources at this Ministry beyond the Committee on Foreign Policy. To think of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, you probably already know, co-workers with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These are notable cases called at the responsibility of some, but things do not move anywhere, no matter how many addresses the complaints or calls after the execution of the court’s judicial decisions are addressed and how many times they are sent. The whole other story is, of course, the one related to accessibility to information of a public nature and to the limitations that this novelty brings. I think that the failures we have witnessed cannot be excused in this way, so it would also be good to consider whether it is really appropriate to close matters to the public for failure to do so. There were problems of a different kind. We don't have the answers to the questions that have been asked there. Also, how much time some data may be stored and whether they are properly stored and also properly obtained. Of course, it is possible to hide in the interests of the State and cover a lot of things with it. But as we say, the interest in information is also very important. I will not continue here now the story of how career diplomats would deserve a better solution, but I think my fellow Members and colleague have already warned of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u155	Hardly, but still, according to 49 seconds. As it is said, we believe that from Articles 1 to 12 the least that can be said is the controversial introduction of such provisions into the law which actually interferes with certain key things. But I would like to say that today is a symbolism. No one from the foreign ministry, not the Minister, not the Secretary of State, is defending this law anymore, but the Secretary of State in the Office of the President of the Government, who is a specialist in security and defence matters and who has been skilfully hiding from Members in the last three and more years all the data relating to defence and security policy, and perhaps this political director is written on his skin. We'll see what happens after the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u157	Two more minutes, short. I'm sorry that there's no minister again, because I'd like to argue with him, but I'm sending the Secretary of State a few thoughts. The idea that we have too few career diplomats and that we are therefore also recruiting ambassadors elsewhere, in other areas, we could believe that career diplomats who are at home would not complain and warn that this practice is too common. In this regard, I call once again on the Ministry not to make the proposed amendments or appointments of ambassadors in the coming time, except in cases where this is inevitable and necessary. For we know that there are quite a few ambassadors who can be extended their term of office. And it wouldn't be good if it turned out to be one of those human resources kitchens that would hurt the references of the good candidates themselves. Therefore, leave those appointments, which are not inevitable and necessary, to a new mandate. About the law itself. Look, we have before us, but it's not about politics, it's simply about taking into account the opinions of the unions in your house. Six solutions are proposed. Now try to take them into account for the second treatment, sit down with the unions, rethought their solutions. Those you really will not be able to accept, justify them accordingly that we will know on the Committee on Foreign Policy what is unacceptable and what is wrong. I believe that unions work in the well-employed and also in the well-being of the ministry itself. And not least, when the minister claims that everything is in the best order inside the house. Do, I'll give you the initiative, what the police have done their time, do an anonymous internal survey to see if the employees are really satisfied with the level of satisfaction and what are the improvements that come from these kinds. I think that such a constructive approach would be welcome, and I tell you that we will give support to the Social Democrat to a law that takes account of union solutions. If he doesn't take that into account, he won't be supporting us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u158	Thank you. The text is also given by the proposer. Mr. Shinkovec, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u159	Thank you very much. In fact, the Minister has also given a very detailed answer to most of the questions, including those mentioned now. That's why I wouldn't do it again. I would like to repeat what he said that we look forward to constructive comments. And I am sure that we will also include all those comments that can be included in this law below. I think that a number of comments made by the Slovenian Diplomats Union have already been included. However, I would like to touch on some matters that may not have been fully reasoned. As far as consular assistance is concerned. Consular aid has been so far, we've been doing it, I've been in diplomacy myself, as you probably remember, and we've been doing it "ad hoc". We didn't have the right basis, we wanted to help people maximum when they're in trouble, and we'll finally have a legal basis for not having any questions about why we're helping our citizens abroad. The position of the political director is not linked to the Presidency, I think it was misunderstood. It is about being in the European Union and all the other Member States, at least I think we know all 26 colleagues, that political directors who do not have exactly the same function. It is different from country to country, but in fact it is for someone who is immediately below the political level in the ministry who is concerned about the formation of a country's contribution to the common foreign and security policy. Since Mr Anderlich also mentioned my possible ambitions, I must tell him, when the ministry was in trouble, I was asked if I would take over. I said it would be temporary until the end of the presidency if it worked out. Because two jobs at the same time are not that easy. I must say that this must be a professional function for countries that are not members of the European Union, where we meet at the level of, for example, the troikas of political directors, usually by state secretaries or ministers. And I think that this ad hoc solution has been properly regulated, probably by the end of the presidency. Later on, I absolutely assure you, I have no ambition to ever be the political director of the Ministry. That's all I wanted to say. And to your second comment on the transmission of classified information. I've never been authorized to determine who we can pass on this information to. The relevant services in Slovenia are for this purpose. And they're sending these services, and I can't do this alone, and I couldn't determine. It was also misunderstood about the Treaty of Lisbon that we needed to amend the law in order to adapt to the Treaty of Lisbon. We need to amend the law in order to adapt to the provision of Article 20 of the Treaty on European Communities, which is then provided for in Article 17 of the Treaty of Lisbon, concerning the protection of European Union citizens in third countries. So this isn't about ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u160	Thank you. All the debaters you wanted got your word. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Check-in is on; five minutes. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u161	Well, Mr. Secretary of State, you probably read what the government sends to the National Assembly, and you're here to defend it. The article, which provides for a political director, sets out what he is supposed to do. The explanation of Article 2 is quite clear. And this explains: "The role of the political director is horizontal and coherent in the field of work, which is substantively covered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular in the area of current affairs of the European Union, with the political director being a key person for the formation of positions. However, during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the tasks of the political director are also..." and so on. If it is true that this government, this ministry needs a political director, as you are introducing him, then I would expect them to do so after the emergency procedure last fall. And you didn't do it. But now that it's over, and because it's going to go through the law on a regular basis, the second reading will only come into force next month, if you're lucky, and if you don't know it, or if you don't finally think about it, the law will only enter into force in July. Who are you telling these stories to? Don't you know what you wrote down? But if you have to do this on duty, then I read from your explanation that you need this political director during the presidency. I didn't make that up. It's your marriage. And you are listed as the second to defend him here. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I don't know who else is here, which is native to this law, you are from the office of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It does not matter if you think that you can tell your Members, ups, pardon, none of the coalition is here anymore, is it, Mr President, you save honor just by chance, it is also likely that both Vice-Presidents are not currently in this position, but you do not need this debate, you will not take the comments into account, you can say that you will take them into account a hundred times if you do not support any of them now in the debate. You say union support or union comments are taken into account in the text. They're not. After you have sent the law to the National Assembly and when the debate started here, it is possible to read in the media and also what Members get from this post office is seen as something else. I absolutely accept the changes that are going in the direction of adjustment to regulations, in terms of time, on dynamics, on the development of the European Union and so on, on the need for consular assistance and so on. But why, from the first to the 12th articles, where it is explicitly spoken of as human resources, and once again, as human resources and priorities that you will carry out by the fall on the basis of this law. And then you'll say that the law allowed you to do so. Are we going to make a bet? I'm converting to you the names that appear through this type of frame and direction and will appear in the final selection. We will do this later, Mr Secretary of State, it makes no sense for the assembly to be burdened with this. The point is that you are better acquainted with the professional, diplomatic service with all the attributes of a career diplomat and so on, the union's comments are better known than yourself, as well as the situation in the house that you are now trying to restructure in some way, to do so in a way that pleases the truly, truly loyal people who are rightly oriented and who swear to continue doing so. And as far as classified information is concerned, Mr. Shinkovec, it's not true. You, too, have deceived and hidden information that should be provided to the President of the State, the President of the Government, the Ministers, the Members, the Judges and those who are explicitly listed, contrary to the Slovenian Constitution, contrary to the law on classified information in the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly. So far, you've been covering all this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u163	Mr State Secretary, you said that the union opinion was taken into account in the proposal before us. The extent to which consideration is given is the second question. We have received material where the union explicitly states that most of the union proposals have been rejected by the proposaler. We didn't hear why today, but we expect to hear it. If you do not look again at this material and in the six solutions proposed by the union: Article 1, Article 2, Article 4, Article 8, Article 9 and Article 10. If you don't take this into account in the next-reading material, then we'll put in the appropriate amendments. Then there are two possible routes to the appropriate amendments. One, simply say, as is usually the case in the National Assembly, that the Government does not support it or does not explain why. This will show you how to treat parliamentarians and the public, whether you will attach yourself to solutions. I believe that if they are prepared by the union, they are in favour of better quality work and better organisation in your ministry. It is important for me to establish this partnership. To conduct this social dialogue within the Ministry as well. So that the situation, as is fashion today, does not happen to predict the sentence that we may not, not during the presidency, because everyone is a little scared now, have all the strength to succeed in the presidency, but after something can be broken. We wouldn't want that. I believe the new government, if you can't do it on its own, will do the survey I proposed. Do the survey and find out what it is, anonymously of course, no one will be afraid that no one will be afraid of their future career path. An anonymous survey that will objectively show the state of relations, relations, hierarchy within the Ministry and will also show ideas for better organisation of the ministry and for career diplomats to really get into effect. My call, and I believe all your calls today have been well-intentioned. We expect you to take them into account, but you will take into account the material that already exists and that is justified. I didn't hear one reason, one objection to what the unions are proposing. I am therefore surprised that you have not heeded these six proposals. They tell us, all the parliamentary groups, that unfortunately the proposaler did not take this into account. I hope and expect that with a little more optimism and greater joy we will go to the second reading of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and that you will also receive the support of the majority in this Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-19-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u164	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 20 May 2008, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
