ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Matjaž Han, Ferri Horvat, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Dr. Marko Pavliha - from 18:00 on, Marjetka Uhan, Alojz Sok and at the beginning of the meeting members of the LDS Group. I invited Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to all agenda items and representatives of the Council of Justice, on the 24th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone. We are moving on to the agenda of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 15 February 2008. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SD Group and indeed they propose to withdraw from the agenda the proposal of the Lands Act, the second dealing with the amendments and the decision on the amendments. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 22 February 2008. Would you like a representative of the motions? Yeah. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the National Assembly, in pieces and with different intensity, we deal with provincial legislation. This is one of the reasons why it is more difficult for us to agree on the content and which makes it more difficult to find common solutions that are acceptable to all. To talk about the fact that any of the 5 laws that we deal with is so independent that we can adopt it ourselves, without being connected to others, is not true, not objective, is bad. We regret that the Government has agreed to such a relationship, but in particular we regret that the ruling coalition in the National Assembly has ignored the opposition's proposals so far to consider the laws together, and that it should also be assessed together, which would be possible solutions that would lead us to the outcome. Not only will we put the laws to the vote, but we will expect a random result. Otherwise, you'll know about it in the coalition because you'll be pre-arranged and we won't. The result in the province's legislation can only be achieved if joint agreed proposals are prepared on all essential solutions to the province's legislation, and also, although not the most important, the Law on Provinces is one of them. Therefore, we suggest that if you wish to continue a joint conversation, today we withdraw the Law on the Provinces from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Trofenik, you only have three minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u4	In our parliamentary group, we join the proposal of colleagues from the SD to withdraw the proposed law from the agenda. If I say very briefly, because there is little time available, we agree that this can not only be a coalition project, but that it is a broader project, not to say an All-Slovenian project. Solating with an illogical order of adoption of the law and solating by adopting individual laws from a package which are co-dependent cannot lead to the goal of being an all-Slovenian project quality regulated. We therefore, of course, support the withdrawal of the law from the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. I'm opening the application procedure. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I must say that there is certainly no argument, as has been made by the applicants, that if we want to continue with the substance of the provincial legislation, then this law in the second reading, in which amendments are to be adopted, should be withdrawn from the agenda. We, too, believe that laws are substantively and even on the other side of each other, but we will have to start once and for all. If you said to continue, at least that's how I understood it, then it would certainly be right to put the amendments to the vote, to decide on the amendments, and then, on the basis of the amendments adopted, we see where we came up with some common points, to certain starting points, precisely with this land law. You know, honourable motioners, there is a need for a decision to be made in the National Assembly. I don't think you've been elected to the National Assembly to be, or that you're going to be, for almost a year now, wondering what happened before, chicken or egg. At least certain laws should be introduced at the point of the final decision. I think it is high time now that we want to continue with the provincial legislation that you are - at least that's how I now understand Mr Potræ to put these amendments to the second reading of the vote and at least see how far we have come with the law on the provinces. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we do not see any valid reasons for withdrawing the point from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next one, I would like to remind you that this is not a debate, but that this is a decision on a motion for withdrawal and this is an explanation of that. Mr Milan Friday, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will clearly support the proposal to withdraw the 13th agenda item. Our decision is not new or is not based on today's judgment, but we have, in fact, always debated, in all the procedures for the adoption of provincial legislation, stressed the need for legislation to be adopted in a package. And to exclude one law from this package and to make one artistic impression of how this Parliament actually adopts the law and thus opens up the possibility of further discussion, it seems absolutely unnecessary to us and this is one game that the coalition wants to stage in front of the voters. In this game, the Liberal Democracy will not participate. We feel that there is no need for us to adopt one of the laws today, or we are dealing with amendments, because this law is directly linked to everyone else. And look at the anomaly that would have arisen. We will meet with the law, for example, on electoral units where we will talk about 14 electoral units and discuss on the basis of a law that has nothing to do with that law. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy, we support the proposal of the two parliamentary groups that have written this and proposed to the National Assembly not to hold a debate because it would be irrational, unnecessary, pointless and would not lead to the adoption of provincial legislation or a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on the provinces was sent to the National Assembly in the first partial package of three laws of the provincial law, which was certainly a mistake. The provincial legislation, all six laws which have been transmitted to Parliament in two parts, constitutes a closely linked and related package of laws that cannot be dealt with and adopted in individual parts. In some ways, the order of treatment and adoption of the package of provincial legislation is defined and requires first a decision on the number or size of regional units, since some of the foundations of the solution contained in the individual laws contained in the package are closely dependent on this decision. Since the basic law has not received the necessary support in the National Assembly and the package of provincial legislation is incomplete at this time, it is pointless to deal with the Law on Landscapes until conditions are created for the widest possible consensus on the way and model of regionalisation in Slovenia. For this reason, we propose or support the proposal to withdraw the draft law on landscapes from the agenda of the 36th regular session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič noble has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we generally oppose such a method of regionalisation, which is intended to be introduced by the largest group not only of the coalition, but also of the opposition. We are confident that such regionalisation is scratching Slovenia, diminishing the power of Slovenia and the only consequence of all of this will be that we will be even easier to prey on a foreigner who is already interfering in Slovenian land. Styerska is already largely purchased by Austrians, Crassus is being bought by Italians, now Croatia will start soon and I do not know what else will be left of Slovenia. Regionalisation generally gives the governors of those small, small landscapes the opportunity to deal with everything within these small units, which means that in short Slovenia there will be no more. Perhaps in 100 or 200 years, we will reunite in a new state of Slovenia, while many things will happen, disappear, and sink into oblivion. In general, we are against regionalisation and will therefore be happy to support the withdrawal of this law. However, I think it is generally pointless to discuss regionalisation, especially if we compare it with regions in Europe. The smallest region in Europe is larger than half of Slovenia. We intend to make from Slovenia 14 some, I do not know what, local communities of Munich. I think it's funny if not tragic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. We are not against the provinces in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I estimate that the provinces are one of those elements that will allow for the balanced development of the whole country in the future. It is not right to move away from the landscapes and ignore whether the karst will be the area of Prekmurje, Koroška or any other region. That's not a solution. Today we see where this lack of interest has led us to the provincial package. On the other hand, some argue that it is a matter of buying part of Slovenian properties, territories, while they do not want to change. It should be pointed out, however, that the proposal, which was very selfishly created by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is selfish in that it did not invite much of the profession, whether it was outside Parliament or within Parliament, to participate in this hybrid of the 14 provinces. Within the framework of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the withdrawal proposal, but for two reasons. First of all, all Members and all Members of Parliament received on our side a proposal Thursday for a constitutional law stipulating that we have six provinces in Slovenia, as far as history indicates and as far as they indicate rounded units. Today, until 12 o'clock, I invite you again. You have time to proceed with the drafting of a constitutional law. On the other hand, I would like to say from this city that the provincial package, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is based on the excessive fragmentation of individual marriage materials. And by accepting the day's consideration envisaged by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or envisaged by the College, of course, it would mean that we are closing our options. We all know that the first government law, the Law establishing the provinces, has been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with 14 provinces. During the parliamentary debate, there was a negative attitude towards such a very fragmented Slovenia, so of course it is right that we hoped to express our failure to address the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when proposing 14 provinces. It is interesting, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims, in another attempt, that it will try to offer 12 provinces to Parliament and through the parliamentary procedure. From this title and from the content of the Lands Act, which are bound, it is, of course, reasonable to wait with this package. Firstly, in the framework of establishing the number of provinces. From this place, I predict that, even in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Republic of Lip, unless we obtain a sufficient number of signatures to determine the six provinces, we will very soon introduce the Law establishing the provinces into the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the withdrawal of the draft law on the provinces. Support for the withdrawal of the draft law on landscapes and the continuation of the procedure concerning the establishment of landscapes in our country is pointless, politically unwise and, above all, this action has been rejected against citizens and citizens. Since 1995, we have been waiting for some kind of upgrade to local self-government, and none of this has happened in any of the previous governments. Today, when this government drafted legislation, brought it into the National Assembly and even coordinated it with the opposition, no minister previously coordinated any law with the opposition. Of course, the opposition now opposes this for one simple reason, which is called political calculus. The opposition is politically calculating what is worth more and wants or wants, which I am sure will not succeed, cream from milk, which will only be collected in a little while. Look, when the government came with the package, just as the opposition demanded, after the opposition demanded that the three are too small to go with the entire package of 6 laws, the coalition understood and waited for the decision in the second reading. We've processed the legislation in this way. It's just a matter of deciding. When there were all six laws, the opposition was not satisfied with certain matters, but it did not have any better proposal. It is no wonder, however, that both the Liberal Democracy and the United List have become so liberal, so open to citizens and citizens that they do not follow the laws on a procedural or decision-making basis. However, many amendments were tabled by the opposition. There are even some that we will support, which are for the benefit of citizens and citizens. We decide and we want [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The reasons for supporting the withdrawal of the 13th item of the agenda was given by a speaking colleague in front of me. There's almost nothing to add to what he said. He listed everything that warrants our proposal to withdraw this law from the agenda. We will certainly support this proposal from the Group of Social Democrats. For this is our proposal for withdrawal, which is a consequence of everything in the past. There has been a complete confusion in the area of provincial law. In the first package we discussed 3 laws, despite the fact that we wanted to address it in the package, we failed. So we got three laws in the fall, two of them went missing, they're gone, the third one in this package is on the agenda today. It is true that this marriage was the least controversial, but I do not know why it is necessary to rush this law now, given that the other two laws are not yet in place. Then we had a second package of provincial legislation, when, also because of the inadvertentity of defining individual areas, he experienced a lack of support in this House, so that we did not vote on this law. So there are two left to deal with next month. At least that's how it provides for a plan or timetable for the work of the National Assembly. At the same time, the President of the Government is forecasting a new law on the establishment of landscapes, which will determine new areas and a new number of landscapes. We do not know what this law will look like when it comes to parliamentary procedure. There is a lot of confusion, and that fundamental condition that we have repeatedly advocated to deal with the laws in the package is clear to us that the laws in the package cannot be adopted. Even today, unfortunately, it is still not fulfilled. Of course, we cannot tell that the Group of Social Democrats does not support the regionalisation of Slovenia. Throughout all the mandates, we have been working for the provinces, of course for the provinces, who will perform their functions, which will have their content, not just for the provinces. And when someone today is talking about that we are elected Members and Members of Parliament to decide, of course, that is also the truth, and that does not mean that we have to accept everything the Government proposes. The use of reason also leads us to proposals such as this one today that this bill withdraws from this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 22 in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. With regard to the enlargement of the agenda, the Group of Members with the first-signed William Rezman of 21. 2. 2008 proposed an extension of the agenda of the 36th session by considering the application for the organisation of the winter university in Maribor in 2013. That proposal does not fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure and will therefore not be examined by the assembly. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. 62 Members and Members, 47 votes to 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the agenda for the 36th meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on the conclusion of the procedures for the return of supported assets, under the regular procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! What are the objectives and principles of the bill before us today? The aim of the law is to ensure that the procedures for the return of held property are completed as quickly as possible and to remove some real obstacles to the completion of these procedures and to enforce the constitutional right to decide within a reasonable time and the right to effective legal protection. The bill does not extend the range of beneficiaries and does not allow the application of new rights under the Denationalisation Act. Since the proposal for a law under the Denationalisation Act does not provide for new entitlements, it will have no new budgetary implications. What are the main solutions to the law? The bill allows for persons born in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to also be born in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why these persons are normally Slovenian and later for various reasons have changed their residence and moved to the territory of the former republics of the former common country and have the nationality of one of these countries, which is from one of the federal units of the former SFRJ, to exercise the right to denationalisation of the maintained property. Where proceedings are pending under the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the law allows the court, on a proposal from the applicant, to terminate proceedings which are not yet legally completed and to waive the application to the local competent legal authority to decide on the matter on the basis of the Denationalisation Act. Many who have simultaneously applied for the recovery of property seized under the Denationalisation Act and under the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Act have withdrawn the application for the Denationalisation Act, as the decision was based on administrative and judicial practice under the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Act faster and the judgment on the annulment of the criminal conviction by which they were deprived of their property was sufficient to prove it. Later, administrative and judicial practice changed. Claims under the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which would normally have been granted, were rejected and a request under the Denationalisation Act could not be re-submitted due to the time limit. The proposal for a solution follows a consistent implementation of the rule of law, the principle of equality and the principles of trust in law. The proposal for a law to speed up the resolution of denationalisation procedures lays down the deadlines for the completion of denationalisation in judicial proceedings and prior procedures for the identification of nationality. The proposal provides for a three-month period for a decision by the Court of Justice of I and II. rates in denationalisation applications. The decision of the Administrative and Supreme Court is subject to a period of 30 days, 60 days for the Constitutional Court, and 60 days for the decision of the Ministry of the Interior on the transitional issue of the existence of citizenship. The proposal for a law regulates legal possibilities for the registration of returned property or for the registration of ownership of that property in the Land Book, by means of identification certificates or laboratories and by registration in the floor property on the apartment or by the corresponding entry of the co-ownership interest in the dwelling house. The bill allows for the return of the held property to a citizen, one of the countries which originated in the territory of the former common country, subject to material reciprocity, provided that his country recognises the right to return the held property to Slovenian citizens. The proposal also provides some technical solutions to facilitate decision-making in the most complex cases. All the technical solutions provided for in the draft law follow the legal framework laid down for the recovery of property seized in the Denationalisation Act, which follows the starting point for the proposal not to extend the range of beneficiaries and the range of entitlements. For legal proceedings in which beneficiaries have failed for which of the reasons clearly defined in the draft law, the proposal provides for the possibility of filing an infringement within a short three-month grace period. This exceptional legal remedy enables the rule of law and the principle of equality and the principle of equal protection of rights to be applied consistently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u21	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Koren, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u22	I send a good day, a messenger, a minister! The Internal Policy Committee on Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law on the completion of the procedure for the recovery of held assets at the 39th and 41st meetings of the Committee. At its 39th regular session, the consideration of the draft law was postponed, as the debate showed a majority view that it would be appropriate for municipalities to be identified by the proposal for a law. Following the hearing at the 41st meeting, the representative of the Ministry of Justice pointed out in the supplementary explanatory memorandum that the aim of the bill is to ensure that the procedure for the return of held assets is completed as quickly as possible and to remove certain legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures and to enforce the constitutional right to decide within a reasonable time and the right to an effective remedy. The draft law introduces deadlines for the conclusion of judicial proceedings and preliminary procedures for the identification of nationality. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that, in their view, the title of the law is too broad in relation to the content of the proposed solutions, which in fact do not mean the conclusion of all denationalisation procedures, but only deal with some very important issues. They therefore proposed in a written opinion that it might be more appropriate to achieve these solutions by amending the Denationalisation Act rather than by special law. Members and members of the Committee took different views in the debate on the solutions to the draft law. Some members of the Committee expressed their support for government solutions, stressing that the aim of the law is good because it wants to speed up the resolution of denationalisation issues and to remove some legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures. They stressed the need for denationalisation cases to be completed as soon as possible since 1991 and for this area to be definitively settled. On the contrary, other members of the committee felt that the purpose of the proposal would not be achieved, but would result in new complications and injustices. The proposed solutions, according to some, extend the range of beneficiaries, create new rights, provide new remedies and create additional financial burdens for the state and the municipalities. In particular, the problems raised by Article 7 of the Proposal for a Law were highlighted, and this article was later outlined by the amendment. The representative of the proposer responded to some of the concerns expressed in the debate and explained that the bill does not extend the range of beneficiaries already established by the Basic Denationalisation Act. It is not a material law, but a procedural law whose main objective is to solve and to end the most difficult cases that remain unresolved. In a number of decisions, the Constitutional Court has pointed out the slow progress of all state authorities in denationalisation cases and has issued a call for a swift resolution of these cases. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI, SLS to Articles 4, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 12. However, he did not accept the amendments of SD, LDS and Ambassador Franz Žnidaršič. The Committee, as its amendment to Article 7, is to delete the article. All the amendments adopted are included in the amended bill, which is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first consideration of the bill's proposal to present the views of the parliamentary groups at its 32nd meeting, it is not possible. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by the Commission. 2. 2008 I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In view of Mr Sturm's further explanation for the bill's proposal, let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we do not believe the objectives that the Government has written in law and which Mr Sturm is also reporting today. For us, the basic objective that the Government wants to achieve is to ensure, in any way possible, that the proposals it is preparing ensure and speedily ensure to all beneficiaries, many times also in unreasonable short periods, the requirements that they have already submitted. We admit that denationalisation is taking an unreasonable long time. However, we do not accept the argument that the fundamental reason for this is either unemployment or the unwillingness of administrative and judicial workers, but a bad law. Whatever it has been adopted, the fact is that the law has caused many unnecessary actions in the selection of documentation, many problems in the circle of beneficiaries as well, and that it has simply not been solved in the way that the legislator has imagined in the short time that he originally predicted in a few years. Nor is it true that the law will not bring new material obligations. It is also not true that it indirectly does not give rise to a new right or creates a new legal relationship. The fundamental objective, however, is to end denationalisation at any cost. What's this price going to be, and this government won't say. We have also asked her so far in the proposal for a debate to propose amendments that after the adoption of the law a final report would be needed to tell us what was actually going on with denationalisation. Neither the government nor the National Assembly accepted it. Therefore, each of us gathers some information in pieces, and then we become angry at each other that these information and assessments are incorrect. The latest assessment made by the compensation fund shows that over 500 million euros have been spent on various forms of denationalisation payments. What's the value of the property that's been returned? There's no data. During some of the questions that we asked a year ago, the ministry even said that there was no data. Which I don't think is true. But he doesn't want to make them, because a few years ago, a decision was made to collect data. And we don't want data by person, we want data by group. In short, there are a lot of problems at this point. And one of the fundamental problems we see in the law is that the government wants to uncritically speed up the return process. It does not recognise, however, that, in the current process of solving the problems of denationalisation, the group of citizens has been affected. And in Article 6, we see a group like this. These were the ones who, all the years that they had the right to be tenants in apartments that were later denationalized, invested considerable amounts in these apartments, many also large funds. Many also have funds that have significantly increased the value of returning homes. Many also have the resources that have actually enabled and enabled them to stay or become dwellings. To these investors, the State did not recognise the funds or the possibility of repayment, nor did it recognise the possibility that the party would be in the process of denationalisation because it could exercise its rights and operate in the same way in this law. The amendment to Article 6 seeks to eliminate this and to include it in the right to the resolution of denationalisation requirements, including those who have invested resources in apartments returning to denationalisation beneficiaries, in order to ensure that they also have the right to co-ownership of these dwellings and that this would be equal to one and another denationalisation issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application list. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. I would like to ask you something to limit our debate to the amendment to Article 6. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will not discuss anything other than the amendment to Article 6 but, as long as you later allow any broader debate, I will re-apply and take this right myself, to the extent that others will have it. As regards the amendment to Article 6 of which the drafter is the Group of Social Democrats, I must say that in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the self-appointed Lipa, we will also support him. However, they were supported for reasons which are also mentioned in the explanation of the amendment. The Denationalisation Act has restored a certain right to many people in that country. Is there really anyone who has made this law possible to them, I will say, those real beneficiaries of this return, if we know who is the largest beneficiary in this country, that is the second question. My colleagues here are warning me that this is about redressing injustice. You can call it that, but believe me, and I believe that you will also realize that you will correct this injustice in the event that you support the proposed amendment, because the families that lived in these apartments, especially the last greed, or I will say the correction of the injustices in the claims you mention, are also happening in Styria. There are more and more of these families, these families, of course, in these apartments where they lived, did not have a bad sense of how much money they could have been living, I will say in decent places. Any former legislation and legislation prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow them to do so. Only this amendment, this supplement, will make it possible to make the law conditionally acceptable if this complements and any further relating to renters are acceptable. The tenants of the business premises were, not least, a large number of them, for example, the Agricultural Institute in Maribor is already one of those who invested enormously in the building. They have now been put before the fact that they must leave this building no matter how much they have invested and all those 40 employees will not go on the road, nor will they be provided with a spare space and land to carry out their activities by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If the same happens to families living in so-called denationalized apartments, then it seems to me that this is not the right way and not the right way to adopt such a law. On the other hand, it will also be necessary to limit the rent when certain apartments and dwellings are returned to denationalising beneficiaries. It seems to me that it would be necessary to define already that it will not be some sort of story and that it will be sold, that we will eventually have no more apartments, on the streets and on the roads of the people we already have. These are also things that the law should regulate, and these amendments that we have before us to a certain extent all these injustices or to correct injustices do not harm the perceptive people who have lived in these dwellings so far. And so it seems to me that all these amendments are needed not only from the point of view, I will say, the greed of someone who would like to have something back or because he once promised to get it in those four years ago, because otherwise I cannot explain to myself how it is possible to do it in three months, which someone could not have done in 12 years, it is necessary to ensure both one and the other rights that go to them. As I have already said in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Republic of Lip, we will support the amendment to Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 6 tabled by the Group of Social Democrats is, in fact, trying to correct to some extent what was poorly done in the Denationalisation Act. In fact, the sin that their ancestors committed at that time to even allow the adoption of the Denationalization Law is trying to correct at least to some extent. We will support this amendment, which we consider to be very good, even though it is to put out a fire with a small claw rather than to settle matters at the very beginning. The fact is that people who have lived and who have had housing rights in apartments that have been denationalized and in which they have invested considerable means of modernisation, repair, what I know, roof, windows, doors and all together and installations, are now simply pushed aside and have no right to receive any compensation for this. The undeniable fact is that the value of these apartments has also increased with these inputs. We must also remember that most of the Slovenian real estate fund was owned by insurance companies during World War II. The company Slavia had about 80% mortgages on all properties in Slovenia. After World War II, the mortgages disappeared, to some extent, of course, but of course, they later completely disappeared. After our independence, he decided that those denationalized or nationalized would be reimbursed for their debts. It was already a great stupidity, already it was a capital mistake and, I would say, somehow a gift in the first place to the Roman Catholic Church, which in this way acquired enormously. Many individuals have also been acquired, whose houses were mortgaged and, in many cases, before they were dispersed. These houses have been restored, the apartments have been repaired, those who have been there have invested, invested, and have now actually gone without it. I think that this amendment to Article 6 is at least correcting this matter to some extent, and therefore it makes sense to support it. We'll back him up. In principle, I can say right now that we will also support all the other amendments tabled by the Group of Social Democrats, as well as the Zares Group of Members, because we think they are correcting things, at least to some extent. I think it's about time these things were settled a long time ago. The time has been from 1992 until today, and it is actually only today that these matters are being settled. Although I fear that matters will not be settled, that the coalition will not vote on these amendments and that the law will go forward as it was prepared. It was written on the hand of the Roman Catholic Church, which will gain even more, or will not achieve the goal of bringing it to an end as quickly as possible with small owners and with those who were injured, but the aim is to confirm and definitively secure the property of the Roman Catholic Church. Nevertheless, I think that in future times the law will have to be amended to the extent that such matters will be corrected. After all, we must not forget that there is a wide range of legally valid documents that do not allow later corrections, and yet this has happened. And if we consider only the agreement between the Maribor Congregation and the parish of Maribor, after which, at the time of the former Yugoslavia, there was a trade agreement for certain properties, but then these properties were donated after our independence and donated to the Roman Catholic Church, which demanded it. This includes, of course, the Betnav Castle, which includes large areas of forests in Triglav National Park and so on and so on, in the Savina Valley, near the Upper City and so on. In short, the amendment makes sense. The amendment is necessary, the amendment is necessary. At least to some extent it corrects these injustices, which should have been eliminated at the very beginning, or the Denationalisation Act should not have been adopted at all. One more time. The blame goes to the ancestors of the Social Democrats, who did not leave the Chamber at the time, in this way there would be no conclusion that they could support the Denationalisation Act, but then certain private interests prevailed. But let history talk about it and let those who deal with it deal with it. One more time. We will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I am not mistaken, we are talking about the amendment to Article 6, although the previous debate was intended for another content. The talk was about Betnav, about forests, about the Roman Catholic Church, although the amendment was about housing, about co-ownership, about co-ownership and ownership. So I would really like to discuss the content on the agenda and the amendments currently under consideration. However, as far as this amendment is concerned and as far as the debate is concerned, I think it is one very large misunderstanding of content. Look, the amendment that's been tabled doesn't represent the content of the law that we're dealing with. The amendment that has been tabled refers to the content of another law, or two other laws, namely the Denationalization Act and the Housing Law. If the applicants would like the content of this amendment to be useful and necessary, then it would be appropriate to table a proposal to amend the Denationalisation Act or a proposal to amend the Housing Law. For in these laws is written the content of which they speak to the amendment. I personally disagree with the content of this amendment. I don't think the proponents are right. But even if we were right, we should initiate this content in another procedure - to amend the Denationalisation Act or to amend the Housing Law. For the law which we are considering today speaks only of the completion of the procedures for the return of held property. So the content of this law comes from the content of the Denationalisation Act. This law cannot in any way amend or supplement the Denationalisation Act. It only speaks of the content of the Denationalisation Act being completed as soon as possible or within the time limits and after the procedure laid down here. And that's the purpose of this law. Not that this law changes the content of the Denationalisation Act. At the same time, there is one great misunderstanding of what we are talking about today. For this formal reason, this amendment cannot be supported in any way. However, I firmly believe that the content proposed by the proposers would not have succeeded in the procedure that should have been put in place if they were serious about actually proposing an amendment to the Denationalisation Act or actually proposing an amendment to the Housing Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. He also greeted the Minister with his fellow workers. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support this amendment because it is good, it corrects bad, I will say in the proverbial pre-election law, which corrected the injustices that were committed after 1945 in a way that caused new injustices and, above all, the great financial consequences for the owners of these apartments mentioned in Article 6, for our citizens and citizens who have worked hard to get away from their mouths, have put in good faith also in the apartment that this apartment is theirs, and now someone is trying to take that right away from them. Similarly, for the congregations, what was the primary purpose of this law, which is also corrected by Article 6. It was so that we wanted to return, I'll say, even those things that are in the broad public interest and I'm glad that there were quite a few of us out there that we were able to spread this 7th article, which wanted the water lines that supply a few thousand people and the schools to return to nature. The same is the story of this Article 6. This will undoubtedly have a major impact on citizens and, above all, in the final stage of this story for the congregations. We have invested a lot in these apartments, in congregations, in covering, in new roofs, in repairs, in improving these apartments, and now we would like to take it all. Finally, it is in these basic principles, which should be taken into account by denationalisation, and in the 17 years we have not been able to resolve them in order to complete the matter quickly and quickly. You have also said this in 2005, and I must say that today we have the toughest, most complicated nuts that we are trying with some kind of "ad hoc" handmade witch's solution under the carpet, so that we will uncritically return everything and in three months finish the matter regardless of the consequences. Telling someone he'll finish this within three months is simply blasphemous because he can't handle it. All those who, however you decide, will, of course, continue to complain in all court cases. And from this city I am responsibly saying that the story of the possibility of denationalisation will not be concluded either in the next five years. In Slovenia, with the help of the judiciary, and I must say that many, including the judicial system, have built a click of quarulants who are prepared to sue until unconscious, to end up costing the local community and whoever else they want. In the congregations, we have procedures for building roads, for the sake of such people, and this law does not save this story in any way. Otherwise, you've made excuses, many in front of me, even to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly recorded a number of such matters as should be taken into account in relation to Article 6. Let's say it's a 1997 decision. At that time, it adopted a legal position that the basic principles of asset recovery set by the Zden can only be changed if the criteria of the strictest judgment are met. These are three essential criteria: the change must be indeed justified; it must be inevitable and must also be necessary in the public interest and must satisfy the principle of proportionality. The applicant is also likely to claim that it is only a matter of facilitating the implementation of the current return regime. Which he doesn't. That is precisely what Article 6 does to benefit others. This is to the benefit of those who returned to these apartments. It follows that, without a doubt, if such solutions are adopted and such amendments, which correct them, will not be accepted, then we can also question the constitutionality of such solutions. Then, interesting decision 52/6 of 26 October. There, the Constitutional Court also laid down the standard that in denationalisation procedures not all the general principles of civil compensation law apply. This would be the case because the law or amendments tabled recognise new compensations, and it is no doubt that we extend the range of beneficiaries and recognise new damage and compensation. It is also interesting to note the important decision 72/93 of 20. 4. In 1995, in which the Constitutional Court adopted a legal position that the failure to use nationalised assets to submit a denationalisation claim does not fall within the scope of any compensation to the beneficiaries for this non-applicability of use. And I understand the fear of those who want us to discuss only the amendments today, that the truth, what we want to do, does not come to the ears of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you very much again for your word. I cannot understand how the same discussions are still spreading as they have all along. He doesn't want to be serious about the amendment, but it was an amendment to spread a discussion that had nothing to do with what had been tabled. My predecessor just spoke again about how the content of this law is expanding, how the circle of beneficiaries and similar fiction is spreading. Just the opposite. No circle of beneficiaries is being extended, no content is being expanded, as the content is laid down in the Denationalisation Act, which is only the extent of entitlements and claims that are now being promoted by this Act to the final realization. And nothing else. What expansion of the beneficiary circle and what expansion of the content of the claims and so on? Where did you read that?Oh, my God! Why are you deceiving people? And when my forerunner speaks of the fact that there is a wide range of Querulants, who are suing the congregations for enforcing their claims. How did you hope the mayor of your people, to name your citizens with quarulants? I can't understand it. When a person, through judicial institutions who are to judge, wants to exercise his right, he is opposed to a quarulant! This is unacceptable, unacceptable for the mayor of one municipality to compare his people with the Querulants. So where did we fall?Oh, my God! Above all, we're talking about Article 6, and we're talking about why you're talking about everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u36	Thank you very much. See if someone who has to get, say, 2 million assets back and has already filed 31 complaints against the courts because he wants 5, and does not recognize half-brothers and half-sisters of the right to this property, then the expression that I mentioned is definitely on the spot, especially because of the 31 complaints he has already filed, he has lost 16 already, but he will continue, and he is also encouraged by it. Because of someone who is currently living from the social assistance given to him by the congregation and this country, he has a few euros worth of property to get back, which he has already been reimbursed with a legal decision, but he complains, he would still, he would have more and more. He would have taken a water line that supplies 5,000 to 7,000 people, he wouldn't have to build a road that would take 3,000 people. And these people need to be told that the story is over and they pour pure wine, and you like it or not, Mr Kovacič, whether you promised them before the elections that they would raise your hand and throw your voice into the box. It's about simple honesty. My generation for the injustices of the 45th year is not guilty and not responsible, but it suffers the consequences of what you do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u38	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We're in 2008, not in 1991. In 1991, it would make sense to table such an amendment as we are now talking about. For we are talking, as it were, about the conclusion of denationalisation. So, we need to know that denationalization, whether you want it or not, goes to the end and ends. If not this year, certainly next year. I've informed myself of how these procedures are actually concluded in administrative units. And I have to say that I have from a few administrative units information that the thing is actually going to end, that they have five more, ten more cases. But also of these, say, five things, are 90% solved, there's only a small percentage of these things that are still under way. The law under consideration is a procedural law, not a substantive law. And that's why I don't see a possibility here in this process law that we can adopt an amendment like you're proposing in SD. However, I must say, given the initial presentation of the amendment by the motioners, when it has been said, we do not believe the objectives that have been expressed here again today by the Minister. The question is: Why put amendments into a law for which you do not believe the goals at all, do you not believe that the law itself will achieve any purpose? I think it's about time, or it's sad that in the 17 years, things didn't work out. However, I am confident that this law will also bring about a successful conclusion to this denationalisation. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have only one case to say. My wife or herself was a tenant of the apartment. When we moved into the house, we didn't get any compensation, we invested a lot in this apartment, and it didn't even occur to us to ask for any compensation, because somewhere we used to take it as the good we had at the time. I was just investing so I could have a better, nicer stay in this apartment. But when I left that property when I left the apartment, I didn't think about any compensation. Maybe a word about the complaint. It is true, I say, that in Slovenia we have people who are sick twice, three times, of this: a complaint about a complaint. I think we've already made laws that want to end this, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potsch has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you. Thank you very much to all colleagues and colleagues who, in the amendments tabled, see some rational arguments and complement our explanations for the amendment. At the same time, I am not surprised by those who are opposed without making any arguments. Allow some thought in this regard. First. It is right to point out that my vision or vision in the Group of Social Democrats is that the allegations that often appear that the pain is the denationalisation of the parties' consensus in 1991 are unrealistic. He was accepted by Demos' majority. And this is legally accepted, but it's not true that this agreement is a party. At that time, many parties strongly opposed the concept and content of the law. In order not to list all the proposals we have made at this time, I can assure you, whoever has a wish, I could also mention them with any oblivion, from spring 1992 onwards, written proposals which have been made several times to the law on denationalisation, several times to the housing law, submitted separate rules. But Mr. Dimitri Kovacich is right. Even if they were today, they would be free of charge, as they were then free of charge, because the current coalition in no composition of the National Assembly was willing to support them. Sadly, though, there are times when some other ruling coalition has seen a heavy burden on it. But I think that's the right thing to know. Why were we making amendments to the law? So that we can at least try to correct an unacceptable law at least minimally if we are prepared to do so. And now the great accusations you're making to those who say the concept of law is not really presented. I believe that Mr. Minister will say something else in his performance, but look. The explanation for Article 2 of the Act states that this is a new right. A natural person who was a Yugoslav citizen at the time of the maintenance, and now is a national of another country from which the SFRJ fell apart from the federal units, is entitled to denationalisation only if such a right is also granted to Slovenian nationals of whom the beneficiary is a citizen. In short, reciprocity was envisaged. Such an arrangement is not fair to persons born in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I am not talking about whether the solution now gives these people this right is bad or good. But I say it's new and it's not true that there are no new rights. This right is new. Article 11, which introduces, proposes a renewal of the procedure, the legal procedure completed. Anyone who is not satisfied with a procedure so far has the possibility to reopen the procedure already completed within three months, provided that it is not possible to foresee new rights and new material obligations. I don't understand it and I only read the law. Therefore, let us read it, and have so much news that you will say, yes, some new rights we believe that it is necessary to introduce that this law is not only procedural, but also introduces some substantive rights. Procedural assumptions are unrealistic for my view and view of social democracy. If you command someone to save them within a period of time, then you tell them to do so, even though it is not an imperative norm, it is directional. But most officials will do just that. In the end, we'll have inquality decisions. If it's a wish, and I'm saying that, given the direction of this government and this minister, it's a wish. Even in the face of inquality solutions, procedures need to be completed, regardless of the fact that we all know that they are at least in housing relations, I think that Mr Pece or whoever has spoken has also mentioned, no, Mr Zagorac, also the rental relations, even with tenants of business premises, and many others, the direct injustice that denationalisation has caused in a new way, and so many and so many thousands of people have been faced with it for 15 years. No one is willing to be tolerant of them and seek solutions. Any proposal that is in this direction has been rejected, Mr Kovacic. You once say that it belongs to the Denationalization Act, once in the Housing Act, once in a special arrangement, but always in a material and substantive way say no. They must not be rectified by the injustice that this new country has done to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Potch. Whether I personally agree with what you just said or not. But what you said should be enforced by a proposal to amend the Law on Denationalisation or the Housing Law, and not by amendment or amendment to this law, which is procedural in nature. This law is the law of procedural nature. And when you talk about bringing back everything they make up now, it's a complete lie and a deception to the public. Absolutely not. Only what is already laid down in the Denationalisation Act adopted in 1991 and nothing else will be returned. Nothing else can be resolved by this law. This law only refers to the procedure of reintroduction within the law, which has long been adopted. And nothing else. The frame is set. It was set up 17 years ago. The beneficiaries have already been set up and there is no widening the circle of beneficiaries, no widening the circle of content. And when you talk about reopening the procedure. Yeah. But the renewal of the procedure is an extremely legal remedy that can determine that a violation of the procedure has been done to someone and that it will be possible to remedy that right. Not something new, but only what belongs to him under the Denationalisation Act, which was adopted long ago and is still in force today. And nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u43	Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Unlike my predecessors, I will talk about Article 6 which is the topic of the current debate. Look, the amendment after Mr Kovačič explained the situation, even I believe it does not belong to this law. However, if you already consider him to be a judge, I would say that this amendment was tabled with a populism or a third option, that it was a flawed one. We must be aware that before the adoption of the Denationalisation Act, it was possible for some to invest in apartments that were not their own or that were leased by a community or anything. And they invested, but that means they didn't really know how and what at the time. I completely agree with that. However, this investment was made before 1991 when the law on denationalisation was passed, but in 1992 all these things were already more or less clear who owns or at least the applications were given. All the investments after that date, I think they were irresponsible for my notions because they needed to know that someone owns the place and that it was necessary to agree with the owner or the future owner. I think it's essential that they themselves should know that they are investing in some foreign property, and be so careful. That makes perfect sense. At that point, these things were, again, somewhat irresponsible, unplanned and then executed. However, they still have the opportunity to agree with the owner on this completely free or through lawyers. In fact, I see no reason to put this in this law on completion, I stress, on the completion of denationalisation. I would also answer the statement of a respected colleague who is not here, Mr Jelinčič, who claimed that the burden was returning freely. From a case I personally know, I am responsible for saying that this is not true. If there was a burden, this burden has always been taken into account and has been deducted from the amount refunded or refunded. This claim is not true, in this case that I know. Now, if other cases were like that, then the case could be different because of me. However, in a case that I myself know, this matter has been very much carried out and it is not fair to say that these things were not in accordance with the rules, laws and moral obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My opinion, too, is that this amendment does not belong to a procedural law, but rather to a substantive law, and I hope that we do not open it today, because we will not end this law for 17 years. Definitely. I think it's been going on too long, from 1991 to today, that some cases are still pending, and I strongly believe that something has come to an end lately. But it's true that the rest are the hardest cases. And that's exactly what this bill is about. It's been very optimistic for three months, on a 17-year basis. However, I hope that by the end of this government's term of office, this story will slowly conclude that this acceleration of the completion process will also be governed by this legal basis, so that the beneficiaries will somehow come from the year 1991 when they adopted it in Parliament to receive the final epilogue. But I think all these amendments are true. They don't belong here. It is right that this constitutional right is decided within a reasonable period of time, which is a Slovenian problem, not only in this case, but in such and other cases it is too long to wait and drag things on for so long. I think the purpose is good, I welcome it, positive that today is not the subject of a debate from 1945 and 1991. This is behind us, already done by the forerunners and today is the subject of this proposal, how to close as soon as possible the 17-year story of the illegal confiscation of the assets of those beneficiaries. This amendment, as has already been said, does not fall within this context in my view. But if it does, let the lawyers, the experts, say it. If they belong here, perhaps something more can be said about this at a meeting of the home-worker’s committee earlier. I support the law, but I don't support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. There is no doubt that the proposal for a law on the completion of the procedures for the return of the property, which is the result of the Denationalisation Act, is a law. Mr Kovačič, when he wishes to present arguments against our amendment to Article 6, is also wrong. However, if this law understands that it is not related to denationalisation, then I do not know why the applicant has incorporated a decision of the Constitutional Court relating to the land on which public roads take place. That's what this law solves. According to his logic, the Act on Denationalisation should also address this issue, and it should not. It is covered by the law on the procedure for the return of supported assets. That is why our amendment to Article 6 is completely corrected, not only corrective, but mainly life-form. It is a fact that neither the new owners nor those who have become owners under the Denationalisation Act have been solved, nor have the difficulties that tenants have in such apartments been able to resolve. But it's about everyday and persistent questions. And yet another great mess has been brought about by the Denationalization Act. Someone who lived in an apartment that was not the subject of denationalisation could buy it off, indeed at a very low price under housing law. The fact is that this has put the tenant in a denationalisation apartment in an unequal position. And with this amendment, we actually want to eliminate this inequality caused by the law on denationalisation. And if there is any purpose, if we are already discussing the completion of the procedures for returning this property, surely the relationship to these injustices that have arisen must be resolved. In fact, we save our relationship with both owners of denationalization apartments and tenants. We both want to recognize the appropriate compensation if this problem cannot be resolved in some concerted way or if it is not damaged by one or the other. And it seems to me that this is one of those concrete proposals that are far more just than all the other content in this law. But you refuse this, I don't know why, but certainly not for the living reasons of those who live in such apartments and are in a very difficult situation compared to others who, for example, had the opportunity to buy the apartment under the housing law. That is why this amendment is truly necessary if we are to achieve at least something good with this law in order to eliminate the injustices that have arisen. I hope that, for the most part, this support will be such as to eliminate these shortcomings or injustices, not to reopen them, because this law will certainly open up new possibilities, extend the right to return property and extend the possibility of those tenants who will fall under such new rights. So, we're expanding the circle and extending the rights to those existing ones, but surely someone who may not have even thought about applying for denationalisation will apply for it, and under this law will. At the same time, we must be aware that if we return in nature, we certainly also cause injustice. And if we want to end denationalisation, then in my opinion this is the only way to stop returning in nature, which was not returned for such or other reasons, but to pay compensation. Not to return in nature, because it is the most difficult return and causes the most problems for all, both the congregations, the country, the neighbours, and I do not know who else. These solutions, in my view, are under-examined, reckless. Returning in nature, I'm sure, will only prolong the procedures, not shorten them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u49	Mr. Kovacich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Weber is obviously not aware of the fact that Article 7 refers to cases where buildings have been built or reconstructed in public interest, such as public roads and so on, that in these cases the way of returning these properties is also introduced, that this has been deleted from the Internal Policy Committee. Thus, this argument, which he stated that it is also a matter of law governing the substantive new area, does not hold true. If this was at a time when the law was prepared and placed in the procedure, if that was the case at the time, it certainly is no longer true today. This article, or this provision, which is considered to be proof that I am wrong, today this argument is no longer true. That's deleted. Today this article is no longer available, so you are wrong to state this as an argument for your claim that it is a substantive new regulation of the area, which is otherwise regulated by the Denationalisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u51	There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr President, if you are going to say that this is a debate, I also accept it because I know that I have not been appointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u53	I'd really rather discuss it. Is there anyone else to discuss? Three, four. Here you go, Mr. Potch, and sign up. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The truth is, respected and respected, this law is scandalous if we accept it. Why? You simply claim to be the law of procedural nature. The fact is that the law introduces new rights is what the predecessors have already said before me. And that's an indisputable fact. And who is privileged by this law? To do this, however, it is necessary to look a little more systematically at this law. The Roman Catholic Church also received that property in nationalization or denationalization, which was nationalized when it was already paid in cash. And those who were credit-worthy at the time, during the time of Jasbinska, also bought five apartments. Those who weren't, and none. There were also examples of families living in apartments where so - called fillings were not available. And yet they invested in these apartments. And today you do not even consider that there is a difference in the time of delta so. Today you will not give justice to those people who have renounced their normal lives to receive the refund. They invested in these apartments. Who are you giving your rights to again? The ones you're counting on, of course, to support you on the stage. That's what you give rights to. This law is demagogic, scandalous, and look at it a little bit better, and you will see that you are essentially extending the range of beneficiaries only to those who have already given them the rights prescribed in the past. We in the Slovenian National Party are in pain when we look at who got everything back in the nature of the property. Taking into account, the fact of how he acquired it, however, is much more painful, on behalf of the sale of leave in the past. As has already been said, it is the introduction of new injustices, especially for the population that was socially affected during the period of independence and democratic procedures. In Slovenia, we no longer knew self-governance and social assistance, we just forgot about it. And the fact that these people couldn't buy an apartment. And today you won't even give them that right to get that right to the deposit they actually put in the rental apartment. You won't even give it to them. You're causing new injustices. We generally oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party, but we support this amendment, because we think that it at least softens everything that breaks out of this law and it is ridiculous that we accept it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u55	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u56	I'm sure the committee did a lot of work when it deleted Article 7. However, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the procedure in the National Assembly is one that can really improve the content of this law. The fact that the applicant did not know exactly whether he was introducing a law on denationalisation or a new law, which is called the law on the completion of property recovery procedures, is what I am talking about, and I claim that the applicant does not actually have clear ideas as to what he wants or is difficult to trust with what he wants to achieve by this law. And the Committee has also made this clear in its decision. Today we are at a meeting of the National Assembly, where we actually want to solve another of these problems caused by the law on denationalisation and will also generate this law on the completion of the restitution of property. These are new beneficiaries, new opportunities as well as new cases of irregularities that will take place in the case of leases. And this amendment solves this problem. And he needs to be saved in this marriage, not waiting for any other marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that I'm going to tell my colleague Webru first that what matters to me, I'm afraid the proposaler has very clear concepts. Its only aim is to ensure that, under the existing law, with some additional rights, there are not many, but - since it was not before the Minister - that the new Articles 2 and 11, which are new rights, ensure that the denationalisation takes place as soon as possible, regardless of the price and costs for the country. Another time. Taking into account investments is part of this law and could be the content of this law because it does not solve housing rights or the right to use the apartment, this was indeed the case with the housing law. And, Mr Janc, I would be very grateful if you would look at what your relationship was like when we tried to solve this problem for a narrow segment, this is for the janitors, and what the opinion of the National Assembly was at that time - a big debate as to how this is not going. There wasn't anything about whether it " happened" or didn't " happened". It was a concrete content that could be specifically regulated. Even the minister made promises, but today it is known that he has made promises and will not do anything. In two months - but the promises are that this would be a year earlier - a new housing law will come. I guarantee you, the Group of Social Democrats will table amendments, and we will see whether you will then substantively discuss or consider everything as just an excuse, just as an excuse, Mr Janc, that you do not have to be in favour. Because, listen, the Member can do what he wants, but don't insult me, Mr Veršnik, if you're talking about investment, and you're talking about investment after 1991, when the law was passed, then don't insult me, you're talking nonsense. And by saying that you have no idea of the denationalization law. Those who have invested since 1991 certainly have no right, and here you are right. However, it is now a legitimate, documented, allowed investment for denationalisation. And that's why I'm asking you not to cheat on things like this, because someone is really going to believe you. It's the same about the burden. Read the book by Dr. Alexander Bajc, an academic who wrote it in connection with denationalisation. He said exactly what Mr Jelinčič said - that denationalisation did not take into account the heavy burdens that property, land, houses, businesses and so on had. And in his view, the actual beneficiaries of denationalisation should be owners, or those who had nutritional roles in the banks and insurance companies of the time, who did not receive any rights and whose deposits were also cancelled. In fact, they were returned in nature, without taking into account the mortgages that were in many specific cases. A solution to this question would be possible if we wanted to settle it. And it only means that those who have been documented, with a permit, with a real value until the adoption of the law in 1991 have also been invested, also taking into account the rights of these investments, which have now been repeatedly rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u59	Mr. Versnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Only so much in response to Mr Ptræ, the right to return on investments already exists under the existing law. Then let's be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Bostian Zagorac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think that this institution of the National Assembly has such a developed legal service, a legal and legal service and everything else that Members should be informed in due time if an amendment is not appropriate or does not fall under a specific law. If we consider Mr Kovacic's opinion to be the opinion of a great expert and Mr Veršnik believes him, it is not my problem. I have not been informed by myself that the amendment tabled by colleagues from social democracy is anything wrong, so it is right to discuss it. If anyone thinks that this amendment is not part of this procedure, there is always a possibility of a procedural proposal to explain ourselves differently, and everyone else, who blindly believes someone else, what can I tell you, just trust me. In my first implementation, I have been warned on several occasions that it is a denationalisation of injustices. But don't be unilateral. The correction of the guilt, when the Denationalisation Act was being tabled, you only understood the denationalisation beneficiaries. I can't help you coming from circles that suit you. But let's be fair. If the Denationalization Act has caused anyone else any injustice, which it has done, let us also be reasonable here and go here to correct our wrongs. Not only where it suits you, not only where the resources come from, but also to ordinary people who cannot help you in your political careers. Someone in front of me said the amendment was populism. Is it really populism if a family who had no idea of denationalization was leaving her a roof, that roof was repaired? Because they rolled the walls, she painted those walls. Is that really populism? Is that fair? Let me know if it's populism or fair. They didn't dream of it. Would you who spoke of populism actually let your child, your wife, or at night run water on your head without knowing that you were living in another person’s apartment and that you would be entitled to a right, even to such an investment? No, it's not irresponsible, it's absolutely necessary investment, gentlemen. And when you talk about the fact that it wasn't clear until then, and after 1991, everything was clear, and they were all irresponsible who had invested anything since 1991. First thing, the amendment doesn't talk about people after 1991 who have invested. Let's read it, then press the key, 'cause we're wasting time. That's another thing. Even if they invested after 1991, it was an urgent investment, for which I believe they have the right to recover their funds because tomorrow they will lose or within three months, if I am not mistaken, their housing rights. You told them to make a deal with the owner. Let me tell you how people in Svetozarevski in Maribor can agree with the owner? They sent 18 requests for an agreement, and they didn't get any answers. Is this the deal with the owner? The owner said, "That's mine. The 1991 law said it was mine. You can either invest or you can make a run for it. Even if you're a family with children, "get out, don't let your head run." Is this the deal with the owner? And this owner is the majority beneficiary of denationalisation procedures. Let me know how people deal with him. How should the Agricultural Institute in Maribor agree with the majority owner, if not possible?Oh, my God! And you're advising them to make a deal. But with your power, you can influence your mission's authority on the very top of the RCC to start respecting agreements and have it deal with people. If you have this power, I will, believe me, and many families and people in Slovenia are still very grateful. I will gladly support this amendment myself for correcting the injustices that have occurred. No one in the National Assembly has informed me or the Legal and Legislative Service that anything is wrong with this amendment. Mr Kovacic, I'm afraid I can't believe this time. However, if you would like to reinforce your words, please ask the Legislative and Legal Service to also write this to all Members so that we can all be so vast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u63	Mr. Versnik, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u64	I'd like to explain to you that [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Please! [[...]] It was so great that I knew it was flying to me. I just want to explain that we know two types of maintenance. One is investment maintenance, the other is regular maintenance, running. And I think those two should be strictly separated. And current maintenance, I think, is more or less clear to everyone that it will fix the matter, that the roof will not leave it if it is as much responsible for the property as it is for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Here you go. What do you want? [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] That's for me to decide, if you don't mind. [[...]] I know, but don't do this to me. Anybody else want to discuss it, please? Yeah. Check-in is on. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You'll get your word right away. Let's use this time. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. Please. What do you want, Mr. Zagorac?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u67	One moment. Please excuse me. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make it clear that a replica is allowed to Members who have been mentioned or whatever [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Thank you, Mr. Stebe, you read in Lipica all the rights you had, and Lipica went you know where [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Zagorac. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u70	Can I make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u72	But as soon as Mr. Shame stops bothering me. I'm sorry, Stab. Black man, I'm sorry, but you look a little alike, you have to admit. Mr. Chernač, I apologize or apologize to Mr. Štebet, but you are a little alike. That's right. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] I didn't mention Mr Versnik in my debate once, and he got this replica. Please, if you continue to follow the same procedure when someone who will be misunderstood does not mention it, apply to the replica and you will also give it this replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I explain the Rules of Procedure, and that's what I've decided. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you very much again. I forgive Mr Zagorec for having mistakenly mistakenly mistaken us, even though we are far from alike. Maybe after the debates. Look, it's a typical process law. In my personal opinion, in some way he is trying, and I hope that he will also be successful, to resolve the blockades arising from the famous 19th Article of the Denationalisation Act. This article allows debtors, former nationalised property owners, to invariably prevent the return of property in nature with abnormally high claims of compensation, or even to argue that the property is not returned in nature, which are, of course, produced in order to delay the time of return or property in nature or to pay compensation through the Slovenian compensation company. The problems that you are trying to solve with the amendments fall into another sphere of law, in my opinion and in my experience as mayor, and in particular in the relationship between the previous owner of this property and the owner of that property, who mediated: whether it is an apartment or whether it is a business space. However, in my view, the matter must be resolved in relation to these two entities, if not also in court, and only in cases where someone has actually invested in the increased investment value of the facility. However, the investment value of the facility means that this property is significantly higher, and this should then be compensated by the abnormal or social or, in fact, abnormally low rent paid by these beneficiaries. These rentals were in some ways a social category, including a false social category, because in fact these facilities were not maintained, restored and preserved in a way that would not result from poor maintenance of the greater damage and deterioration of these facilities. Most of the objects, if you look at Ljubljana ten years ago, or Maribor, Celje or Domžale, have actually fallen dramatically and have been neglected, facades, roofs and so on. Investments after 20, 30 years of use of these nationalised facilities, investments such as roof coverings or emergency maintenance work, are nothing more than regular, not to say, investment maintenance as a big exception. But in my opinion, exceptionally, in Slovenia, there may have been cases where people actually invested in the facility in a way that essentially changed this object, in the structure. In a way, we should be doing this with a building permit. I think those were big exceptions. And such exceptions must be resolved outside the law. I have also been in contact with the company of owners of denationalised business premises, and I must say that the previous government, the former Minister of Environment and Space, such a law that would in some way regulate investment in these premises, which have the character of increasing the investment value of the facility, has been withdrawn, perhaps even for a reason. Because it is difficult to regulate such cases by law, which are, in fact, cases that need to be dealt with separately. If they cannot be resolved between the two partners, then the court must decide in such a case. All the amendments you are proposing and supporting in the opposition, I reject, after all, for a simple reason, because amendments with such content do not belong in a procedural law which has the basic purpose of ending the story of denationalisation after almost 15 years. And it is a shame for Slovenia that it does not know one law in a decade and a half to bring it to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you. Say good-bye again! I will once again say that fortunately denationalisation is coming to an end and will soon be completed. So listening here today to the scandalousness of this marriage, you know, that's a little too much. It's scandalous that we have to deal with such a law here today. That the case wasn't solved at least 10 years ago, not that we're still dealing with this denationalisation today. It's about correcting the injustices that people have suffered for 50 years or more. And now to compare these tenants in denationalization apartments with those who were able to buy apartments under the Housing Law, I don't know if it's appropriate. Personally speaking, I feel that this possibility of buying under the Housing Law was a criminal option. Guilty, not only of those who live in denationalization apartments, but of all others who were not tenants, they would also want to buy an apartment, and they never had those options. That's why I think now to compare this to those who bought it, I can really say half-free, according to the Housing Law, it's not appropriate for me. The other 80 Slovenians didn't get anything, either. And once again, I'm going to go back to saying that a lot of people have left a social apartment, and that's why they didn't get any compensation. Are we going to cause new differences today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. In the previous debate, a representative of a self-appointed parliamentary group has somehow presented himself as a self-appointed representative of the families of rental apartments, although, according to my information, because I have had several contacts with some tenants, I have not felt that they have their own representative, who is also a member of the National Assembly. That's what I think it's like to just make it up. However, it is necessary to say the following, which has already been said several times, that when we talk about investments, we should not mix investment investments with ordinary maintenance. And also for maintenance, we should consider that in this case we should take into account and return all that has been invested in maintenance and so on. One is an investment, the other is maintenance for you to even normally stay in your apartment. As far as investment and investment are concerned, it must also be made very clear that the Denationalisation Act takes this into account and that the cost of investment is returned to whoever invested in this investment. So I don't know why we're even talking about this problem because there's no problem. The investment costs of the Denationalisation Act are reimbursed to the investmentee. But as for the amendments, it is so that by the procedure available, you can submit anything and say, "I am putting an amendment." Also something because it makes absolutely no sense in the law that you're proposing an amendment to. That's the procedure. But when we talk about the amendment and discuss it, we judge the content of this amendment. And as I've said many times before, this amendment by content does not belong to this law. But that's what everyone who reads can figure out. There is no need for an official service to inform us about this. The official service can't refuse any amendment and say, "This amendment is irrelevant." That's what we can tell everyone who can read, and that's how we judge it. And if there's an amendment that concerns another marriage, I don't think it's that hard to figure it out. The law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held assets relates only to how we will complete the return of the held property resulting from the Denationalisation Act. And nothing else. All that is governed by the Denationalisation Act, all the rights and obligations laid down in this Act are the framework of this Act, which we are considering today, so that these procedures are concluded as soon as possible without taking 18 years. Under the basic law, it should last for a much shorter period of time. And because of this time something is wrong that it has not been done before, this intervention process law is being tabled to resolve it. And perhaps everyone sitting here should be interested that this actually happens as soon as possible. For laws are passed in order to be implemented. And if one law is not implemented or implemented abnormally for a long time, then it is only right to speed it up with some intervention law to do what we adopted this law on denationalisation 17 years ago. And that should probably be the interest of all of us. However, there were some comparisons in today’s debate, including the Law of Jasbinsk. Someone said that at the time when the Jazbinski law came into force, that someone who had much under his finger could also buy five such apartments, but it must also be very clear that, despite the fact that I personally consider this Jazbinski law to be inadequate and even harmful to the state, no one could buy five such apartments under this law. Just one. Only the one where he had housing rights, because buying an apartment was tied to housing rights. And every man could, except those who lived in these apartments, have only one apartment right. Thus, it is once again a great thing to say in mind and thus influence some feelings and under the influence of these feelings then decide. That's not how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is still part of this law. Today it has been heard many times that it is a procedural law that will only speed up the matter, and let us put it quickly on the agenda so that it will be over. The denationalisation, which will eventually cause additional injustice, is a poor denationalisation. And those who cause new costs and new injustices are better off never getting to the end or so late that we can clear up all the facts first. For those who were taken from their homes after the war, some were also taken hundreds of homes, not comparable to those of the socially disadvantaged, one alone, who had invested in this apartment to be able to live in it. And in 1990, when he invested, he was unable to know in good faith what matters would be accepted by the Members of that call, or what nonsense he was planning to satisfy the work of a minority in the political option, has the intention of today’s National Assembly. I tell you, there are really injustices going on here. Before that, one of my colleagues warned me about the mortgages. True, some who had mortgages, banks, credit and savings in Slovenia or abroad, because they feared, say, and knew what Hitler’s arrival meant, had been returned twice. Twice; once they sold it to the bank, they got the money for it because the papers and documents were lost or lost, we now returned it to them. Or another case, I'll tell you from practice. Some who were multiple citizens, Yugoslav, French or English, had, say, the opportunity to receive compensation from Germany as English citizens. Some have not taken advantage of these options, some have taken advantage of it and have received this compensation, but now they are still demanding property in nature from the Republic of Slovenia, even though they have received this money. Let me tell you one case. We asked as a congregation for a gentleman in a well-known Balkan archive whether he had already received compensation. We received an oral answer that this gentleman and two other co-owners, named and surnamed, had received £400,000. When we requested this document on an official basis, it is no longer available, since Karadjordjevici and some other important February are also supposed to be on the pages of the same list. And this country of Slovenia - such a law, three times procedural, will ultimately still be substantive - should commit itself not to complete the proceedings until all the documents and documents are obtained from all the archives. For those of us who were once returned to them, they will say, "What is given is buried in a black pit." Of those who have been wrongly returned, no one will return. And that's why you're in such a hurry, because you know about this nonsense, you know about these injustices, that we're also returning what's not fair and it's not necessary. For those who have been harmed and wronged, I am always for them. But to return to some twice - listen, too many people in this country live too hard to afford it. And the Ministry, on behalf of the State, is obliged before the conclusion of the denationalisation to verify all archives, obtain documents and then decide. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure you'll be interested in one case. Take a look at the story about the denationalisation of Bistrica villa in Tržič, where it is also about apartments. What was in this story for an object worth some good million euros - half of it had already been lost - in court. In the meantime, the court made a mistake. The judge admitted the error and tried to fix it, and the system, which is only procedural, does not allow it. She admitted a mistake, but does not repair it and Slovenian property, market, municipal property, will go somewhere to France or, as it is said, to the property of some modern Slovenian tycoons.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Well, the point of this amendment was, I believe, well presented and to those who know how to think clearly, well understood. It is a simple, truly simple right of tenants, and I will say very simply that they can participate in the process of becoming beneficiaries of compensation because they invested in real estate during the period when the tenants were tenants. Short and crisp. If all of you today have found that the 1991 Housing Act, that the 1991 Denationalisation Act, was that both laws were criminal because they caused new injustices, why are you today, in 2008, not prepared to correct or correct the injustices that have been committed in the past? We have a chance. We are talking about regional law, new law, possibly procedural nature or substantive nature. In this law, which undoubtedly falls under the topic of denationalisation, because the Act on Denationalisation is even a condition for this law to happen today - why do we not protect people under this topic? Why are we back on the side of capital holders, capital owners? Why are we in a hurry? My colleague told me very simply or very clearly why there is no rush to resolve open issues in the context of denationalisation procedures. Because some things are too complicated to be resolved within three months. This law is a priority of the Ministry of Justice. Isn't that a shame, respectable colleague and colleague? This law is a priority of the Ministry of Justice: all proceedings must be completed within three months! On the other hand, we have open trials before the courts, in courts that go on for five, six years, five, six years! And they talk about the lives of people, about those people who are at risk, whose status, their social status can be threatened by pending proceedings in court. About the victims of crimes before the courts - I apologize for speaking - but I want to show what is the point of doing this government. This marriage is a priority, those laws, people, and people's lives are not the priority of this government. Why? Because apparently the interest of someone back here is too strong. The interests of those who, in the process of denationalisation, have cashed the greasy sums of money. If denationalization was fair, then tell me why you explained that people were harmed on the other side. To injury, not just people of individuals, including countries, even congregations. I'm just going to give you one example of how very fair this government is playing or who, I said, have cashed the greasy sums of money in the process of denationalisation. You'll remember the story from Maribor. School in Verbanski, agricultural school, went into the hands of the RDC. It's all good and good! Despite the commitment that the state will not be obliged to pay compensation! 8 million euros came from the Ministry of Education! This is more than half of all the resources that the country spends in one year in the budget for all public schools in our country. Eight million just for compensation. Again, I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, where is your responsibility, your responsibility, the responsibility of the government? Where is the government's responsibility to citizens and citizens, all of them? We have a chance to get out of here. Fix the wrongs. The amendment fixes, eliminates injustices within the framework of the basic law or this law, the law on the completion of procedures for the return of held property - and you do not want to listen to this! I didn't hear one specific argument why. Why won't you accept the amendment? Tell me, because in the state budget, I don't know, financial costs are going to go up. Tell me! Because it is not in the interest of certain persons, certain legal persons, designated d.o.o.s. in our country, I am loathsome. Just tell me why you don't want to protect the people who invested in foreign apartments their money.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, the Denationalization Act was one of the laws that would correct certain injustices. That was in 1991. And, of course, total injustices cannot be rectified. Even when someone who was entitled to receive back his belongings, his guilt was not fully rectified. However, it is necessary to know that for so many years and so many years, not to say decades, he was disadvantaged because he was unable to manage and dispose of his property. He got his property back, but still far from it, his guilt would be completely eliminated. Well, he was still hurt by it. And when we compare this case and compare the claim that other injustices, new injustices, have been committed by this law - I do not think that is the most fair and correct. It is clear that each marriage brings certain problems that need to be solved. When we are talking about housing and talking about tenants and how they have been affected by this law and that they have been wronged, it is also very fair to say that these tenants were still protected at the time of the adoption of the Denationalisation Act. None of the owners or those to whom the property had been returned, including these apartments, were able to get these people out and throw them on the road, according to their household. But they were protected, they still had the right to live as tenants in these apartments. At the same time, the state has allowed them to solve their housing issue in a very convenient way. All of this was written in the law, only to read and see in what way. So, with very favourable loans, they had the opportunity to buy this apartment, but if not, they had the right to continue living in these apartments as tenants. And the owner of these tenants couldn't possibly get out. These are the facts. But speaking of investments, I said earlier that the Denationalisation Act allows all those who have invested in a property, so they have invested, to have their deposit returned under the same law. So talking about it is irrelevant. Of course, not all investments are made. Some investments are regular maintenance. And you need to separate between that and that. And everything that throws in one basket, and now everything has to be returned, probably not in place. You'll probably all agree. Not every investment that is subject to this, there are some criteria that exist, but all that has been invested as an investment in an object, some real estate, and after the Denationalisation Act it returns to the process. This is written in one article, I don't know which number, but in an article, this is stipulated in the law. When it's said, just so you know, all the beneficiaries come from circles that feed some. I don't know how some people say that. Whether they "feed" or not, everyone has the same rights under the same conditions. And in the same way they can exercise their rights: from the Act on Denationalisation, and on the basis of this law they may require that rights under the Act on Denationalisation be exercised as soon as possible after an accelerated procedure. And that's the purpose of this marriage and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u86	Dear colleagues and others present! In some of these debates, you speak in such a way that the problem is that it is the one who wants to return the stolen thing to someone, not the one who stole it. Today we are talking about the conclusion of some procedures, a law that was passed 17 years ago in the National Assembly, and we are not talking about the content of this law. We are just saying that these processes need to be completed and that is the point. In doing so, it must be asked whether the problem of denationalisation was or was the problem of nationalisation by the then revolutionary authorities. What was the underlying problem? Probably not the last one. It must have been a fundamental problem first. For if it hadn't been for this first, there would have been no injustice. Any rectification of injustice brings new injustices, that's a fact. That is why we must avoid doing wrong. Unfortunately, even in the present time we are not exactly in all spheres of this. Justice, the prosecution, the police - these are systems that can create new injustices with their inappropriate actions. And I'm not talking about these last things, but I'm speaking in general. I am talking about the need to have and act on this fundamental feeling. And as long ago, as many years and years ago, this act would not have been brutal and radical and caused enormous injustices, nor would it have to be discussed today. But to talk about how we will now delay the matter for a while, what this amendment is talking about, and that when we accept it, we will do more injustices, and that is not right. I think the matter needs to be settled. We are in 2008 and should focus on the things we must devote to during this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you. A very brief explanation to colleague Kovacic, who said. Do you know how this went? A prominent member of the SDS, who happens to be a lawyer in Maribor, went to the cemetery and informed who the denationalising beneficiaries were. If it's not morbid, then I don't know what it is. He sent people to go out because he found denationalising beneficiaries abroad. These were procedures. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u89	I give you my word, Mr. Kovacich, no replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much. He mentioned me. Look, just for a little while, I think we need to talk about the content of the law and the content of the amendment, not just in the home and just like we're on a payday. What Mr Zagorac just said and argued against my remarks in the debate is like being on a "place" and trading! Something to think of that has nothing to do with the law or the content. I have been trying all the time to talk about content and that the debates that do not cover, which do not affect this content, are inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mr Mitja Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, considering we have some time to save for the next amendment. I do not want to even politicise and politicise this problem, because I think that there has been a lot of this in the previous general debate. I'm actually trying to focus on the content of the amendment. I also understand the purpose of the amendment's proposal, I am also trying to get involved in people living in these apartments, but when I look at the proposed law and read Article 6, I see that it is, in fact, a procedural nature, because in the first paragraph it instructs the Authority to do so and so on, by virtue of its official duties, and so on, that it also imposes on the administrative authority in the second paragraph. The same in paragraph 3. And all that what colleagues and colleagues have talked about and disputed is actually mentioned in Article 25 of the Denationalisation Act, where things are very clearly written. Let me read just a few of them: "The property, whose value has not increased significantly after the maintenance, is returned under the conditions laid down in this chapter without calculating the difference in value. The property, whose value has increased substantially due to new investments, shall be returned, at the choice of the beneficiary, whether or not to return, to the property of the original value of the property, provided that the difference in value is paid by the compensation." Here in this law, these matters are precisely defined in this article. I can keep reading, but both marriages have to be taken in hand and read. And I think that if anything is going to be done right, then this Article of the Denationalisation Act should be amended and supplemented. This is my, I'd say, thinking in this direction, so I think all this politicization, politicization, who will now be wronged, what will come back, time will not come back - why not in seventeen years this has resolved, that's what I'm asking! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman. The topic is important and I see in view of the debate that our electorates and voters have already heard, there are also interesting e-mails coming, I have one in front of me, and that is precisely why now the majority wants to take more than it does. And that's all I care about in this story and it hurts. I am not guilty of anything from 1945 to 1950, and I am not responsible for anything, but I will be very responsible if we adopt a bad law today that will replace one injustice with another. In the process of denationalisation, only the most compelling reasons remained to be resolved. It's about three, four, maybe even less. And instead of using mediation processes, negotiating groups and other things, which is now modern in this country and considered as a fashion trend, we are going into a different story in denationalisation. Of course, the views of those, for example, who will receive back a few million assets and therefore suffer and strike against the interests of local communities and those of those who, say, earn only 500 or 600 euros a month are very different. And that's what this is all about. We are Members of this National Assembly, and especially mayors, who are in double positions to protect and defend public interest and not private interest. And if article 6 concerns a few hundred dwellings or a few thousand dwellings in Slovenian municipalities, of course the consideration of public interest is still important. Never and never heard from him. For example, we received opinions from some Slovene municipalities, but also the biggest ones, even the biggest ones, and these arguments, which they cite and which they fear, were not answered. What do they think in the Municipality of Ljubljana? The proposed law already interferes with the legal principles and extends, for example, the circle of potential beneficiaries, which of course is not in line with current practice and laws. The current procedural law imposes obligations on the administrative unit, which solves matters by determining which data and documents must be obtained further. Those key documents must be obtained both by the court, by the state and by the beneficiary who demands something back. It is not entirely clear whether in certain cases the parties will be able to submit a request for renewal. For example, when citizenship has been rejected after the present law. However, following the proposed amendments, it is different to assess the unrelated points by which we grant a foreign national the right to claim a supported asset. The principle of when a plot is considered to be a building plot is also changed. Here is the problem of black construction and also of building infrastructure. These are, in particular, new cases on the basis of which case law will only be developed. And the bill also causes further confusion and complications. If so many procedures have been completed, there is no doubt in two or three years that everyone in Slovenia will end. If we really want to complete them quickly, then only the existing denationalisation law should determine the deadlines and speed up work at all possible levels of the complaint, from administrative, higher, supreme and other courts. Then, of course, these things are, in due course, a solution; otherwise, they are poorly written for us, especially for the generation that is coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 6 and make the SD Group's amendments to the debate new paragraphs 6a and 6b. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I am pleased that in the Group of Social Democrats we have decided to table amendments because the debate on these amendments has shown how the proposal for a law is prepared on weak arguments and what its real purpose is. She also showed how she tried to coalition, I would say, wash her conscience with semi-true claims that new issues are not being settled in this law, because otherwise they should be settled elsewhere, sooner or later, more intelligently and similarly - empty speeches themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I say that I have already proved on specific occasions that the law introduces new rights. I argue that shortening procedures and faster resolution, and in particular a way of resolving them, will also constitute new material obligations. I know the government says otherwise. Now I'm going to tell you why I think your talking about being solely a procedural law is not true. In Article 2, where a speech which obtains the right to denationalisation irrespective of the conditions of reciprocity referred to in Article 9, paragraph 3, of the United Nations is a new substantive provision and a new right. This is not a procedural provision. In Article 3, in cases where the procedure under the SIKS is pending, the court shall, on a proposal from the applicant, decide to waive the matter to the local administrative authority and decide upon it after the ZDEN. This is a material non-procedural provision because it gives new content and new competence to decide on another body. Then you have a provision in law in Article 8. Where the subject-matter of the land on which, following the application of the ZDEN, an object which has not been legalised is built, that land shall not be considered to be built within the meaning of Article 32 of the ZDEN. This is a new substantive, material provision, which in a different way defines the problem of the interior or the non-painting of the building land. In Article 9, where the beneficiary and the debtor cannot agree on replacement land, the administrative authority or the court shall decide within 60 days - a new substantive provision. I'm telling you, in short, you're saying things in your mind just to excuse your conscience. And now about the 6.a and b terms. First time. 6.b Article 6b, first of all, to go to him is clearly just a procedural provision. I'd like to know what you're going to say about this procedural provision, whether it's "passing" into the law or not. It foresees that in the next 60 days, when a public authority decides on the return, it must also decide on the investment if the investor so requests. What is unprocessed here and why should, in the short term, the law, state authorities, administrative authorities, courts, even the Constitutional Court decide for the benefit of the denationalisation beneficiary and not have to decide for the benefit of the one who invested? Tell and explain whether this is equal before the law. Tell me! And whether it is a material or a procedural provision. I just want to know how vehement you're going to say that! 6.a Article, however, solves one of the possible ways to address the problem of tenants in former nationalised dwellings. There's about 7,000 of them. These have achieved injustice not only because they stayed in the apartments, but because they were committed to the new owner along with the apartment and without their own guilt because they were in this apartment, they were not beneficiaries under the Jazbinski law. The proposal referred to in Article 6a is, where either the tenant decides that he or she would also like to have physical property over the apartment and freely dispose of it, or when the tenant chooses to want out of the apartment, the tenant shall have the right to request eviction and the right to request from the Compensation Society that the owner, in real value, pays the flat in real value. Solve the renter's problem and solve the owner's problem. There is no harm to anyone, only the Compensation Society in the form of bonds pays this compensation. What is unacceptable here would be one of the possible solutions, because, Mr Kovacic, I will be very happy or I am sure that in the company of tenants, they will be monitoring your debate and saying that all the problems are solved. And Mr Chernač, even yours, when you said that those who now demand to invest back are those thieves who need to be accused and cannot be given any legal rights. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u98	To make it clear once and for all, Mr Potts, not to twist my words in this high choir. I said the thieves were the predecessors of your party, the revolutionary power that supported the property, not the one that demanded the benefit. And I especially emphasized that it is very difficult to correct injustices once they have been done. As a result, all of us, too, must realize that the decisions we make here do not create new injustices. Since I'm already on the subject, and what you're proposing in the amendment, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u99	No, no, the replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u100	And it's creating new injustices, Mr. Potch. [[...]] Read it well; I don't have time to explain it to you, then I'll have it for you outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u101	I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Two ways of recovery is denationalisation, one is recovery in nature, the other through the Compensation Society in bonds and compensation for damage. In the case of payment in bonds there is also the payment of interest, in one and the other cases from the date of application for denationalisation also for the non-applicability of use. The law on denationalisation has so far given priority to return in nature. Whether this has always been justified or not, I find it hard to say. I don't think it's always been justified. Now the legislator is trying to do everything, including through the political positions adopted by the Government, in order to ensure return in nature, but not in the form of compensation. In these cases, the compensation company has warned us that once in a while, return in nature means, together with compensation for the non-use of land, a significantly higher value and a greater obligation for the country. And our proposal is that when the authority that decides in the return proceedings does not take into account the opponent's objection to the inability to return in kind, it should take into account the material investments of the debtor and the non-application compensation before the decision to reject the objection. And if it finds that the obligation should be higher, it must not reject the opponent's objection to the inability to return in nature. Everything is in line with the Denationalisation Act, but it is an express protection of the property of the State, because so far this government has decided to confer privileges and advantages on denationalising beneficiaries to the detriment of the protection of the property of the State. I think that's the wrong thing to do, and I think it's the right thing to do in this law. And second, what the law foresees is that - governments - have delayed only the debtors, but not the beneficiaries. So it was the other way around. When, however, the proceedings were delayed by the beneficiaries because their interest in this way was to impose greater compensation for the time when it was not possible to dispose of the property. And our amendment foresees that, in the event of conscious delay by the beneficiary, the time during which such delay took place cannot be the basis for the beneficiary to obtain the right to compensation at that time. This is a provision that "constitutes" in this law because it deals with these issues and I think it also means protecting our public property, but not the government's functioning in favour of some denationalising beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask briefly if the amendment to Article 7, which is one line that is no longer in existence, is it a mistake to have the amendment to Article 8?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u105	Mr. Kovacic can read, I believe. Because he also reads many times and quotes. As it was written, so it was filed and I explained its contents.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Mr. Cernač and Mr. Potrč have been notified. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that we are talking about the need to complete these procedures, because the Constitutional Court is in one of its decisions 11 years ago, 1996 - that is, five years after the law began to apply - it has found that it is in the public interest that these proceedings are concluded as soon as possible because it is hurting the State and everyone else. It's been 11 years since then. Earlier, there was a talk that trials lasted 5 to 6 years and that this was a problem, and that the government should do something to address this problem. I think that everyone sitting in the National Assembly is divided between the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power. And I also assess that it is right for the judicial system to be organised differently and that the proceedings are proceeding differently, but I do not know whether we are able to make another reform of the judicial system, which was carried out 11 years ago, apparently failed. But here in this area where we can do something, I think it is right that we take this matter and that we conclude these procedures at the most rational time. For this reason, I believe that the proposals that move this issue away and that speak of procedures going further are bad cases. Let's say this proposal on compensation for dwellings where tenants live, speaking roughly in such a way that the owner, whose property was stolen literally in 1948 or a little later, is now paid the market value of this property by the State and the tenant gets the right to ransom under the Jazbinšk Law, we are in 2008, and the Jazbinšk law ended in 1993. And where are all those who did not have the opportunity to live in apartments to buy them under the Law of Jasbin? There are quite a few of us. Why, then, do we not have this similar right to those who are supposed to be saved here? That's why I'm saying not to do any more wrongs! You wanted to do something similar with the Slovenian steel industry, where you promised people 100,000 tolars, you knew it wasn't worth 10,000 tolars at the time, but now you wanted to cover this difference with some quasi replacement privatisation. We can't do it that way, we can't do it that way anymore! This could have been done before 1990, but it was bad and the consequences of the wrong decisions at the time are being paid by us and obviously there will be others behind us. However, let's get used to these mistakes, and let's do the procedures that were once initiated without unnecessary politicisation, because I don't see how some of the problems that some of the assets that have been created over the centuries are then returned in some way to those who have created it, but at the same time you are not disturbed by the various modern capitalists, some of whom are more financially powerful than the largest denationalisation beneficiary, who have received the assets in a few years - after 1990. I don't understand that. For this reason, I do not think that this amendment is appropriate, and I will not support it, because it is only delaying procedures that should be completed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u108	Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the question. What article are we in?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u110	Article 8, the amendment to Article 8 shall be spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u111	No, because I listened to Mr. Chernach, and I found that he was a little sleepy and that he was still talking about Articles 6a and 6b. Then I should be allowed to tell him that he was talking about things that were not at the moment, but that he did not, even though it was a topic, say anything about whether our second amendment or amendment to Article 6b was material, but not procedural, and for that reason could not yet be accepted. You have no argument for this, and this time you have run out of voice and empty talk. The same applies to Article 7. With regard to Article 8, which no one has spoken of so far, let me say that he has been tabled by the Zares Group of Members and supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Why? Because otherwise it would have been our belief that it would have been an unlawful asset. See, for example, where the land on which it is placed is the subject of return after the application of the ZDEN, an object without a building permit which has not been legalised, this land cannot be considered as a walled land within the meaning of Article 32(2). This means that the land is returned with the building and that although the building is illegally built, the person who built it can neither enforce nor legalize nor claim compensation - nothing. However, those who owned the land acquired land along with a building that could also be of disproportionately high value. And the proposal they are making in Zares based on the experience of land management is correct and says that whoever acquires such land with the facility must legalise the facility within a certain period of time. If an object legalises, it is obliged to settle the difference between the price of unpaved and walled land, which is logical because it has acquired land with a legalized facility which it will be able to benefit in the future. The price difference shall be determined by the judge if the object cannot be legalised and must be broken. And in this case, it gets a walled land, and it doesn't get used. I think that this is a problem that needs to be settled in the law, because in this case too, there will be evidence that the Government has decided to work for someone, that it is working today, with this law of new injustice, and no one cares, even though you - colleagues and colleagues from the coalition - are full of mouths, how you are against new injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Please, what do you want? Report? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Well, Mr Potts, I did not point out that you also spoke about articles that are not open at 6a and 6b. So I don't see any particular need for you to warn me if I'm talking in one article about the things that are related to the amendment in that article. I just said it in a broader context. With regard to Article 6b, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which you mention, however, this provision you are proposing is just as procedural or material as you read the provision in the law, which speaks of the fact that if two people cannot agree to decide it in the 1960s. [[...]] That's when you said [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you very much. 6.a and 6.b are, of course, still open, despite the fact that any of these are "not fit" and are in the review of the amendments tabled to the amended proposal for a law on the completion of denationalisation procedures. Of course, the Secretary of the National Assembly prepared such a one, and that is the case. As for the amendment to Article 8, it is precisely that we are careful, careful and fair to the consumption of taxpayer money and that we are no longer returning as necessary. Therefore, those opinions that have been heard several times this morning in this Chamber, that denationalisation needs to be completed quickly, should cost as much as it wants - on the contrary! The guilt caused by someone else will also be paid by my children and grandchildren, and it is therefore necessary to be particularly careful and careful to return to such stories as referred to in Article 8. For example, a village community, a municipality, or a utility on a land in distress because of the drought, the thirst of the population, built a water catchment and a water reservoir. Since this was built in black, as in this country, and this was undoubtedly needed in public and in public interest, we will now return the agricultural land to someone with a water cover or a water reservoir, and he will then negotiate with the local community, with a commune or a water committee, how to survive as much as possible for this water or for this facility. It is right, if it comes back in nature, to take all the ways to legalize, not to demolish, because there is little private or public money invested in them, but if someone has received more, better than he has been deprived of, in such cases, that difference of community, state or people should also be paid. The baton shall be, as in the case of denationalisation, as well as in the case of return for all equally hard and equally long. We are happy to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or no later than 10 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE FREE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LAW, IN THE FIELD OF THE Regular Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State. Sorry, you changed your mind. Mr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Member and Members of the National Assembly. The Free Legal Aid Act was first adopted in 2001 and 2004 in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union. In 2006, the Court of Auditors concluded in its audit report that the implementation of the free legal aid scheme was rather complex and flawed and that the law needed to be amended. Once again, it would be necessary to determine to whom the free legal aid is intended, to lay down the criteria for granting the first legal advice and to terminate the offer of the latter in the courts. The Court of Auditors further proposed that free legal aid be financed from the budget of individual courts and that a single record be established. At the same time, it also highlighted the alarming growth of cases for which free legal aid is granted. from 557 in 2001 to 11.862 in 2006. And statistics show even higher growth. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a new amendment to the Law on free legal aid, which brings some essential news, taking into account the Court's audit report. These are in particular: the harmonisation of the conditions for free legal aid through social transfers, the establishment of a new censorship and the addition of provisions following the determination of the income and property situation of applicants. Since free legal aid is intended for the socially weaker, the condition for granting it must be harmonised with the conditions for other social transfers received by those persons. To this end, the amendment has harmonised the provisions on income determination with the provisions of the Social Protection Act. The price for obtaining free legal aid is now no longer linked to the minimum wage, that is EUR 379 net, but to a 2-fold minimum income. The minimum income is EUR 205 and 57 cents and the double is EUR 411 after this calculation. The data is for last year. The censorship is therefore increasing by €32. The determination of the new censorship thus not only extends the range of beneficiaries but also eliminates the unequal treatment of applicants, as minimum wages were sometimes considered gross and, in some cases, as net wages. The law, for the first time, stipulates that the first legal advice must be met because in the past it has been often misused, as it has also been used by citizens with sufficient resources. The novel also removes the offer of first legal advice in the services for free legal assistance in the courts, since the quality of offering such advice was questionable there, since it was often offered in practice by trainees who are without real experience and whose service is primarily assistance to judges in the courts. Free legal aid shall be financed under the amendment of the law in the same way as the other tasks of the court. This method of financing was introduced with the aim of decommissioning the Supreme Court, achieving greater responsibility for the management of funds and eliminating unnecessary administrative work. While the District Courts will maintain each of their records on the types and forms of funds used, the Central Register will be maintained by the Supreme Court. This has been consolidated by the law since the Supreme Court had previously led the central record of domestic disputes and the central record of domestic cross-border and foreign cross-border disputes was maintained by the Ministry of Justice. However, this was not in electronic form and therefore they do not achieve the purposes for which it is guided. We are now introducing electronic recording of free legal aid. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The applicant also chooses the free legal aid provider, and the recovery procedure for the unduly obtained legal aid takes place through the new executive authorities. [[...]] Let me mention the departure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u120	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members. At its 41st regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on free legal assistance. First, the representative of the Ministry of Justice presented an additional explanation to the proposal for a law, stating that, during the implementation of the law, the procedure for granting free legal aid has proved to be complex, insufficient and burdensome in the work of the courts, as the Court of Auditors also found. In the 2006 audit report, the Court of Auditors drew attention to the increasing number of cases of free legal aid. It therefore proposed that the law lay down the criteria for granting first legal advice, the abolition of the offer of first legal advice in the courts, the financing from the budget of the individual courts which implement legal assistance free of charge, i.e. from the budget of the district courts and not from the budget of the Supreme Court, as set out in the regulation in force, and the establishment of a single register of applicants entitled to free legal assistance. He went on to explain all the major changes that the new law brings. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that most of their comments to each article were taken into account by amendments to the four groups of Members and additional proposals for amendments to the Committee. It further drew attention to some open issues of a legal system nature. In the debate, the members of the Committee drew attention to the problem of non-conformity of explanation with the content of the articles of the draft law, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. The applicant was asked whether the proposal for a law was in line with Directive 2002/8, which lays down minimum common rules on the provision of free legal assistance in cases where one of the parties in the dispute resides in one of the Member States and the court of another Member State is in charge. The amendments of the Group of Social Democrats were specifically presented in the debate on individual amendments. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the proposer responded to the concerns and proposals of the members of the committee. He explained the reasons why there was a discrepancy between the reasoning and the content of the articles of the bill. It also ensured that the law is already in line with Directive 2002/8. In this regard, the Court of Auditors has also found that the law sets even higher standards than this Directive requires. With regard to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service concerning the abolition of the system of judicial enforcement, it was clarified that they had decided on the basis of warnings from the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Court on the ineffectiveness of the current method of enforcement. With regard to comments on the issue of the substantive conditions for granting free legal aid in the event that the applicant enforces an infringement of the right to a trial without undue delay, it was clarified that the novel specifies the substantive conditions and lays down them cumulatively and no longer alternatively. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups, but did not adopt the amendments of the SD Group of Members. As its amendment to Article 8, which was an amendment to the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and amendments to Articles 10, 20 and 39, respectively. All the amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented by colleague Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u123	Thank you very much. In his introduction, the Minister presented a part of history. He presented the reasons given by the Ministry for proposing amendments and additions to this law, and he also presented some of the solutions for which we believe that our support can be obtained in the DeSUS Group. Therefore, the position of the DeSUS Group is a position of support for the main part of the solutions proposed. However, later on, I will also say some of the concerns about some of the Committee's already expressed doubts as to whether things are best handled or not. There is no doubt that such a law is necessary in our case, since it is constitutional in the sense that it ensures a greater presence of the rule of law and also ensures what the social state normally says. At least for those who would otherwise not have guaranteed legal protection because the costs for them may be too great, this can be very important, but we have seen from statistics that many who are not otherwise threatened with such legal protection could not afford, could exploit legal loopholes in this law and also abuse the law itself. We estimate that statistics are such that some questions are asked. The question, for example, is how can it actually be that the number of these applications and the free legal aid provided have increased so enormously, since it is multiples, it is not a few percent in a given year. Even more interesting or questionable is how the cost increased with the multiple of this multiple. He did not explain how it is so exponentially raised, otherwise in the last year this has calmed somewhat - the need for free legal aid - and there are no adequate analytical reports on why this legal aid has been so expensive for the country in the last period. Statistics also say that the country is ineffective when it claims the reimbursement of eligible costs. In fact, those justified by it, not by those who caused them. And it is not clear how acceptable it is for more than 10% of the cases of free legal aid to be carried out without an excuse being found for this. In other words, we believe that the naked data are those who say that something needs to be changed and that perhaps something is holding on to the fact that in fact there has been a monitoring of free legal assistance for implementation - that is, this institution - too poor monitoring, that there has been relatively poor supervision by the Ministry of Justice and Courts and that in this area there is probably something that needs to be rectified in this regard. We do not argue with certain solutions that we consider to be good, but we consider it worth looking back briefly at those comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The law enforcement service had a lot of comments. Again, more than is good for the drafting of such laws, which have to a large extent been taken into account. We estimate that it is right that the Law-Legislative Service has once again warned about something that has been used in the National Assembly in the past to marginalise the explanation of the individual article, as if it were some unnecessary pendant, some unnecessary appendix, which does not speak about the procedure and not about the material content of the law. They warn us that's not the case. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that this is very important and I hope that this will be taken more into account in the future than it has been so far. [[...]] Otherwise, we consider that there has been a deliberate warning regarding compulsory mediation and that it is wrong to refer once again to the resolution of a weakness in a law that is only in the process and which is not known whether it will be adopted exactly as it was proposed or not. Otherwise, since the bill eliminates certain identified weaknesses and provides legal certainty for those who are socially disadvantaged and who cannot afford such security on their own because they do not allow unreasonable complaints or complaints, we support this amendment and supplementation, and we want the Ministry and Courts to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u124	My friend Rezman [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u125	more closely monitored implementation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you very much. My colleague, Srečko Friend, will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There are few of us in this room today. I don't know if lunch is so good again. The amendments to the Law on free legal aid are intended to compensate the system of judicial enforcement by means of a system of tax enforcement, which the Slovenian National Party considers to be good. The law is intended to be amended by providing funding for legal aid through the budgets of the competent courts. It is also true that taking into account the Court of Auditors’ findings, this is somehow necessary, because the legal aid procedure has sometimes been too weak and the fact is that the Court of Auditors also draws attention to this in its 2006 report. The Central Electronic Record for the whole of Slovenia is to be maintained by the Supreme Court, although I personally have been disturbed by the fact that the supervision of the exercise of free legal aid is essentially carried out by a commission appointed by the majority of the ministers themselves. The Commission shall consist of five members, the President of the Commission shall be appointed by the Minister, so that the other members may also be appointed by the Supreme Court in a minority somewhere. And this may be lacking somewhere, because the Minister is only a person who is in the performance of the current duty, but not a person who would have a whole branch in his hands, an independent branch of power. This is a court of law. Surely the principles and objectives pursued by law must be welcomed. These are principles of rationality, efficiency and equality. However, when we talk about these matters, I cannot help but overlook the fact that the state has already done a great job of ensuring that when citizens are obliged to pick up what is to be collected. We have done nothing to ensure that we have financial discipline and that, when businesses are in fact, or individuals, to a large extent also owe to the State, they themselves are not at fault because they have not received payment for a simple reason, the State will already do so by means of enforcement. It is said that a somewhat delayed reaction to free legal aid, which is good and needs to be welcomed, but many legal persons, many companies have also been bankrupt because they did good work, but because there was no adequate financial discipline and appropriate legal regulation in ensuring their rights, they also had to close their programmes, their workshops and workers. Even more so in the Slovenian National Party, we are pleased that you are also looking at the lowest layer, this is a socially endangered layer, so that the condition for obtaining free legal aid is linked to the minimum wage or double salary. This is positive, this is good, especially if we take into account the fact that there are more and more citizens who do not reach a minimum wage or employers do not pay them in many cases in giro accounts because there are other withdrawals on payment sheets. Perhaps this law brings us a little closer to the rule of law, which is also very macho and corrects its budget balances, corrects its picture for Europe and the world at the expense of the poor. We may also receive more trials on this account, but I believe that there will be fewer international hearings in some way, because there are too many citizens and citizens who no longer believe in our judiciary and seek legal assistance in international courts. This law will be supported unanimously by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Boztjan Zagorac will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! There's no law in front of us. The law must be read well, and amendments tabled before we can make any decisions about it. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members called Lipa, there is a question that we ask ourselves when you read the explanation of the law, which is intended for free legal aid or who has been given free legal assistance so far. Free legal aid was intended for the people, and I will be very frank with those who could not afford a good lawyer to represent them in court. And when some wonder why the number of people who benefit from free legal aid is increasing, ask yourself what else is growing in this country. Poverty is growing, people are growing who can no longer afford a good lawyer, and the use of the free legal aid institute is increasing. It is very well - intentioned to talk about how some take advantage of it. I agree with myself that some people take advantage of the free legal aid institute and prove themselves to be people who can't afford it, even though they have enough resources. But the same thing happens to us in kindergarten. That's where the same story happens, and we didn't start with any such law. And these abuses will occur no matter what law we adopt. Since the Court of Auditors has warned that these claims are increasing, I have already told you why they are increasing. Not just based on abuse. Let us also be a little, and let us turn to the other side of the marriage because people are increasingly benefiting from the fact that they cannot afford a good lawyer themselves. And what should we ensure? In the introduction, the Minister said that more or less trainees were doing this work. Why, if Slovenia is a legal country, should we not also provide a decent lawyer with free legal aid? I don't take it for granted that the work of the courts has increased because someone has abused this institute. What about the court? The Court is an institution, a working organisation. As far as the lawsuit is concerned, there's so much work to be done. And to say that someone is overburdened and other people who are employed in this country must do their job properly. [[....]] And the same goes for the courts. Don't say, "We have too much work to do because free legal aid in our country is arranged as it is arranged." This is one of the reasons that we cannot accept in the Group of Non-Aligned Members called Lipa. Everyone do as much work as they have to do. Speaking of Slovenians, we're famous for wanting to sue. Yeah, maybe that's one of our qualities. But even if you wanted to play football, you wouldn't want to increase the number of football stadiums. Courts are an institution where work needs to be done. The thing that bothers me. According to the Court of Auditors, only 20% of the funds recovered were unduly obtained. Where's it creaking? There's a scrapbook at the office that's supposed to do this recovery. Nothing in this term has been passed by us in the law on enforcement and insurance. However, we note that none of the changes have yet produced fruit and that we have recovered only 20% of the unjustifiable free legal aid. But we're still hoping to write or the government hopes to write that this is huge. If this is huge, the result of recovery must be different. On the basis of the people who exploit the Institute of Free Legal Assistance and we agree in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that several of them, on the basis of one sinner, cannot suffer the entire social structure or the entire structure of users of free legal aid. That's not right. And I must say that, as far as the support or non-support of the law is concerned, we will certainly develop a very concrete and correct debate when we talk about the amendments and only after the amendments have been adopted will we decide whether or not to support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The practice of this law since 2001 has shown us, as well as in many other more developed, richer countries, that this free legal aid is necessary and appropriate. Despite many social measures and all economic and economic achievements affecting the well-being of citizens and citizens, there is still a social weakness in society, one that is in a truly poor social situation. Some still have low incomes, some have wealth that is sufficient for them to survive or to live a decent life or not. It is our belief that because of such a situation, they must not be compromised as far as their legal security is concerned. They must not be in any worse position if they are not themselves legal professionals if they do not themselves know the field and cannot take care of themselves, but even less if their financial or material situation does not allow them to seek such assistance from those who are qualified to do so because such assistance is usually not cheap. We therefore support the concept of free legal aid in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. During the implementation of the current law, procedures have proved to be very complex and also lacking. However, it is also important to note that the number of these free legal aids is increasing. Over the last five years, the number of these aids has increased by more than 20 times. And in 2006 we were already close to the number 12,000. In this crowd of users of these aids are certainly also those who have not received such aid for their purpose because they are not in this poor material or social situation. However, in order to change something in existing legislation, the Court of Auditors has also pointed out that it has proposed some amendments and improvements to this current law. The law or amendments under consideration follow the guidance of the Court of Auditors. The law specifies the criteria for granting the first legal advice, which is important, the beneficiary will be able to choose the person himself, saying that he will choose the one who trusts him. A uniform treatment of all applicants is ensured, and it is also ensured that those who are socially weak will receive the aid, and those who are in fact intended to receive it. The law itself brings some other solutions, which, in our view, represent an improvement in the current regime and reduce the possibility of abuse, so we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u132	Thank you very much. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! As we understand, the law follows two fundamental objectives: to regulate or introduce the verification of property also in the first, so far free, legal advice and, secondly, the procedure, including the electronic collection of data on the property situation of applicants in one place at the free legal aid authorities in the court, which is intended to simplify the fact-finding procedure, also simplifies the work of the courts and also the smaller obligations of applicants for legal assistance. In the opinion of the applicant, the main reason for the changes is that there is a potential for abuse, which has so far also been in practice in relation to the various assets situation, an ever-increasing volume of aid, which, at the time of the first legal advice, was present, increased costs of the State for this purpose, and a complex process, which imposed a lot of work on the free legal aid authorities. With the proposal of the law or with these objectives, the applicant seeks to reduce the costs and scope of the work of the courts in order to provide free legal aid. In principle, such goals are difficult to object to. But our view is that these goals in the content of the law are not consistently established. We will not assess the eligibility of all proposed solutions, especially the new stricter censorship mentioned by Mr Minister, who will make free legal aid impossible for many applicants and, in particular, the first free legal advice already available, and thus can significantly undermine the potential of a wide range of people to successfully exercise their rights and legal certainty. Social Democrats would not put any unnecessary burden on the country's costs in the first place in ensuring legal security and rights. The government is talking about bringing about 40,000 euros in annual savings in the bill. This seems disproportionate to the fact that perhaps a wide range of people would lose their first legal advice on a free basis. This also seems to us that the basic objective of the law, the reduction of burdens and costs, is not sufficiently acceptable and justifiable to us for change. Not at all because the objectives of the complexity of the procedure and its simplification are further complicated later by the fact that the free legal aid authorities in the future will also have to identify the property situation for the first legal advice, which will, in view of the scale so far, when there were approximately 15,000 such procedures together, mean that they will have to have 15,000 asset identification procedures and issue 15,000 decisions. We highly doubt that one decision and work on it will cost only cca. 3 euros, so that the actual decision, which is supposed to be a relief, for the more expensive country, will be worse for applicants for free legal aid. We don't think this is a good place for marriage. Thus, the solutions in the marriage will not have the effects it foretells. There will be no decommissioning of the work of the free legal aid authorities, as they will be burdened again by identifying the property situation. The new work to determine the fulfilment of the income conditions for the first free legal advice will cost us more than the savings announced by the Government, according to our assessment. The only real impact of the proposed novel will therefore, for the first time, be the increased work of the courts, and secondly, the narrowing of the circle of beneficiaries to free legal aid, which is an even greater inequality of citizens and citizens against the law and making it more difficult to access adequate legal protection. Therefore, without the adoption of our amendments, which at least partially neutralize the consequences of the law, the proposed law for Members and Members of the Social Democrats is not acceptable, so we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u135	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Chairman! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the law as proposed, unless the amendments are adopted, of course, we will not support it. We are well aware that the law on free legal aid, as it is, certainly has its shortcomings, and it would be good to adapt to the current situation, including, say, this surge of requests for free legal assistance. But this issue also speaks of the fact that there is some decomposition of the rule of law, that people so much need and demand legal aid, including free legal aid. This suggests that in these years legislation has started to change so that it is somehow not a protector of citizens' rights, but reminds them that they live in a criminal world. And if there is no sense that these injustices are too small, then new ones are added. You have previously discussed one such law, which will once again trigger a whole series of dominoes that will fall, and people will ask for legal aid, as well as free legal aid. If we look at the fast law proposed at this time, it is said that the law on amendments and additions to the law on free legal aid will have to be annexed to the requested annexes, statements, evidence which the court will then have to obtain from the official records. Then, in a few days, the court or the professional service, on average, will have to judge the eligibility of the first legal advice on the basis of all the evidence accompanying and obtained from the official records. The Court will then, on the basis of and on the proposal of the professional service, issue a decision and a notice that the person is entitled to legal advice. And then the person with this issued guide will go to the first legal advice provider who will offer her first legal aid. This has not been necessary so far, and even if the SD amendments were to be adopted, this would not be necessary. Therefore, it is very, very difficult to talk about simplifying procedures in this case. It's very hard to talk, and it's basically all just some kind of deception. But that's what we're used to with the proposals coming from the Ministry of Justice. Everything that comes from there actually complicates life in this country, and it is very complicated, and it poses a great danger of further entanglement. It's some kind of demolition before it's over. So when you can't do anything anymore, you start tearing down and destroying everything that exists or setting up a minefield, so that even those who come after you won't be able to use space freely. This is one of the important reasons why we will also be against this law, which comes on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice. There's something else. We also note that there are differences between the explanation and the content of the articles, and we are talking about the degree to which the laws are drawn up and the speed and the surface. I think there are two of them from the same department today. It is said that some stampede, everything after a quick procedure, everything is necessary, everything is as if the world were being put on a new path. No, you don't. Just go outside and you'll see that he's still fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Member Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u137	In the New Slovenia Group, we have a slightly different opinion, as expressed by the two previous Members. Let's do it in a row. The basic law on free legal aid was adopted in 2001 in a package of laws that were a condition for entry into the European Union. The law defines the concept and importance of free legal aid, lays down the beneficiaries, the granting procedure and the authorities implementing the aid. During the years of implementation of the law, it has been shown that the system itself for granting free legal aid is quite complex and imprecise. The Court of Auditors also drew attention to this in its report, which suggested that the law be amended. In particular, they cautioned that it should be examined who was to be eligible, who was to exercise free legal aid, and in what form and extent. The number of requirements from year to year is increasing. In recent years, the level of resources has increased dramatically. In fact, compared to 2005, last year's spending increased by 48%. But even more so is the case of the number of free aid when, at the beginning, there were 557 such cases six years ago, while in the last year there were 11862, there were 11,300 more cases than there were six years ago. In Novi Slovenija we support the changes, since only the amendments to the law are directed so that the conditions for first legal advice and further legal assistance are transparent and clear. The conditions to be met by recipients of social transfers will be simplified. I think it's best for these conditions to be unified somewhere. In particular, because in the past it has happened that the free legal aid institute has often been misused. We also agree that there are abuses in other areas. As mentioned earlier, they are kindergartens. In terms of efficiency and careful use of budgetary resources, it is also very important that the recovery of unduly obtained legal aid be transferred to the tax administration. Following the regulation so far, only around 20% of the funds have been recovered and tax recovery at its rate and proven efficiency will certainly be a better solution. In the New Slovenia Group, we would like to point out that the price for obtaining free legal aid does not increase and will still be available to the socially weaker class of citizens. The novelty also removes the uncertainty as to the determination of the applicant’s own income, his family, where net income is taken into account, but does not include other withdrawals such as credit. The main novelty is, of course, the abolition of the first legal advice in free legal aid services in the courts. The applicants will receive a guide in court, and then they will be able to choose for themselves a lawyer, notary or other person who will provide quality legal advice. This work is now carried out by judicial trainees or by junior court officials, who sometimes do not have enough experience to properly assess the situation and advise properly. Quality in first counseling is crucial. And it's only right that the parties make their own decisions. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] who will advise them most competently and who they can trust most. [[...]] In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed solutions are appropriate, so we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u139	Dear Vice President! Representatives of the Ministry, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Institute of Free Legal Aid is important and necessary, in particular in order to exercise the right to judicial protection in accordance with the principle of equality. The Institute is, of course, intended for those in such a social situation that they would not otherwise be able to guarantee this right. The statistics themselves show that there are more and more such citizens. The demand for free legal power is therefore increasing, but if we really want to help people or provide judicial protection, we need to address a number of shortcomings in the area of free legal aid. People argue that the procedure for granting free legal aid is complicated, that the control of eligibility for aid is ineffective, that applicants are not treated in the same way as the abuses of this institution and so on. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we estimate that it is wise to adopt this bill, as it also introduces substantive additions to the current system of regulation of free legal aid. The proposal will therefore address the irregularities and uncertainties that have occurred in practice in the area of the provision of free legal aid. We agree that the conditions for granting free legal aid are uniform with the conditions for granting other social transfers. It is necessary to avoid the senseless situations that occur in practice precisely because of the unanimity of the criteria for different social transfers. It is also known that so far some authorities have decided to grant free legal aid on the basis of gross income and others on the basis of net income. This is unacceptable and it is necessary to clearly determine what is right. The note makes it clear that revenue is to be taken into account at net level. The new censorship is also supposed to be set in net amount. In addition, the revision of the price would introduce consistency between the granting of monetary social assistance and free legal aid. In the SLS Group, we think it makes sense that the person receiving the financial social assistance receives automatically free legal aid, of course if he asks for it. The aim of free legal aid is, of course, to provide legal or judicial protection to those who cannot afford it. We do know, however, that free legal counsel was also beneficial to those who did not meet the conditions or who could provide it for themselves. This is not compatible with the purpose or purpose of offering free legal aid. It is an unjustified burden on operators of free legal aid and budgetary resources, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the novelty to give first legal advice in the context of free legal aid only when the applicant fulfils the conditions laid down in Chapter Three of the Law and that no one has the right to legal advice free of charge if he does not meet the conditions for the implementation of such aid. The gross estimates show that at least 12% of the initial legal advice should have been offered unjustifiably so far. However, statistics show that only about 20% of the funds recovered from the grant are unduly received. In the SLS Group from this point of view, we support the proposal to introduce a system of compulsory recovery by the tax authority under the law governing the compulsory recovery of taxes. We also believe that it is fair that applicants for unlawful legal aid can choose the provider of this aid, whom they themselves consider to be a qualitative one. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that free legal aid should not only be an institute on paper or something that will only satisfy international standards with its existence, but should be an effective and successful institution that will achieve its true purpose. The Novela will also address those shortcomings that have so far hampered the effectiveness of the free legal aid system, so we will support the Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments, of 26 February. I am pleased to inform you that the debate on related amendments will be held at the same time as Articles 6, 10 and 22, which are substantively linked. However, I ask all speakers to state before their debate what article they are going to discuss. I request an application for amendments to these articles. We'll repeat the application procedure. I repeat the application procedure. Here you go. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u141	Here you go. Thank you very much. Let me repeat once again that we have understood the Ministry's proposal in particular in order to introduce censorship in free legal aid even when it comes to first legal advice, which we accept. I'm not gonna say it with enthusiasm. I'm gonna say it as a real possibility. And second. In order to ensure that the burden on the work of the free legal aid service is lower than it has been so far. We accept that, too, but we believe and claim that this law does not guarantee. It does not provide because it assumes that a somewhat simplified procedure will now be necessary, where data will be made available through automatic processing, through access to different records, which is a question that always opens up dilemmas, or to what extent it is justified, but will nevertheless have to be provided with free legal assistance services in the courts for each to determine the situation and issue a decision on whether or not it fulfils the conditions. And such decisions will, according to our record from the Ministry's explanation, be as much as it has now found that such free legal advice may have been problematic, say, about 15 000. We have calculated that if there is indeed a savings of 40 000 euros, as stated, the Ministry will work for 3 euros for one decision. I just don't believe it. That's one point. So far, free legal aid has also been available to concessionaires. These were non-governmental organisations organised in Ljubljana and Maribor, which had graduated university lawyers with the judiciary, could also have some others, but at least a judicial or legal exam, and who were given the Ministry's power to provide free legal assistance. From now on they may also do so, but they cannot determine whether the person who comes to them for the first free legal aid meets the material censorship, the income censorship, and therefore must first send that person to the court, the court must issue a decision that the conditions are fulfilled or not. In the absence of such a decision, a complaint and an appropriate procedure may also be made against such a decision. These concessionaires, who have done this work so far, come into the possibility of providing free legal aid in the second stage. That doesn't seem particularly rational to us. Our proposal, in cooperation with these concessionaires, is that the first assessment of the fulfilment of the financial, income and material conditions of the applicant for free legal aid may also be carried out in the case of concessionaires. If the concessionaires, these centres for information legal aid, find that the material conditions are met, they may give the first free legal aid. When it is given, they shall send an appropriate finding and record with a special record to the free legal assistance service in the courts which may carry out checks and checks, whether the free legal advice has been duly given because the material conditions have been met. If this is not the case, a decision may be taken and a refund may be requested from the person who has adopted the first free legal aid. These are amendments related to Articles 6, 10 and 22 of the Law. They may be complicated, so I've made them very simple. In our opinion, in at least two-fifths of the cases of free legal aid, our amendments would burden the courts' work to determine the price of property and give concessionaires who would be granted the right by the Ministry of Justice to act as non-governmental organisations acting on a non-profit basis and having to meet the professional conditions for legal advice, this free legal aid may be provided and may be given first legal advice and censorship. At the same time, when these NGOs should make an appropriate report on how they have found to meet the censorship, they should also ensure adequate supervision and implement the objective pursued by the proposer, it is that first aid would not be given to a person who, according to their assets, does not deserve it or does not need it. We propose that these three amendments to Articles 6, 10 and 22 be supported as they are, in our opinion, directed towards the objective pursued by the Government: this is a simplification of the procedure and the introduction of censorship. For no reason do we see any reason to oppose this. Reverse. We are of the opinion that if this is not achieved, the real fundamental objective pursued by the Government with this law will not be enforceable, as the real desire for simplification will result in more work and more costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u142	Thank you very much. However, Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you very much. As has been heard a number of times today, the basic purpose of this free legal aid is to ensure legal certainty for those who are the weakest, socially less wealthy, because they alone cannot do so because of their condition. Therefore, it is also appropriate to identify who really is entitled to it. It is right to determine who is actually entitled, who belongs to that endangered class of citizens, citizens who simply are not in the same position as other citizens because of their poor situation. However, in order to avoid any abuse, it is, of course, necessary to obtain adequate information on the financial and property situation of the applicant. Of course, we are already running into a bunch of data that are purely personal. The applicant shall refer to data from official and public authorities, local authorities and holders of public authority and other persons of public law, from a register of banks in which the client has its accounts open and from the accounts of the holders maintained by the clearing company. So, this is a bunch of data that really relates to a specific person. The question is immediately asked whether everyone in Slovenia is really the ones who can obtain such data, who can ensure that these data will not go anywhere else. And this is where we run into this problem of personal data protection, which is what we stress in some other laws and cases. I think that in many cases it is less likely, but for a smaller number of personal data, we have a much higher level of concern. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, after some kind of in-depth discussion, including with regard to other problems, to the other dilemmas that arise in our society, in our country, we do not think that such an extension of these collecting powers, to compare these data to some private companies with concessions, is appropriate. It is true that the calculations show that at least in the first stage something could be saved, a few euros. But we need to ask ourselves how much it costs to protect personal data, how much the rule of law costs, even in many other areas, it could be calculated how much we could save. More than, I don't know, 10,000, 100,000 euros, much more. But some specific protection also has its price, and it is necessary to rent it, so despite the good intentions of this proposal, we will not support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that there is still a desire for discussion, I will first give the floor to the Secretary of State. Mr. Robert Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only explain that we oppose these amendments for a number of reasons, as we have already opposed them at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy. I'd like to explain for a moment. The fact is that the Court of Auditors has found that criteria also need to be clearly defined for the first legal advice. That is why we have also set social criteria for the first legal advice, but I would like to clarify what has been evident if the criteria are to be reduced. On the contrary, censorship is actually increasing, but it is increasing in this part to increase the range of potential beneficiaries. So far, the price has been 379 euros, according to the limit on which beneficiaries are entitled to free legal aid, and is now rising according to current data to 411 euros. So we need to make it clear that the range of potential beneficiaries is expanding, increasing. However, on the other hand, it is true, as it has been found, that the first legal advice is now subject to clear criteria. According to the law in force, there were no criteria for the first legal advice and anyone could have gone to the competent authority for free legal assistance or for the first legal advice or to the court on the first legal advice, irrespective of social status. So if I do a little caricatures, even Slovenian tycoons. Therefore, the amendment of the law has made it clear here that the purpose of free legal aid is to provide legal aid to a socially weaker layer, i.e. to socially weak citizens and citizens. As far as the obvious is concerned, there will be more procedures to bring 15,000 proceedings before the courts. This is some assessment based on current data on actual applicants for first legal advice and for free legal aid. Once again, the number of beneficiaries for the first legal advice will definitely be reduced now, as clearly defined criteria will now be set and each of the potential beneficiaries will already know whether or not they are eligible under the social criteria. As far as the procedure is concerned. Also on the basis of the Court of Auditors' findings, we have followed the Court of Auditors' findings, followed by monitoring and verification of compliance with the criteria. We have estimated that it is only reasonable, logical and also expected to be decided by the competent courts. It's eleven district courts. Eleven district courts will also have access to these very sensitive personal data on property censorship, and this is very important, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. But why? Only with a view to verifying compliance with the conditions. If you'll excuse me for a moment. The potential beneficiary will first go to the competent district court, will apply for free legal aid or for first legal advice, will complete a very simplified form. However, it will fulfil it under criminal and material liability that the data it provides in this form are true data on property, on assets in bank accounts, on assets or on shares, bonds and other securities, on movable property, on immovable property and so on, real and reliable. And it can be controlled and checked by an exclusively competent district court. This form will be fulfilled, the competent service will verify the fulfilment of the data and will be able to issue a decision immediately as to whether or not someone is entitled to it. Thus, one place will be used to verify compliance with the conditions, to issue a decision and to issue a contract to the beneficiary. Here I must point out that we are spreading the series of performers with the novel. We are now opening the market so that free legal aid can be offered by all lawyers. It is said that a party, a potential beneficiary, will have the right to choose any of the thousands of Slovenian lawyers to offer legal aid. Thus, we are expanding the range of operators and maintaining this possibility for authorised concessionaires of the Ministry to offer first legal advice if the potential beneficiary or the beneficiary decides to go to the contractor for first legal advice. I must therefore make it clear here that the procedure will be simple, transparent, transparent and in line with the objective of: offering first aid or offering free legal aid to those who, due to their weak social status, cannot afford a lawyer because of their weak social status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u146	Thank you very much. And I'm opening a new application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u147	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State. This notification of the level of censorship was useful. For I have understood my point without numbers from the text in which, on the page, I think, 4 or 5 of the government proposal, it says that this change is expected to narrow the circle of beneficiaries to free legal aid a little bit, and from this I understand that the price will also be stricter. I take this for granted as to what the censorship will be, and there is something that can be achieved here. In everything else, Mr Secretary of State, you may not be everyone, but you told me what I already know. However, it was useful because there are probably many of them, especially your coalition parties, who do not know this and do not read the texts, which is also true of Mr Hvauc. Because if you read the text, then you would understand that we are very clear in the explanation that we believe that you should come to the concessionaire by an individual who would have exactly what you said with material and criminal responsibility to make a statement and indicate the basic data from which to determine whether or not the material censorships are fulfilled. We do not expect or propose that concessionaires have access to databases that could interfere with personal data and possible abuses. We're not suggesting that. Whoever found this didn't read our text. Either the assessment that under material and criminal responsibility it is ensured that the censorship is fulfilled is sufficient or not, I allow this to be weighed and valued. I just don't think it's possible to say that persons who have received the Ministry's concession would not be trusted to receive the data honestly and that they would also be able to determine whether or not the material censorship is being fulfilled on the basis of fair data. From here on out, full control of the Ministry exists. And our desire is to facilitate the work. If there is no trust of the Ministry in this institution or organization acting on a non-profit basis to properly identify the data, then I take it for granted. But I don't think that's a good thing, because I don't know what the basis of the concession was. I believe that the proposal could be adopted, despite the fact that there may now be an expansion of the range of lawyers, although I say perhaps because the range of lawyers has now been relatively broad, in which the first free legal aid stakeholders may have been given an opinion. In addition, for all other forms of legal aid, except for the first free legal advice, the lawyer and in part the notary for certain transactions was the only one who was allowed to do the job. No one else. So I think that the problem exists if you have and will decide in the Government with arguments that I think do not hold, except the big word used by Mr Secretary, that this is smart, useful, fair and so forth, okay, different views, I hope that in some time we will determine whether this benefits the fulfilment of the basic function of free legal aid or not, whether this has resulted in a decommissioning of the work of free legal aid services or not. As far as I know, there is a heavy burden on this activity that has been complained about and suggested that certain solutions that would reduce their scope of work should be sought. I am very modest because I will not use such big words, I say that these solutions proposed by the Government will not significantly burden the services for free legal aid. As they will now have to, whether they are justified or not, Mr Secretary of State, everyone, including the tycoon, as you have said, which is funny, but also the tycoon will have to be checked by the Legal Aid Service and issued a decision that it is not entitled to first aid and other advice. And the tycoon will also have the right because we are the rule of law to sue and initiate proceedings. The number that we have listed, and we have quoted it from your bill, 15,000, we have rounded it down not to the top, is the number how many people have now turned to the first legal aid authorities, which was free. Perhaps now the payment will turn less under threat, then these tasks will be somewhat less. However, if you guarantee that no matter when you have access to the data, it will not cost the country more than 3 euros after one decision, then I must say that our judicial administration is truly extremely cheap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you very much. And the word is from Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Most of what I was going to say has already been said by my colleague Miran Potrč, in particular with regard to the comment made by Mr Marolt, State Secretary, on the previous debate. It is true to feel that the Ministry of Justice, as a proponent of these laws that we are considering today, is also in some kind of schizophrenic situation. On the one hand, it is proposed and advocated to relieve the courts and, on the other hand, it is considered that this free first advice would not be appropriate to be given by the concessionaire who has the concession for this activity, but that it is necessary to go to court again. However, we know that it is the first legal advice, if it is professional, if it is corrected, that in the final stage may also lead to a reduction in cases in the courts, thus also contributing to the unloading of the courts. It's up to you to decide what you're really and really up for. With regard to this law, you also referred to the calls made by the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors on the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice's views on how to act. This is very nice of you to support the implementation of these calls from the Court of Auditors, which we expect this Government to take very seriously the calls of the Court of Auditors in cases that may not suit it as they do in this place. And, of course, also your attitude towards the protection of personal data. Here you say, it would not suggest trusting concessionaires to give free legal aid, because it is very sensitive data, personal data, and we know that those who rely on being entitled to free legal aid must also count on that they must also, through the representation of their personal data, some personal data, have to justify their entitlement to such free legal assistance. And so it is quite different than in other cases, where you are very broad-minded in allowing interference in personal data, for example, also in relation to the law that we will deal with under the next item of the agenda, is said, the Law on Courts. This is how you explain yourself, Mr Secretary of State, you are very opposed. Clearly, it depends on what goal you are pursuing in a specific law, to whom you may want to grant privileges, to whom you may want to deprive in some way, and that is obviously also a very important reason for proposing some changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I did not consider the debate of the Secretary of State to be contradictory, but I thought it was very weighty, transparent, and from what was said in this debate, it seems to me that the answers to all the questions raised followed. But speaking of the privileges that could possibly arise, this amendment, which you have tabled, with respect to fellow Social Democrats, has been introduced. I think it is clear that free legal aid rights are enjoyed by those who are socially threatened, and we will probably all agree, from the initial stage to the end, both for the first legal advice and for everything else. And if so, then it is also appropriate that the court decide whether someone enjoys this right, but not perhaps the perpetrator himself of this free legal aid. And if this decision were extended to anyone else or, in particular, to the free legal aid provider himself, it would be his own interest to provide as many such services as possible, to decide for himself, which is probably not the purpose of our legislation. However, our legislation must allow competition to be created in this area, or better said that everyone who wants it and who is entitled to this free legal aid will choose the kind of assistance that he wants. So there is for him the widest range of those providers of such services, which he chooses from all possible, but not that it is just one, and it is the one who has decided on this right itself. From the point of view of the protection of personal data, it is also clear that enlargement looks at personal data, both at state institutions and at banks and so on, on the property condition that these powers are not extended. It seems to me that in our country, this right is available to too many entities. And this is where it wants to spread. I don't think it's right that the court is the only one who should have an insight into such personal data in this area. Therefore, the amendments aimed at this direction do not seem appropriate to me and I cannot support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I invite Member Mitjo Slavinac to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. It seems to me that free legal aid is a very important category in the judiciary, because it is crucial and important that the right must not depend on the material status of individuals and must at least be at the basic level, at least in principle, the same for all. Free legal aid in particular in cases of social weakness in some way ensures this. It is my view that free legal aid must be imposed in such a way as to be as effective, as less bureaucratic as possible and, of course, as accessible as possible to those who want it. I'd like to point out that they do. Because I'm sure those who can afford other legal aid will. By doing so, I do not intend to underestimate or be skeptical of the expertise of those who work in institutions that offer free legal assistance. Far from it. But other paths, objectively, also have better conditions and can therefore be more effective. I am sure that some of those who have been discussed before will certainly not interfere with free legal aid. If not, they also have more efficient ways and simpler and not least, to the extent that they can afford it, to the extent that they are so successful that they have raised their social status to that extent that they do not have time to look for other ways. From this point of view, from this point of view, it seems important that we leave the matter at our disposal for those who want such legal aid, not dealing with possible abuses, for this is simply not rational. Look, first aid. The first legal aid lasts on average, according to my information, 30 minutes and it costs 11 and half euros. Now this first legal aid will only be at the cost level, only at this particular cost level, as we have heard, complicated and priced for 3 euros. So for round 26% of all the money, so 26% of all that money, which was now really meant for this legal aid, will go into bureaucracy. Not to mention here the costs that the person will have: to get from one location to another and then back again. And more importantly, we do not take into account the possible damage caused by the delay in the case, and someone who is already hunting those complaining hands and any other, will simply lose out in court because of the deadlines in which something should be invested, and now it is likely that this is going to happen much, much less. If someone gets legal aid as soon as he gets here, it's easier, cheaper and more effective. And if we want to save something on this basis, if we want to save something with this additional bureaucracy, because we see that we are already 26% more expensive at the start, we need to take the view that at least 50% of the cheats are in order to have one quarter of the loot. And that doesn't seem rational to me, it certainly doesn't seem rational to me with all the bureaucracy I've mentioned before. Unless it's possible to open new jobs for lawyers, but I don't know if that's it. We can hire them differently and do what they have done so far - that is to say legal advice - and in this way often, even when they are turned off from the trial, in this way they are reducing the delay in the judiciary, because the right depends also on whether they reach you or not, and again, I would not like to stress that because of possible abuses then everyone else will suffer and the level of free legal aid will be lower and they will not have the opportunity to reach those who really want it. And not least, a large majority needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you very much. But the word has been given by the representative of Bosniak Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The good intentions lead us in the Group of Non-Aligned Members to support the amendment of the drafters. Dear Mr Secretary of State, when you mentioned the tycoons, we all laughed together. You don't think anyone like that would use free legal aid! Real law allows this, but I'll tell you, even in your government action on a clean shovel, which means very little in construction because a clean shovel means nothing, but I have to say that I haven't seen anyone who would use free legal aid. Both you and I have data, who and in which cases is using free legal aid: it is mostly family legal relations, various recoverys and compensation claims. It is not about disloyal acquisitions, it is not about large economic damages, it is about cases where people simply because of their own, I will say, the social situation cannot provide paid legal aid. And when we talk about first counsel, first counsel can often be the most important advice. This is a advice that, I will say, guides to how you will proceed or what can happen to you in the trial. And to lay down the criteria on this, and above all, the body that will decide who is entitled to this free legal aid seems very unrealistic at some point. Even if we censored, and you boasted before you mentioned the tycoons, who you probably know only who they are, 379 euros and 411 euros. I don't see no tycoons or typhoons here, no one who likes to be imitated by this government. They are people who earn so much, and they are not themselves guilty of earning so much. Maybe it's part of the injustice on this government to have that kind of income. Maybe, I don't know, just finding out. But according to the government's legislation, we must have someone in here who's wrong. Someone said it was personal data of a personal nature. But if we identify the financial assets of an individual who asks for free legal aid, in any case it is personal data, whether I am looking at a government proposal or looking at an amendment. However, one thing is true - the lawyer to whom I am going, not me, but someone who needs free legal aid, I will find, I will trust even my history, my reasons, whether I am guilty or not guilty. I'm going to trust him with everything, but I'm not going to be able to trust him at this point in time, because it's going to be determined by some authority appointed by the minister, but someone else is going to check my assets. But, you know, right now, I have to tell you that I trust my lawyer more than your minister. That's very fair. I believe that my lawyer will not abuse this information, but for your minister I will not put my hand in the fire, whether he will or not. And in this case, when you say it's an independent body, I think you're overreacting a little bit. He's not going to be independent, but he's going to be an independent authority, called a minister. The Minister is a dependent person; at least in this government it has turned out that all ministers are dependent on the mandate holder. And if an independent person is to be called an independent organ, I find that very hard to believe. He's going to name dependant people who will depend on him. And to whom should I now entrust my personal information, on the basis of which you will find that I am entitled or unjustifiable to free legal aid? All these things that Members of the ruling coalition are trying to do, as well as you, which is your duty, to oppose this amendment, seem very, very dependent, not independent. Therefore, once again, on behalf of independence, it seems to me that the amendment, as proposed by colleagues from the Social Democrats, is not controversial in any way, is more welcome and would only upgrade this free legal aid institution. And in the event of scrutiny, I think that if we accepted this amendment, we could only raise these 20% of the funds that were unduly obtained under free legal aid. The research might have come from 20 to 30, but that's a step forward, so you're going to pin it on me here. So far, this research, as I have already said in the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Lip, has been only 20%, despite all the legislation you are trying to present in the National Assembly. Once you accept some amendments as a healthy fact, as a welcome fact and free legal aid as a necessity in this country, because it happens that people simply no longer have, or a certain percentage of people who rise from day to day have no more resources to afford anything other than what you have written in your explanation, BPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Member Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! I myself understand the amendment of the Law on free legal aid, on the one hand, as a response to the Court of Auditors' findings when it found in the 2006 revision that the law was flawed and on the other hand due to an increasing number of requests for free legal aid. This raises the question whether it is right to receive free legal aid from those who are well - standing. I think that's a question worth asking. Free legal aid is an institution which is provided by the State on the one hand and paid from the budget of the District Courts and, on the other hand, the right to judicial protection is guaranteed after this novel part of the population, which is financially and socially weaker. And it seems very important to me that this is defined here in this sense. The novelty brings a higher income price than it has been, and extends the range of beneficiaries, it also sets up procedures. It seems important to me that the applicant has the opportunity to choose from a directory of lawyers and notaries, which is a wide palette and a very large choice, and on the other hand this also ensures a certain degree of security, since these persons must not only have university education and a state legal exam but must also meet certain legal conditions. Therefore, it does not seem reasonable for me to extend the circle of those who would offer free legal aid, which is why I do not support the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Member Drago Koren has the floor. I'm sorry, buddy. I didn't see the replica behind you. My friend Zagorac. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We'll open another circle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u159	I must stress once again that I am convinced that the law on free legal aid is a very important law and that in addressing the amendments to this law we must be very sensitive and sensitive to the fact that we are actually improving, simplifying, appreciating, and yet preventing abuse. Some debaters have already talked about knowing about abuses, but we do nothing to prevent these abuses. And I am confident that this amendment will also prevent certain abuses or prevent such abuses from occurring in the first place. If I have correctly understood these amendments to Articles 6 and 10, they mean that the right to free legal aid could be decided by the person who would also offer this assistance. I personally think that there is no need for all beneficiaries to do so, especially in view of the fact that all these broad ranges would have the possibility of accessing these personal data to be provided by those offering first aid. I'm going to say, it's like giving the sausage to keep the dog safe, but I don't think it's more of a joke than it really is, but why would they put the performers into some temptation to "impersonate" them also into business, to work, to offer as much legal aid as possible. As far as the burden of the courts is concerned, I do not see any possibility here, especially after the State Secretary's explanation. Thus, the party will provide the information itself, in the courts will only check from these official records to which they will have access, and issue a notice. The client will then choose the one she wants, the one she trusts to offer her this first legal aid. Afraid that thousands and thousands of decisions should be issued here, I don't see it here. Since I am confident that this new law will turn people away from abuse, it is said that the unjust would come for a legal aid guide. Even if, given that the cases are informed, the issue of such a decision, I will say, is the formality of electronic technology - for I say, I have not done any calculations - it will not cost the court even 3 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you very much. However, the Secretary of State has entered the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Allow me to reject immediately at the outset the statement made by the honourable Member of Mr Zagorec. The fact is that, according to our own government amendment to the Free Legal Aid Act, the Minister will not designate any authority to decide on the property situation, as previously mentioned. The fact is that following the amendment of the property law, it is said that the right to free legal aid will be determined by the competent service for free legal aid in the District Court. And the Minister of Justice neither employs judicial staff nor employs judges in the courts. Allow me, well, to explain this to you that this doubt or this observation is unfounded. However, the fact is that the Minister of Justice can grant a licence to exercise, is said to be for the exercise of the activity of free legal aid to the competent concessionaires, i.e. to carry out the first legal advice. And that's what the Justice Minister is responsible for. So we need to be here, please, really precise and clear. It was mentioned earlier that the courts would be more and more burdened. In some ways, courts will be burdened with checking that the conditions for first legal advice are met, that is true. On the other hand, the competent courts, the competent services for free legal aid, will be burdened, as they will no longer offer legal advice after the amendment of the law of the Court’s first legal advice. The first legal advice following the proposed amendment will therefore be offered by free legal aid providers, concessionaires and all Slovenian lawyers. So we have to be precise here. As far as some of these are concerned, we take responsibility for the first legal advice. We do not take any responsibility for the implementation of the first legal advice. However, the potential beneficiary will first have to determine whether it fulfils the conditions for first legal advice or for free legal advice in accordance with social criteria. As far as the Court of Auditors' views are concerned, we followed the Court of Auditors' position. With regard to the protection of personal data, we point out that, in terms of the protection of personal data, only authorised legal aid services in the competent courts should have access to such sensitive data. I reiterate that employment, the appointment of these persons, the organisation of these services is not entirely within the competence of the Minister of Justice. However, as regards the urgent first legal advice, as mentioned by Mr Slavinec, I would point out that in the amendment of the law it is clearly stated that, in urgent cases, it is said that when the short deadlines for either filing an action are either for counseling or for complaints or for any other legal remedy, the beneficiary or potential beneficiary may go to free legal aid without submitting a notice to the competent operator if it considers that this is absolutely necessary and, of course, within three days, it is necessary to submit an application to the competent authority. We assess, once again, that it is reasonable, clear and understandable here that those who want, who really want, who are justified and in a social situation and who are entitled to free legal aid, first go to a competent service, which they can immediately issue an appropriate decision, a suitable guide and immediately follow the first legal advice to the competent operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you very much. And I'm reopening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I wonder if the attention we give to this question is worth the trouble. However, it is worth my firm belief that in a very banal case, we show how unprepared this government and this coalition are for the most well-intentioned advice. Because that's all this is really about. It's not about any privileges. Whoever's saying this is talking nonsense. It is not about any extension of rights, and I am disappointed that Mrs Zupan has said this, which I deeply appreciate. We're not going to extend anyone's rights. The price will be what it is. It's just insulting to talk about giving a sausage to keep a dog safe. When the debate took place in your home work committee, which you are leading, these concessionaries told me that they had obtained a magnetogram because they were getting it and that they had read the debate and were disappointed with it. I don't know what they're going to say today when the president of the labour force dealing with this law qualified them to be one of the candidates for this solution. And the basic question that you want to understand or not, is just that it does not change, Mr Secretary of State, anything other than if, by chance, someone by mistake or purpose, because he has already received advice before this or legal service, does not go forward to the District Court for free legal assistance, but to the concessionaire, the matter of verifying his property status on the basis of a statement may not look into the data but also get the first legal advice and he does not need to be told by this concessionaire, excuse me, I cannot determine your censorship, please go to the district court first and then return from there with a decision or a guide to do so. That's all it is. And in a few cases that would happen, I don't know how many of them are going to happen, but I'm sure they're not that massive, so to expand the circle, we're making such terrible problems. I don't understand, it's out of my mind, unless this intelligence has to realize that, colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, you don't read and talk, because you have to explain what you think the government thinks or because it's government that doesn't allow it. Mr Marolt, if this is a lack of confidence in concessionaires, tell them that we do not trust concessionaires to do so. All right, I'll take note. The concessionaires who carry out this business will now find out. But to look for some big, sophisticated answers to such a very simple question, I must say, I really don't understand. So I will save some time for another proposal that we have and where I can see how your hair will come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u164	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, again. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State! When you explained to me what the minister was responsible for and why he wasn't and what he had no influence on, we both laughed a little when we looked at each other. So we know that there's no jurisdiction under the law, but we know what the story looks like in practice. Let's do this, please, because it's a life law. It's not about what the regulations say, it's about life and life and we both know in this situation what the minister has the power to do and what he doesn't have the power to do. One of the things I'm going to start is that unfortunately this country has come under this government so far that these free legal aids will require more and more people. Therefore, with the story of what one of my predecessors said to follow the instructions of the Court of Auditors, because there has been an increase in the number of users between 2001 and 2006, that is logical. The system, because this country, because in the last three years, not least this country has come so far that these users are as many as possible and they are also achieving this censorship. By extending the place of those responsible for determining this censorship, they would not do anything wrong. We would do more than just what you said yourself to track down those or exclude those in this framework that go beyond this censorship, but still get free legal aid. Also: Slovenia is a constitutional social state. Is it not the interest of this country that all citizens, as far as it would be - hypothetically I say, very hypothetically - a country so rich, have the GDP you represent here, I will offer, free of charge, first aid for first legal advice. We could have boasted at that time! Today, we are essentially adopting a law because we are looking for those who abuse this institution. But the same abuse happens in kindergartens where the Mercedes bring three children, and they don't pay anything. And there's no such legislation that this government has prepared. It's different there! That's where it can be tolerated! But here we have found, and I will say, on the basis of this, once again, on the basis of someone who exploits the system, the majority of users suffer from free legal aid. And that's not right. That's not right. With this amendment, I will only, say, sharpen at some point or allow someone else to reveal those against whom the government and the coalition are fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it in connection with Articles 6, 10 and 22? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. However, I am opening a debate in conjunction with Articles 13 and 14, which are also substantively linked. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u167	Thank you very much. In Articles 13, 14 and 25, we propose that concessionaires, regardless of how anyone looks at them, but the concession has given them the Ministry, allowing them, because they are university-graduate lawyers with a judicial examination which employees must have in order to provide this legal aid to enable them to carry out, in addition to the first legal advice, other forms of free legal assistance. To put it concretely, realizing that this is also representation in court. The law lays down many or more forms in addition to the free legal first legal advice of legal aid, and if the Government decides to do so, these forms may, of course, also be limited to concessionaires. It's just a suggestion that they're all that the law allows. This is an extension of content and in this regard the debate is acceptable and possible for us, and I can say that we believe that concessionaires cannot acquire such powers. Whether the government will be able to explain this or not, because the law allows for such counseling is another thing, but it can say that and we are well aware that it is an extension of rights. We argue, however, that in the context of this enlargement of competence, everything we propose is in line with government objectives. A part of the free legal aid bodies in the courts in connection with the first amendments would be burdened, and a circle of persons with concessions for all forms of legal aid would be extended, i.e. for representation. The choice of an authorised concessionaire would still have an applicant who could decide that it is a notary or a lawyer on the list or that it is a concessionary who has been awarded the concession by the government as a non-governmental organisation working on a non-profit basis and, in our opinion, which is very important for the party, a double work is eliminated. No one will convince me that it is wise for one person to offer the first legal advice paid now, which also directs someone to later conduct in legal proceedings, and that someone else has to reacquaint themselves with the person, with the subject, with possible legal channels, who, as a free first or as a first legal advice, could continue to perform representation. In the case of a lawyer, if the client, the applicant, decides for him, it will be possible. However, this is not possible in the context of concessional NGOs in the view of the defect. I'm not going to argue what was the attempt to say who would do the job better or less in quality, I don't know, it would depend on an individual, it would one day be a lawyer, it would one day be this graduate lawyer with a judicial exam. But surely it is not possible to say in advance that one will do better, the other worse, and I think it must not be and there can be no reason to disable them. If they receive the concession, they will have to meet the necessary conditions. It's possible to control work. It's possible to control financial conditions. And finally, according to the solutions so far, such a deal is cheaper for the country. Because you know of a solution that allows concessionaires to receive half the legal rate for their work. If they win in justice, there is no reason for those who lose the truth not to pay the full cost. And if he pays the full cost, half of the costs he paid to the state and half to the concessionaire. And that half that goes to the country could be used for other costs associated with free legal aid. Thus, this would be an additional burden for the State, with everything else that meets the conditions we believe, unless the Ministry alone trusts itself that it will exercise proper financial and substantive control over concessionaires. So, more simply, the proposals we make cannot be explained. I would like to ensure that they are not only well-intentioned but that they help the objectives proposed by the Government. Anything else I understand or not, I'll save for the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond briefly. The fact is, we don't accept this amendment. It is analogous to the same amendment, which has also been tabled on the Committee on Internal Policy, and I have already explained why it is not acceptable in our view. If you don't mind, well, you mentioned the quality of work. I would not comment on this here, on the quality of the work of Slovenian lawyers and lawyers or free legal aid providers. We estimate that the proposed enlargement, it is said that concessionaires, as you mentioned, would also represent NGOs or various legal centres in court proceedings, in our view, be inappropriate for a number of reasons. But I'd only mention two reasons. The fact is that the representation of the parties in judicial proceedings and the responsibility for representation in judicial and out-of-court proceedings clearly lays down both the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Notariat, where the responsibilities of lawyers are clearly defined, both disciplinary and compensatory. The fact is that lawyers and lawyers under the Law on Lawyers are obliged to carry out their legal profession conscientiously and responsible and are also disciplinaryly responsible for violations, irregularities and irregularities. In the event of a serious infringement, it may even lead to the termination of the profession or suspension of the profession or even to the deletion from the lawyer's directory. The same is true of notaries. So it's about legal level for lawyers and notaries being held accountable for their work, for their expertise. We must be aware, however, that the functioning of university-graduate lawyers with a legal examination is not regulated at any legal level in terms of disciplinary and compensation responsibilities. Here we must also pour ourselves pure wine to perform with these concessionaires, i.e. for the first legal advice and legal advice, work for them not only university-graduate lawyers, but also students of the Faculty of Law or graduates of the Faculty of Law, which can be seen even in their prospectuses, in their publications or in other ways. We therefore assess and, in this case, that when free legal aid is provided to the socially weak, it is necessary to provide assistance in the representation of the courts to genuinely represent this weak party in the judicial proceedings, it is said that persons who cannot afford an attorney or a lawyer at their own expense are obliged to ensure that they are genuinely professional and responsible and have a high-quality representation by their lawyers. However, according to the Law on Lawyers, lawyers are also disciplinaryly and indemnity responsible for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u170	Thank you very much. But the word has been given by the Member of the Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Your argument is valid and if you want to eliminate it, of course it can be solved. Maybe it's to claim insurance. Just as lawyers are insured and it is possible to protect the performance of this work. Otherwise, there is a problem with the first legal advice, since we both know that sometimes the first legal advice can be fatal. Because if the first step is delayed, the next step is not. In this case, this argument of yours is excusable, it's only halved. Because you say that there is nothing wrong with the first legal advice, it can also be a mistake or a less professional and responsible course. That's not what you said. That's the connection of existence. But in case of representation, that's not the case. I agree. Counseling is certainly an activity whose essential objective, purpose, content is representation before the courts and in other legal matters, because they are all. But as soon as we have allowed them to operate in the context of free legal aid, concessionaires can also be left to them. I think she'd be useful. Control would be possible. However, if, in our common opinion, it is necessary to protect responsibility, not their work, but their responsibility towards the parties and possible consequences, this could be settled through insurance, as legally required by lawyers. It could also be arranged at a lower altitude, because after all, we know that the customer who comes for free legal aid is the one who chooses. And he can choose a lawyer willing to come to the list or not - and we know that discussions about whether all lawyers would like to be on the list or not are also in the legal circles and that many among them would not want to be on that list, because they want to do business only by paying customers' visas. So the issues are considerable and the problem that you have warned me about, I take it for granted as one of the issues that, if you want to settle, you can also resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, time is at your disposal. Will you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, with the honourable Member I agree with you on compensation responsibility, this could be raised, but the problem is that disciplinary responsibility is not regulated. Lawyers have a disciplinary responsibility under the current Law on Lawyers, but this is not the case with applicants for free legal aid or these concessionaires. But I'd just like to explain one more thing. The fact is, as I mentioned earlier, the circle of performers is expanding, for now the client will be able to choose any of the lawyers to represent herself before the courts. So, I have over a thousand lawyers. As far as we are concerned, we are looking at systemicly, comprehensively, and we also hope and expect that as many issues as possible will be resolved in the context of the first legal advice, legal advice and as much as possible out-of-court mediation and other alternative means of out-of-court dispute resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Comrade Barovich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to advertise, but listening to all these stories about the law, where we want to talk about free legal aid, we're always talking about rights, duties, opportunities for lawyers, lawyers - and blah, blah, blah. Where is the man and the poor man who needs free legal aid? And it is the amendment to Article 13 and Article 14 that we are talking about, as far as I am aware of it, that says, "In the first sentence of Article 29, the word 'consultation' is replaced by the word 'help'." And here's the point -- we're talking about free legal aid, not about which lawyer, which lawyer, who's gonna send someone, who's gonna deserve something, who's not gonna deserve it. Yeah, I really don't understand anymore. I'm not the most brilliant, I'm not a doctor, but today we're only talking about the rights of lawyers, the rights of the Ministry of Justice, of internal affairs, I don't know what else, and I haven't actually heard anything about free legal aid. And if we're talking about the amendment to Article 13, let's say whether we're talking about counseling or aid; whether we're talking about free or we're talking about pay. 'Cause not the last time I'm gonna be, when you're, like, friends and friends, maybe sometimes looking for help, after all the debates I've just heard -- yeah, hell, I don't know where to go! Where am I supposed to go for help? I need help. If I have money, I'll pay it if I don't have it. Where should I go? Do you want me to go to one of the lawyers to send me to the other lawyer who's gonna send me to the administrative unit who's gonna send me to the third lawyer to send me back to the first lawyer? I mean, I'm sorry, I really don't understand these stories anymore! If we are talking about free legal aid, we are talking about this, we are talking about the amendment to Articles 13 and 14. Tell me what this means, whether we're going to talk about aid or whether we're going to talk about advice, who's paying it, whether it's free or not anymore - and let's end this story and end the waste of taxpayer money with explanations about lawyers, lawyers, rights, options, interns, not interns, but I don't know what else I've heard today. I want to know where the free legal aid is - it is or is not, what it is, where a person goes, what a person needs to ask. I really don't understand this anymore. We know who needs free legal help. Barovic is just not because he's still working at the National Council for the salary he has, and he deserves so much that he's just gonna have to pay his lawyer. But we know who needs it. But where should this man go? If this man listens to us today, he doesn't know what to do anymore. And please, colleagues and colleagues, the days are hard and long, let's not use the meetings of the National Assembly to start the election campaign, because the nation has decided one way or another. Let's tell people where to turn for free legal aid. And let's say the amendment is good or not. Whether we are talking, I ask again, about counseling or assistance, because that is a big difference. But if someone doesn't understand it, I can't help it either. And let's tell people, however, once again, where to turn for free legal aid, but not to seek first the information that it is entitled to free legal aid. And if it's not justified to calculate, I don't know what else - as we've heard, I know stories from the previous term when gentlemen drive with audios and kindergarten pays the congregation. Let us once make an order in this area! Please, colleagues and colleagues, we stick to the amendments to this law. In our opinion, these amendments are justified, we explain them very precisely, and we offer people free legal aid, but not to explain which lawyer, which lawyer, whose trainee, whose judicial exam is required. Do we have a debate on judges and their rights and their options, or do we have a debate on free legal aid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u176	As we say, we are in a number of amendments that are substantively linked. I also drew attention to this in both discussions. Please, if you'll be so kind. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to answer the question of Mr Barovic, the honourable Member. The matter is now quite clear. For free legal aid and for first legal advice, the client will first turn directly to one of the district courts - we have 11 district courts in the Republic of Slovenia - and also to specialised first-degree courts, i.e. competent labour courts and labour and social courts. 11 district courts, labour and social courts and other working courts in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts in the framework of the ordinary procedure. I am pleased to inform you that we have three hours and 50 minutes to discuss this item. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Joseph Školč requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Robert Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts introduces the following amendments and additions, or follows the following objectives. Firstly, courts are allowed to obtain the information they need in order to establish the facts concerning the conduct of proceedings, from official records, registries and public books, which are kept in computerised form. In this way, courts are allowed to operate more efficiently, move faster in individual cases, while at the same time the parties are burdened with proposing evidence and evidence, data contained in official records such as the Land Book or the Court Registry and, of course, other relevant official records. Another time. As is the case with the courts, the proposed amendments allow judicial experts to directly receive the information they need in order to draw up an expert opinion on a specific judicial procedure. Data may be obtained from official records and also from the private sector, for example from insurance undertakings in the event of a legal dispute, such as a traffic accident, and is appointed a judicial expert to assist in the resolution of a particular judicial dispute. This will ensure a higher speed of the proceedings, not least a lower burden on the individual judge as regards the acquisition of data, but, at the same time, - which is very important - the faster production of expert opinions in judicial proceedings. Such information, however, may only be obtained by judicial experts, judicial assessors on the basis of the accompanying order or decision of the court to draw up a specific expert opinion. In addition, it is possible for the parties to proceed with proceedings with a view to facilitating the exercise of their rights by the courts, on an official basis, to obtain, in respect of a judicial procedure, the necessary judgment of another court or of the same court in other judicial proceedings, as well as decisions of the administrative authorities to which the parties state and refer to them or to their case. Fourth time. Novela simplifies the procedure for appointing a new member of the Court of Justice from among the members of the Court of Justice if a member of the Court of Justice from among the types of judges ends his term of office prematurely. Fifth. In order to increase the effectiveness of the larger courts, the courts, which have more than 50 or more judges - that is, the largest Slovenian courts, which unfortunately also have the largest judicial backlog - are allowed to have either two or even three vice-presidents of the court, solely for the purpose of effective, quality management, management and management of those courts. The following provision refers to the fact that the Court of Justice and the Ministry of Justice are granted direct and free electronic access to the content of the computerised Court minutes, but only for statistical, research and analytical purposes, only for those purposes, also in accordance with the Law on Courts. And the next provision also redefines the area of courts and coordinates with the cadastral municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u181	Thank you so much and welcome! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts has quite a few good solutions, but certainly not all. There are many things that need to be done that have not yet happened. The fundamental objective would be to remedy judicial backlogs. I think that the simplest way to eliminate backlogs is to work harder to control this work and, of course, to impose more pressure on judges. After all, if we look at some Slovenian courts, we see that there is no one in court at nine, there are 12 different judges going to the market to pick up salads and turnips, and at two again there is no one in court. Such a way of working will certainly not help to remedy judicial failures, but of course not because there is actually no control. There's got to be another thing behind here. The fact is that this is a permanent mandate of judges and judges and prosecutors, which is completely at odds with one logic. The fact is, when someone sits on their chair, nothing can move him away from that chair, and he certainly does what he does. According to political preferences, by personal preference, by sexual preference, however, but very little in accordance with positive legislation and with what they are actually chosen to do: to judge and judge in the framework and in accordance with laws and law and with their beliefs, but which must be different from what is actually now. Of course, they also benefit from absolute immunity because if someone in Slovenia has absolute immunity, judges have it. The MPs don't have absolute immunity. We have immunity from criminal proceedings, not civil proceedings. Although you are telling the truth in the National Assembly, you can be calmly sued by a civil suit because you insulted him, and you get the lawsuit, as we know from a few cases in this National Assembly. This is also a mistake that this law amending the work of the courts - it did not bring about. There is certainly one very important issue here: taking into account the effectiveness of the work of judges and prosecutors. The Slovenian judiciary is determined by two constants. This is the rise of judicial backlogs and the failure to admit guilt. Slovenia has already received 200 per cent in the European Court of Justice - why? Because of the incompetence of our judges who did not judge at the right time whether they were wrong or not. Once the false trial charges are opened, who's to blame? Nobody. The taxpayers will pay from their pocket for judicial errors, which are increasing and which are also often the result, I would say, the non-salant conduct of the judiciary or the specific application of judicial proceedings and criminal law. Quite often, it is that our criminal law has been misused to this extent, and of course it only proves that the legislative authority actually has untouchable authority; there is no control over the judge and their errors have never been sanctioned. After all, everyone's judging in their own way, and when I once asked some state prosecutor, not the current one, but the previous one, how can such things happen, she said, "It's human to be wrong." I don't think that's the answer, and it's high time that one thing is already settled here. Before that, something had also been said about forensic experts. The question of judicial experts is not resolved; it is resolved functionally, but not substantively. Because it still applies to forensic experts - mainly from the old regime - that a person must be politically inoperable, but the knowledge he has does not matter. There are a number of cases that I would count, and then we can sit down with the gentlemen from the Ministry and we can process these matters in detail. There are a number of cases where incompetents and ignorant people judge things they don't even know. But they have a stamp, and there are forensic experts for everything. For all sorts of things, knowledge is about like a bad grader. But moving them so far hasn't given you anything. The bill states that it can also be assigned to judges through a court order. Well, that's what it was. We just got into the marriage what was going on. Certain gentlemen of politics from the previous term, I also know this in certain cases from their experience, have reached in the case of various judges that some file has been inserted entirely below, that some file has been inserted into one closet that has not opened for the next five years, as we have seen with Mr Railways, the prosecutor who had almost 400 different files loaded on one top of the other. And what was the sanction? Nothing! The Lord is absolved of all charges, and today he is doing a fine job as a lawyer. Beautiful! This is the Slovenian judiciary and the Ministry should make order here. A few things, a little bit of order is done with this law, but that's essentially not enough. It also says in here that it is being simplified, except for the procedure for appointing a new member in the Council of Justice. The right time and the right time, and this procedure must, in my view, be more in the hands of the Minister than in the hands of the judiciary. It's important to know that crows don't turn off their eyes. And the judicial branch of power holds - with each other, the "stango" hold and the end, no one can come along. They're the only ones who can touch them. There they freeze, stress, and are ready to strike, to make even greater backlogs in the courts, and they don't care. To find out the truth and justice in the courts, we can read it in some novels, in Slovenian courts there is little of it. If I do wrong to a judge or a judge, I apologize in advance, but my experience is very bad with Slovenian courts, very, very bad. In short, I could even say that in recent years after independence, everything has gone awry and no longer knows who is drinking and who is paying. As for the number of Vice-Presidents of the Courts, I agree with the Council of Justice here. I don't think it's necessary that we have more vice-presidents in the larger courts, because I don't think it's a second case here, but that some judges who already earn well will earn even more, no matter how much they work, how much they do, but what position they have. And the role of Vice-President of the Court brings a lot of euros to the basic salary. I agree, however, with the establishment of external departments or departments of certain courts, because there will certainly be a greater rationalisation of the proceedings and faster proceedings in judicial matters. In the Slovenian National Party, we had a lot of picurines about the judiciary all the time, and we still have them. It is certainly the one that is most in sight - not only us, but the entire Slovenian nation and all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - that ladies and gentlemen have a permanent mandate. Once they're jumping into a courtroom, there's no god to pull them down. They stay there, they judge, as they think, most happily after that max from the former Yugoslavia, "kadia judges, kadija sues" or vice versa, which means that the judge decides first, and then decides, and a lot of times is punished by the fact that when he gets there. A lot of times it happens not to take into account the documentation. You can't read a lot of papers, you don't understand laws, you don't understand individual laws, and that's terrible. Therefore, it is imperative that the permanent term of office of judges be abolished! The fact is, it's been done well once. After eight years, the Council of Justice considered the work of a judge or judge, found out what it was, valued the work - and then went on or went on. With us, when someone who comes, say, from a college, sits in a courtroom with no life experience, they judge people in life's affairs. And by the way, in a lot of cases, it's the wrong thing to do. Will the citizens of Slovenia have to go straight to Europe? I'm not in favour of solving our domestic affairs in this way. But I am not in favour of simply handling these matters as badly as they are now. Of course, we will support the marriage, for it brings something new, brings something good, but certainly not enough. And we expected that this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts would be more extensive, so that more changes would be more rigorous. And that the changes will come to the fingertips of those who are most guilty of this mess in the judicial system, that is to say, the judges as well as the prosecutors. Some also have concerns about access to data in court records or in court files. That's what's going on! It is interesting that Slovenian journalists get a conviction rather than a convict. It is interesting that Slovenian journalists get the charge in their hands rather than the defendant or defendant. And they publish it in newspapers, whether they're originals or not, but it's so indicative that they're going to condemn it in advance. That's usually the way it is. Of course, then it all comes together in the trial mills and what has happened now at Orion - that the prosecutor will find out, because it is true that some gentlemen have "fucked" the entire crowd of Slovenes and Slovenes, but let's close the case and clean up. I don't know how that's possible. I don't know how this is possible in a democratic country called Slovenia. That's fucking sad! I don't know what we're gonna do in this area. Some say that in this case it is a thorough intervention into the judicial branch of power. And I think it's a little too little intervention in the judicial branch of power. Judges are the only ones who can do whatever they want, lock someone up for 10 years, and even if in time they find out that they broke him, because of negligence, because of stupidity or on purpose, in this case they are not innocent or guilty. If it's an indemnity suit, it's on taxpayers, and the judge is untouchable. Because the only one in this universe Slovenia has absolute immunity. In short, it really is untouchable. Not MPs. The Members are nothing, the Members are sitting here, trying to do something, and whoever wants us can do it. And as a result of it all - a low rating by a Member, a low rating by the National Assembly and anyone else I know, a Vice-President or a Vice-President of a Court, I don't know where, in Upper Kungota, he has twice the salary of a Member. Almost. Maybe I'm paraphrasing a little, but we're here somewhere. But of course, the messenger has to listen, he has to work, he has to work, he has to work, and he has to set his left face, especially when you're once pinched on the right. I think it's high time we did something here in the field of justice. I expected the Minister of Justice to make these changes earlier. They are being invested now, which is better, on the principle of 'better late than never', but one would say that these changes should be more, more rigorous. The bill also provides that the election of half the members of the Council of Justice should take place every three years. Meaningful and clever, so that suddenly the complicated Council of Justice will not be replaced. For it is reasonable for new people to come to the world of justice every so long, and for them to be called unscathed men or unscathed men, as this term has been used many times in the courts. For it is questionable how certain groups or assemblies of judges operate in the courts. There are certain courts which are actually "familial" connected. Not only the courts between themselves and the judicial authorities, but even the judicial authorities with the prosecution authorities and with the legal authorities: the husband, the wife, the brother, the sister, the father, the aunt, the uncle, and I don't know what. Which whole clans or dynasties run certain segments of the Slovenian judiciary. It's got to be done, that's it. The end will not be done as long as we have a permanent judicial mandate in the Constitution. Here is the main error and here is the matter on which it is based entirely on which the political preference of the judges or any other preference of the judges is based, and on this it is also based on the possibility that the non-professional staff judge and decide in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, we will support the law, but I expected the changes to be significantly greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u182	The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will not support the proposal of the Law on the Courts in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, referred to as Lipa. We have more than enough reasons for that. The first thing I'd like to point out is that I won't speak from my own experience, I don't have experience with the court, I don't have experience with the courts, I don't have any forensic experts, I don't have family members in the courts and everything else. I will speak solely of the law, the content of the law, without offense to anyone who acts as a judicial branch of power in this country, but only of the content of the law. The law, as proposed, should somehow, I will say, replace, upgrade or accelerate the operation of the largest project that this government has designed in the resolution of judicial backlogs, that is, the implementation of the Lukend project. Lucenda somehow became the "story" of the previous government when she spoke of the Hercules project. We can compare both stories slowly, not one and the other with no effect, both taking a lot of money, tax money and no results. I simply do not believe or believe in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, referred to as Lipa, so that any law can accelerate the reduction of judicial backlogs in this country. It is interesting, however, that two points back, according to experts from this house, in one procedural law, which determined: in three months denationalisation must be completed. Why the government, the experts in this house, do not establish the same procedural law that will say: within three months we must not reduce the judicial backlogs, but abolish them. It's equally illusory for both of us. Let's be real! The complications occur both in denationalisation and in judicial backlogs, both of which are illusory. But two points back we could have adopted such a law because it was procedural, and here you are, the government doesn't hope to do it. If I go back to law school, but I can't get past comparing legislation with each other. In your previous marriage, you also spoke to anyone about the right to interfere with personal information. Here we grant the right to intervene in private information to the courts, experts and others. Why? That's my personal information. If they want to, they'll hear them if they want to, they'll find out, not electronically, that it will be published on the Internet in one way or another. Last but not least, he pays for public servants. We can compare them to this law. We've had a threat to judges, even a sentence, we've reduced their means of carrying out their duties, but I'll say, we've kept the pay after the balance sheet, which says that good judges - so it's said, working judges, we can't even all judges, this has to be stressed - they get the same salary as those who don't perform their functions. Is that fair? Do we have adequate control over the individual efficiency of the individual judge? I don't think so. Or in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, referred to as Lipa, we are sure that we do not. And here we should do something. This control over judges, and those workers, whether large or small courts, should be tightened. A permanent mandate, so sung by a permanent mandate by someone who doesn't care. A permanent mandate is a fact that should be abolished. We agree. But the first to sign under the legislation that has proposed this - and we believe that this would still be the only real effect that would encourage judges to do good work, because on the basis of good work they would get their next mandate - was my fellow Member, Mr Sašo Pece. The law before us also constitutes an even worse intervention in justice and a threat to the independent judiciary from the permanent term itself. Here the government wanted to obtain this law, although the minister and the advocates of the law would claim otherwise or claim that such a proposal came from the judicial types themselves, means an intervention in an independent judiciary. The Minister of Justice should not judge the qualifications of candidates for the office of President of the Court in respect of aspects which fall within the exclusive competence of the Council of Justice. Even less should I judge their, under the terms of "political appropriateness". It's all about this marriage. There is nothing in the Group of Non-Aligned Members called Lipa that this law would regulate. There's absolutely nothing wrong with it. It's making an even bigger mess. As far as the judicial backlog is concerned, or to return to the starting point, why this law was proposed. He was proposed to reduce the number of judicial backlogs in our country in order to follow the Lukend project. In February alone, Slovenia has received three lawsuits, compensation claims, by the Strasbourg Court of Justice for its lags. And the question is, how long have we had Lucando? We used to have Hercules, now we have Lucando. How long have we been building this Lukenda? Would it not be a slow time to give some results, on the basis that these results, which should have come when we introduced Lucando, are being paid by all taxpayers. I don't dare let myself down in the field of whether forensic experts are good people, or whether they're under the influence of the old system, so they have some experience, and I don't have them. The forensic experts are slowly people of my generation who have absolutely nothing with the previous system, I'm sure. I cannot say for myself that these are the abused people of the previous system, who have grief over one man who has the most experience with them in this house. I can't say for myself. However, I do hope, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members, that this law, as proposed, does not bring about anything and does not allow for the best work or reduction of judicial backlogs and not diminishing their competences or better work in this area. In view of the fact that the Minister can set up an external department under this law, in view of the organisation of district and district courts, it seems to me, or we think, in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, Lipa, totally inappropriate. Some even support that. But let me know when this minister decides to institute so-called family courts. I'd be more careful, I'd bring more, I'd also have an impact on the reduction of judicial backlogs, rather than on some of the external departments that the Minister will design. The law is simple, given how it is formed and on what basis it is made, it does not produce any but does not have any effect. We accept it because it is simply necessary to talk to a certain extent about judges, judicial failures and because this topic is becoming increasingly popular, depending on the moves or the "bums" the Government wants to make or wants to show in this country. Such a law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Republic of Lip cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, although I can say that this area will still not be perfectly regulated by this law. Much will have to be done in the future, complemented and regulated, including with regard to some of the statements that have already been made in this presentation of opinions today. This is another of the legislative changes that contributes to the greater efficiency of the courts, and it is right that we do so as soon as possible when and when it detects the need and opportunity to improve the efficiency of the courts. Therefore, it is not good to wait for the legislative procedure to appear again and then adopt everything at once. And let us also give all that was said for the arrangement of that time. Therefore, it is better to make changes as soon as possible, even if this happens repeatedly and gradually, and even if there is something left for the future. The judicial backlog in Slovenian courts is a major problem and anything that can help eliminate and reduce these is welcome and does not justify any delay. With the implementation of the proposed law, courts will be able to solve matters more quickly because they will have direct access to data from official records, as well as from various registers and public books, which will also be available to judicial experts. Also, obtaining the necessary judicial and administrative decisions under official responsibility for the needs of the parties to the proceedings will contribute to faster proceedings. Here I would also like to mention that, in my opinion or in our opinion, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members is not about personal data that would thus be directly obtained, but about those data resulting from judicial decisions, administrative decisions or public registers that are necessary for the process that is specifically being conducted. So, in our view, it is not personal data that there would be any danger of someone, including experts, having such personal data at their disposal. Therefore, the same purpose also introduces a change that allows for a more flexible allocation of cases to individual judges. By simplifying the procedure for appointing a alternate member of the Council in the event of early termination of the term of office, the democratic participation of judges in the Council of Justice shall in no way be undermined. By partially replacing the members of the Council of Justice every three years, the amendment allows the Council of Justice, contrary to the current regulation, when the Council is fully replaced every five years, so that this amendment will now ensure the continuity of the decision-making expertise. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party also believe that the possibility of appointing two or three vice-presidents in the larger courts will improve the management of these courts and we do not agree with those who believe that this is primarily a matter of increasing costs and there will be no effect. We believe that this way the administration of the courts will be better and more effective, especially for those larger courts. In short, due to the proposed amendments, which constitute improvements in the speed and efficiency of judicial proceedings, the amendment also provides organisational measures to improve the administration of the courts; therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the law under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you, too. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Ambassador Dar Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Today, in the National Assembly, we meet for the fourth time in this mandate with a proposal for a new Law on Courts. Finally, we decided on the amendment of this law six months ago. At that time, in order to comply with the Judicial Service Act, today, above all, the proposaler, due to the abolition of delays, i.e. due to the Lukend project, and to ensure the constitutional and Conventional right to a trial without undue delay. By the way, as early as July last year, the Lukenda project had already been adopted, and as early as July last year, the right to a trial was valid within a reasonable time limit. The experience of this mandate teaches us that the Ministry of Justice is very often proposing some amendments to the laws on the grounds that these are formal reasons for amending and harmonising the law, and then includes certain provisions in the proposed novels, which are very important or even fundamentally changing the concept of the law. This is particularly true in cases where the role of the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice vis-à-vis the judiciary, namely, the executive branch of the government, is being strengthened step by step. Even today, we are witnessing such intentions. However, some suggestions are such that there is no compelling justification for them. Such are the proposals concerning the acquisition of personal and other protected data, although it is logical, on the one hand, that such data are available to the courts as soon as possible and that adequate safeguards are lacking to prevent undue access to such data. This is, for example, a proposal which, like the Courts, would also allow judicial experts to directly obtain the information they need to draw up an expert opinion. For example, the law now provides that in the courts, in a particular legal area, cases are assigned to individual judges following the day-to-day procedure for the submission of the initial procedural act, taking into account the alphabetical order of the initial names of the judges. The proposer now proposes that the allocation of cases could also be made at a time-limit. With what delay, in what cases? In view of the looser formulations and even more looser explanations, it cannot be argued that there could not be any manipulation in relation to the allocation of cases. Our Constitution and all relevant international acts strongly stress the requirement that only a judge chosen by the rules pre-determined by law and by a court order may judge a particular case. This is the only way to ensure an independent and impartial trial. It is highly controversial to suggest that, on the basis of an assessment of the threat to the courts and judges, very rigorous measures could be introduced to address privacy by recording and storing electronic communications, video surveillance and the establishment of additional access controls in court. We do not argue that such measures would under no circumstances be necessary, but a balance should be struck between the level of security risk and the high degree of vulnerability to privacy. They are totally unacceptable to the proposal referred to in Article 12 of this legislative proposal, concerning the direct accessibility of the Court of Justice and the Ministry of Justice to the content of the computerised Court minutes for statistical, research and analytical purposes. It is clear from the recently adopted Crime Reduction Act that the broad Ministry of Justice is interpreting statistical, research and analytical purposes. We have not yet been convinced by the proposer that two or three vice-presidents of the court should be brought to justice in the larger courts. Also because of today's highly diversified network of district and district courts, we see no reason for the proposed provision that the Minister of Justice may, in the previous opinion of the President of the District Court, establish an external department or departments of this district court. We also agree with the opinion or with the individual warnings of the Council of Justice, so in the Group of Social Democrats we believe that this law can only be acceptable under the condition that its essential weaknesses are addressed in the next legislative procedure. So only in this case are the Social Democrats ready to support the amendment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u188	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u189	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the esteemed chairman! I find it rather repugnant to have to respond to the inflation of these proposals coming from the judiciary. In order, everyone is poorly prepared; look at what the texts are and what the responses of the Legislative and Legal Service are, whether it is a government matter or whether it is a parliamentary matter. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also believe that the proposed changes to the law are unacceptable, because they threaten the independence of the judiciary. We also note that the Minister is obviously not so interested in the problems of citizens, but he is not interested in judicial backlogs, but in particular how he will exercise his political influence on the work of judges, it is said that this is a direct intervention from one branch of government to another, and certainly in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we do not intend to participate or support such aspirations. If not, there is evidence that this law on the courts, if I am not mistaken now, has been changing for the fourth time in this mandate. So, in every way, you try to spin this thick and hurt it, sort of disable it. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the Minister of Justice must not judge the qualifications of candidates to serve as the President of the Court on aspects that are within the exclusive competence of the Council of Justice, even less, of course, to judge their political suitability, not only to judge, to determine which one it is. Surely there are other criteria for the administration of this function, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that the Presidents of the Courts are appointed by the Council of Justice, according to the previous opinion of the Minister of Justice. We would point out this at this point that such a solution was proposed years ago by the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court. And believe it or not, such a solution was also advocated by the minister of Sturm when he was still a constitutional judge, of course, at that time certainly from another position. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will make sure that the risk to citizens will be as low as possible and that it will not occur that in some way everyone's right to be tried by a legal judge chosen by pre-defined rules will be infringed. In fact, if new cases were not assigned to the judges as before, it is said, by some automatic order, which cannot be affected, of course, that the right would be violated, limited, and limited. The Minister wants to set up a new system, either by assigning new cases on the basis of a subjective assessment by the President of the Court or the Head of the Department. One of the reasons why the Law on Courts is now being amended again and, of course, referred to by the proposer is that judicial backlogs should be removed by 2010 within the framework of the so-called Lukend project, which has been scaring us here for three and a half years. However, judicial statistics for 2007 reveal that the momentum of the decline in judicial arrears has not changed significantly and that the objectives of this project will certainly not be achieved. So, what's the reason for this change now? The reason, of course, is very simple to prove that judicial backlogs are decreasing by "freezing" judicial statistics. We have also seen this in, say, health problems when, by not applying anymore for a specialist, for medical interventions, in some ways reduced the type. So they were kind of for the species, but there'll be, of course, some other trick. In general, there are a number of cases that lead us not to support this law, and our consideration is that the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts will not bring again anything new than what has been done so far, "copy pasta", it is said, triple, quadruple, have not been brought forward. Of course, the consequences of this may be even greater judicial backlogs or judicial backlogs where they have not been. Such a flickering within these proposals, proposed by the Ministry of Justice, certainly does not contribute to Slovenia being a clear, unequivocal rule of law and people knowing what they are dealing with. Before anything happens, there are new changes and, of course, everything, in fact, not only prevents things at this moment, but also writes them bad for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again a nice greeting to Members of Parliament and representatives of the Ministry of Justice. Our opinion will be different this time from that of the two predecessors. In Novi Slovenija, on the contrary, we feel that the Ministry, led by Minister Šturm, has made a significant contribution in this mandate in order to change matters in this important and sensitive area, such as the judiciary, and this has changed for the better. We are convinced that the Ministry is quite successful in regulating these matters as well. In particular, if we look at the material field of court work in recent years, there has been a lot of progress on the part of the courts. New premises will also be opened this year, which will certainly facilitate the work of the courts. If the situation is as demonstrated by the courts, then I am sure that these measures also contribute to making their work easier, better and more effective. We have also considered and put a lot of effort into improving judicial legislation in the National Assembly. Changes in the regulation of the work of the courts and other judicial authorities and improvements in substantive and procedural legislation have already produced certain fruits. Judges focus on the work of solving older and more difficult cases, which means significant progress in a number of court cases. Some courts have already reached 50% in last year's implementation of the so-called Lukend project, thus achieving the objective of ongoing problem-solving, which means that the number of pending cases is half as low as the number of cases received. Of course, apart from the number of cases resolved, the quality of judicial work is also important. The new law that we are considering today does not, in our opinion, bring about such major changes in order to dictate the general debate that we are discussing today. This amendment to the Law on Courts complements last year's novelism, which we adopted following an urgent procedure. This time, the changes focus on information, the allocation of work to judges, the appointment of members of the Council of Justice and the Vice-Presidents of the Courts. In the New Slovenia Group, we feel particularly important changes in terms of more efficient and faster business in individual cases. The Courts will be able to directly obtain data from records, registries and public books, which are kept in computerised form. This will certainly reduce the burden on judges to search for individual data. Similarly, experts who will be able to directly obtain the information they need in order to draw up expert opinions in relation to a specific judicial procedure shall be provided. Unnecessary duplication of work for the parties shall also be avoided. The courts themselves will have to obtain, on an official basis, the necessary judgments of the courts and decisions of the administrative authorities which are relevant to the decision in the specific case. The novelty shall simplify the appointment of a member of the Judicial Council if the member is suspended prematurely for the purpose of resigning or terminating the judicial function or having been appointed to another court. The alternate member shall become the candidate who would have been elected if he had not been elected a member of the Council of Justice who has terminated his term of office. Following a new proposal, the mandate is extended to 6 years in order to improve the functioning of the Council of Justice, and elections would be held every three years to ensure continuity. This would ensure the continuity of action and the expertise of the work of the Council of Justice. In order to ensure better functioning of the largest courts in the country, the composition of the judiciary is expanded with additional Vice-Presidents. The largest courts, which are also most burdensome, need better internal control to ensure quality management of work processes. The Law also touches the regulations of the natural judge. The Constitution, in the second paragraph of Article 23, provides that only judges who are chosen by rules may be tried in advance by law and by order. Law enforcement does not directly allow cases to be assigned at a time-limit, which would prevent priority handling of matters. For this reason, the provisions of the law which provide for the allocation of cases are amended in another way, by order of law. Areas of courts that are aligned with areas of the cadastral municipalities are also identified. The areas of the individual district of the court are linked to the area of the municipalities, since the areas of the municipalities are often changing, due to legal certainty it is more appropriate for the areas of the courts to be bound to the areas of the cadastral municipalities, which we know do not change so often. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal for the Law on Courts is appropriately continuing the movements in the field of justice that we have initiated in this mandate, and we will also support them this time. We are also aware of the fact that a number of changes will be needed to further improve matters in the field of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u193	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. When we think about the Slovenian courts and the justice system, we think about the backlogs. The constitutional right of everyone to decide on his rights and duties and the charges against him without undue delay and independently, impartially, is too often violated. When people seek justice in courts, they await a proposal. The multi-annual wait on the first application for a main hearing in legal matters, in particular before the District Court, was a long-term rule. Although things are moving for the better, we cannot be with such a legal country. We will also support the proposed Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Courts, because we believe that the proposed amendments are intended to improve the efficiency of Slovenian courts. The Ministry of Justice, together with the Supreme Court and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, prepared an operational work plan for the resolution of judicial arrears in 2005. The main measures set out in the Lukend project are the provision of spatial conditions and the organisation of human resources in justice. Other measures include simplification of legislation, judicial information, additional training of judges and prosecutors, in particular in the field of economic crime, corruption and organised crime, a change in the legal tariff towards speeding up proceedings, the establishment of a system that will speed up and facilitate the resolution of bountiful cases, the reorganisation and better conduct of courts and, inter alia, provide greater security in the courts. Many of these solutions have been introduced into this proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, it seems reasonable to support the changes that will have a positive impact on judicial backlogs, that these will be fewer and fewer, and that our judiciary will indeed be effective. We must stress, however, that the right to a fair trial, in addition to a swift and effective judicial system, also contains the right to a high-quality judicial decision. The aim of the proceedings is not only speed but, above all, the issue of a correct and legal decision. The party lodging the request for judicial protection expects a informed and thorough determination of the actual situation and an expert and legal correct decision on the matter. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts allows the courts to obtain free of charge data from those official records, registries and public books which are necessary for the court to determine the facts relating to the conduct of proceedings and are kept in an informed form. In the parliamentary group, we believe that this court allows for a more efficient and speedy procedure in matters and that the public authorities are burdened by certain procedures for the transmission of data. The parties to the proceedings will also be able to exercise their rights as they will not have to comply with those judgments of the courts and decisions of the administrative authorities relating to them or their case, but will have to be obtained by the court on an official basis. The changes that ensure the continuity of the work of the Council of Justice are also important. It will probably be more practical and effective if the term of office of members of the Court of Justice from among the Judges is terminated early, to become a member of the judges' ranks of the candidate who was next on the list of candidates. Up until now, the work of the Council of Justice has also made it difficult for the fact that every five years, membership has been completely replaced and discontinuity has thus come to an end. It is therefore reasonable for us to extend the term of office of the members of the Council to six years and that the election of half the members should take place every three years. This will ensure the continuity of decision-making. Although the Council of Justice considers that in the event of an increase in the number of Vice-Presidents of the Courts, it is only for the multiplication of functions that we hope in the SLS Group that this change will, however, contribute to the better management of the country's largest courts. We also hope that the introduction of meetings for the members of the personal council will really help to ensure that 10% more files are, as a result, resolved qualitatively. Therefore, after a new meeting of the Personal Councils, the meetings of the Personal Councils are to be convened outside the working hours and the Judges of the Personal Councils will have to maintain an uninterrupted scope of judicial work despite their work in the personal world. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that the Republic of Slovenia has already been sentenced to a total of more than €700,000, due to a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time before the European Court of Human Rights, and therefore that 10% of the work of the members of the personal councils can be an important contribution to reducing judicial backlogs. We also support the additions to the provisions of the Law on Courts relating to the upgrading of security measures in the courts. These measures are intended to ensure the establishment of a uniform, modern and compatible security system which will provide a sufficient level of security for judges, judicial staff and other staff in the courts. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also agree with the proposal setting out the legal basis for the establishment of an external section of a district court, of course if there are legitimate reasons for this, such as the overload of the individual court and the needs of the population. This will make it easier for the parties to have access to the court and ensure that the constitutional right to judicial protection is more effective. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore hope for the positive effects of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in terms of reducing judicial backlogs and better quality work of judges. That is why we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, Secretary of State! The Ministry aims to reduce backlogs, but the trials so far have failed. Only the text of the bill can be assessed as a basis for improving the law, taking into account comments. We support the acquisition of data that is maintained in computerised databases of authorities based on direct electronic access. Such an arrangement, in our opinion, will undoubtedly lead to quicker judicial action and thus quicker resolution of such cases. However, we have one, or a smaller comment, that is to specify the time frame for the transmission of the requested data, as we assess the proposed deadline as over-cold as soon as possible. Therefore, we believe that such a deadline should be set in the same way as the Administrative Procedure Act provides in these cases, 30 days from receipt of the request. It shall be decided that individual cases shall be assigned to judges in a certain way or other manner, by way of order in advance, in a manner. However, with regard to such arrangements, we have great concerns for DeSUS Members. The Constitution already lays down the principle of the independence of judges and, of course, the right to judicial protection to decide on his rights and duties and the charges against him independently, impartially, only a judge who is elected under the rules set out in the law. The bill simplifies the election of members of the Council of Justice. Members of the DeSUS do not think critically, as we are of the opinion that these comments will contribute to the establishment of the work of the Council of Justice. However, we have concerns about the accumulation of judicial functions, which is also opposed by the Council of Justice, which is suggested that some major courts should have two vice-presidents, the largest, more than 100 judges, and even three vice-presidents. We believe that this is already properly arranged so that there are no direct complications and setbacks in this area. We also oppose the introduction of direct and free access to the content of informed written courts by the Ministry of Justice, the President of the Council of Justice and the authorised persons of the Council of Justice or the Ministry of Justice. We believe that such a provision would allow for the direct control of the executive branch of the judiciary, which is certainly not in line with the principle of the division of power and the principle of the independence of the judiciary, and in particular would allow for direct access to the personal data contained in the judicial files, which is extremely questionable, perhaps even constitutionally controversial, as regards the protection of personal data. The question arises whether the right to protect personal data, as a constitutional right, has a greater weight and thus a higher priority over the right to enter and use such data. According to our assessment, we are certainly opposed to such arrangements. With regard to judicial experts, the proposal for a law certainly significantly reduces standards, which is certainly not acceptable. The legislation now in force lays down the conditions for judicial experts, including conditions for 6 years of work experience. Only in exceptional cases is it possible to overlook this condition, only under the condition of recognition of a specialist master's or doctor's address. The proposed amendment, however, removes the title and lays down only the condition of an expert in a particular field, which in fact means, if there are no judicial experts from a particular area, any expert with university education may be appointed for the latter, irrespective of the years of experience gained. Such a reduction in conditions, however, will certainly have long-term implications for the quality of the decision and for any further appeal proceedings, in our belief. We also cannot simply agree on the door and nose with the proposed unlimited access of judicial experts to the personal data of official records. A more detailed review of the proposed provisions certainly indicates an attempt to subdue the judiciary to the executive branch. Although the DeSUS Group will support the proposal, it is provided that the main shortcomings in the course of the hearing are resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u196	Thank you. We are done with the views of the parliamentary groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm always surprised, but probably because of my naivety or the perception of politics, when I hear the views of the groups of Members or individuals who say, the law is bad, the law should be finalized here and here, but we will accept it anyway. But I obviously need to learn about this kind of content of the debates and the later decisions of such parliamentary groups in the first place. I would point out that the Ministry of Justice is one of those which can be considered hyperactive within the Slovenian government. Hyperactively, both in the field of individual projects and in the legal novelties sent or offered to Parliament for admission. During today's debate, we have heard, and all those sitting here usually know that it was in the area of the Ministry of Justice that it was the addition of laws in the fields of judges, courts, prosecutors, notariats to a small sea. Hyperactivity, however, is not necessarily a positive virtue when it comes to such a serious matter as the judicial system within our country. Following the analysis we have done in the context of the unconnected Members' Group of Members, Lipa, we can say with certainty that it is precisely on the basis of this hyperactivity that many of the elements involved in the trial itself do not understand the changes that the legislator introduces in such a short time that they can be guided by their work on the basis of these changes. As a confirmation of these words, we can also say with certainty that the number of judicial delays in the calculation of the increase in judges, taking into account the improvement in judicial premises or procedures and, last but not least, the change in organisation and territoriality, to which all of the previous novelties of the said legal matter followed, has not decreased. From this title we can also assure with certainty that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the better-spoken Ministry of Justice has not yet established a formula for effective and, above all, a quality judiciary within our country of the Republic of Slovenia. As my predecessor, Boštjan Zagorac, on behalf of the parliamentary group, has assured and confirmed, we see that the life or permanent term of office should not be guaranteed for the ineffective performance of the judicial function. We firmly believe that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were really trying to reduce judicial backlogs in quality, not only to the statistical novelism of the reduction approach in individual "per partes" of judicial backlogs, then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would prepare a solution that would not come within the framework of the National Assembly every month or once a half year during a given current term, but would, of course, prepare a change that would be by measure of people. Or, in other words, who would be a citizen and a citizen. In my firm belief, we are all too often ignoring or even ignoring the fact that both politicians in the framework of the National Assembly and politicians in the context of the creation of events at individual ministries are primarily and solely committed to citizens and citizens. Only a lot later, if at all, then so-called own lobby. From this title, even if I continue in the current amendment proposal, i.e. the law currently under consideration, I think we have a number of dangerous categories or categories which interfere with the already constitutionally guaranteed basic rights of the State or the state regime, that is the separation of the powers. Why did the founder, who also wrote and defined the separation of the executive legislative and judicial branches in Slovenia? It's a conflict of interest. Since the founder had been aware of the greatest threat to democracy, which threatens a satisfied individual and thus a satisfied society, 10 and a few years ago. This is, of course, corruption in the context of the relationship of interdependence or in the worst form of the influence of one branch of power on another branch of government. And if we can tolerate, in the context of an elastic view of parliamentary development or parliamentary democracy, the influence of the executive branch of power on the legislative branch of power through a structured parliamentary majority that supports the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then we must not tolerate the influence of the executive branch of power or, finally, the legislative branches of power, namely, the Government and Parliament, on the judiciary. With the last act that you have referred to the parliamentary procedure, which is now and here, gentlemen of the motions, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, in my firm belief, you are interfering with this constitutionally guaranteed independence of each of the authorities within our country. I think that this soap is a very dangerous game to which you have embarked, and especially from the point of view of the effectiveness of the proposed changes, including this proposed amendment, which you offer us for admission and which will unfortunately be accepted, not least by the ruling parties, but by a small party, will not lead to the result that your minister, i.e. the Minister of Justice, is also full of, the result of the various celebrations and confirmations, that is to say, the effect of reducing judicial backlogs at a more high-quality trial. From this address, I can only reassurance from this place; my colleague, Boštjan Zagorac, who gave his position to the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, was right. He highlighted those shortcomings, and I myself felt obliged to point out the risk of denial of the basic or one of the initial constitutional provisions of the separation of powers during this debate. It is a dangerous project of usurpation within the so-called executive branch of the Authority. Once again, we can close our eyes and accept the reality or the fact that each current mandate is not in the form of a straight line between the executive branch and the legislative branch. But a straight line or a better worded limit should be between the executive and the judicial branches of power. The fact that the executive branch of power, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or any government has intervened in the autonomy of the judiciary, has never been positively reflected in history. Then we lost our purpose, which we promise our citizens and citizens every day for 10 and several years. Nor will I support the amendment of the amendment of the Law itself from all those arguments, or, last but not least, the content that all those who have looked at and publicly announced the proposal in its contents have been opposed to, in my opinion, the quasi-change and electoral pursuit of the reduction of judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr. Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In today's general debate, one fundamental objective is how to further improve the work of Slovenian courts, the judiciary, which is in the interest of all members of the National Assembly, and also certainly of citizens who want these proceedings to be shorter, faster and more effective. The purpose is also to amend this Law on the Court, which seeks to achieve certain objectives of the law, how and in what way to improve, to increase the speed of that court, to provide conditions that could simplify certain procedures, so that they can reach their final objective more quickly. Their intentions are certainly positive and well-intentioned and difficult to challenge. Time will show whether all these corrections are right and will give the result that the Government, the proposer, the ministry and I believe that our courts will also want. Finally, we all want to have the best possible conditions, the work of the courts, which I think they are following. However, that we are trying to remove these initial and other obstacles in this law, I think that support is broad in the National Assembly and with first reading, with corrections, we can probably do much better to get as good a law as possible, which will be able to give open opportunities for the work of the courts, so that our citizens, who are still waiting too long, unfortunately this in the larger courts, will be in large courts. As I am aware, smaller courts are very successful, very effective in these parts and are only to be welcomed. In large courts, however, this is a little more difficult. Longer species and longer procedures. I think that this is a good journey to this law, to this change that we want together, and I believe that this branch of power, which is of paramount importance, will be autonomous, has as many conditions as possible, and by this law we are still correcting some obstacles that are on the way to even better success. All the good in this way forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Courts was passed in 1994. To this day, he has experienced quite a few novelties. I think I'm sitting down. Last year was last year. I am convinced, however, that all the novelties have gone in this direction in order to improve the work in the courts or to make the work in the courts more effective and to reduce judicial backlogs. The previous governments have also worked to do so. But I think they've had less success. In this mandate, the government has, in particular, committed itself to reducing judicial backlogs, as shown by Lukend's joint state project to reduce judicial backlogs until 2010 and to ensure the right to a trial without undue delay. I would like to see these changes and additions that are before us really completed in such a way that there is no least doubt or a sense of supremacy between the judiciary and the executive branch of power. I believe that the new institutes which are incorporated into the current legislation can contribute to more efficient work in the courts. If I count a few of them. There was a talk about that today. The parties would be burdened in such a way as to enable court experts to obtain data from official records, registries and public books kept in computerised form. In order to prevent priority cases from being dealt with, the courts should be given time-limits to assign cases to judges. In doing so today, a certain fear was expressed whether this could really happen if all procedures were completed so as not to result in any irregularity. It seems important to me that even in the event of the early termination of the term of office of judges in the types of the Council of Justice, the procedure for appointing a new member of the Council of Justice should be simplified in order to ensure the continuation of the work of the Council of Justice by replacing only part of the membership every three years. It also seems important to me news that in larger courts in Slovenia, where there are many cases to call themselves vice-presidents, one or more. I hope that this will be at the expense of better court management, not for anything else. It is also important for me to determine the areas of the courts with the cadastral municipalities and to try to arrange this in such a way as to ensure that the boundaries are consistent in as many cases as possible. As I have already said, I believe that these solutions can bring better work in the courts, but I think there will be a lot more to do, so that the practice will show what changes need to be made, and I expect the competent ministry to register such proposals and then resolve them further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr State Secretary knows that we have talked a lot about the content that is partly defined in this law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, which I will support for two reasons, is very clear. There was a district court in Trbovje, with the decision of another political authority, the district court was abolished and moved to the centre of Slovenia. This centre of Slovenia was suddenly burdened with judicial backlogs. The result of the burden was Hercules, Luca, maybe something else. In eight years, I remember a lot of measures to reduce backlogs. And the Secretary of State and I have had so many direct talks that we would not burden the National Assembly on bringing certain matters back to the District Courts. I understand that this law allows for the establishment of external departments of district courts, which is burdensome and therefore I support. And the other thing that convinced me that I would support the marriage was that both Hercules and Lukenda brought some fact that judges or judges, I apologize, I don't know the legal language, they went from where they have their basic work to somewhere else and helped reduce the judicial backlog. From what I understand, it was then determined that with its own landing. As far as I understand this law now, as I understand it, because I am no longer in the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, this means that these judges will have to go, regardless of their own opinion, to act and reduce judicial backlogs to others. These are two important reasons that will make me, Bogdan Barovič, the Slovenian National Party, support this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers! The judicial system is certainly an extremely complex system, and at this point I agree with one of my predecessors when we think about the improvements in the judicial system, unfortunately always our thought connects to the heavy burden, these are the judicial backlogs we are trying to resolve. And I'm sure this is the task of the government and the National Assembly. And at this point, I see that the Ministry of Justice is already hyperactive, that this is a positive hyperactivity that is going in the direction of resolution of judicial backlogs. With regard to the amendment of the Law on Courts, I must say that I will support it, as the amendment of the Law on Courts between the other courts allows them to obtain the information they need in order to determine the facts concerning the conduct of proceedings, from official records, official registries and public books, which are maintained electronically. It is therefore a matter of legally allowing access to the relevant public databases. There must be a lot of reserves in the judicial system in this area. Not only in the judicial branch of government, I say, in other segments, we are underexploiting information technology. In this way, courts are allowed to operate more efficiently and to proceed more quickly in individual cases. As is the case with the courts, the proposed amendments allow judicial experts to directly obtain the information they need in order to draw up an executive opinion on a specific judicial procedure. Data can be obtained from official records and also from the private sector. This ensures a higher speed of the proceedings and, last but not least, a lower burden on the individual judge in relation to the acquisition of data. Such information may only be obtained on the basis of the accompanying order or decision of the court for the production of an expert opinion. With amendments and additions to the Courts Act, the parties to the proceedings shall be allowed to obtain, in order to facilitate the exercise of their rights by an official duty, the necessary judgments of the courts and decisions of the administrative authorities to which the parties state and refer to them or their case. One of the positive things is that with a novelty to the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice, direct and free electronic access to the content of computerised court registrations is to be made possible, but only for statistical, research and analytical purposes. The Law on Courts is being supported, but I am confident that further parliamentary procedures will make further improvements. Allow me to say a few words about the Lukend project. Someone used to say the project was three and a half years old and so on. Here I would only point out that, in analysing the achievements already demonstrated by the Lukenda project, it is only necessary to be precise and it should be said that the Lukenda project did not celebrate its 2nd birthday until the end of last year. Achievements should be closely monitored. Maybe a few numbers. The Lukenda project is very successful in the higher courts and in some district courts. These courts have already achieved 50% of the Lukenda realization and thus have achieved the Lukenda objective, the current resolution objective belongs to the cases, which means that the number of outstanding cases at the end of the period is less than half the number of cases received. On the contrary, a number of district and district courts are still far from the goal pursued. That's what you have to say. At the same time, it is also important to review the resolution of the case under Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure. Some courts, for example, have not yet achieved the objective of ongoing resolution, but have made intensive efforts to resolve real judicial backlogs. These include, for example, the District Court in Murska Sobota, which has almost 94% of the realization of Luca. I'm happy to point that out here. In the period from 31.12.2006 to 30.6.2007, the number of judicial arrears decreased by 40%. The county court in Celje has almost 84% of Lukenda's realisation. Between 31.12.2006 and 30.6.2007, however, the number of judicial delays decreased by 13%. The district court in Ajdovščina has a 109% realization of Luca. In the period from 31.12.2006 to 30.6.2007, however, the number of judicial delays was reduced by a low 15%. These are the numbers on which it has to be recognised that the Ministry of Justice had a happy hand when it came to the launch of the Lukend project. And of course, legislation, or the relatively large number of laws that we adopt in the National Assembly, certainly aims to reduce judicial backlogs at the given time interval. These numbers that I have listed - this is only part of the facts that create the conditions for the smooth implementation of the Lukend project and for the resolution of judicial backlogs, both in 2008 and in the following years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u206	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u207	Good-bye, everyone. In Slovenia, since the reorganisation of the judiciary, a good decade ago, we have faced judicial backlogs, which were mostly concentrated during a certain period of time. In addition, for many years the judges have pointed out that they are working under poor conditions, in poor conditions, which make it impossible to judge quickly and effectively, i.e. as quickly as possible, as they experience their epilogue as quickly as possible. Therefore, a number of measures have been taken in this direction in order to improve these conditions. We also appointed a number of judges in this reference. Compared to the mandates from 1996 to 2000 or 2000 to 2004, we have named them most, but they are not yet the end of the mandate. A number of amendments to the laws have been adopted, which have simplified certain procedures. And when my colleague talks about the hyperactivity of the Ministry of Justice; I myself have been a member of the Committee on Internal Policy; and we have indeed adopted many laws in this area, but precisely to create better conditions for better work of judges. I agree that the judicial branch of the policy must not be affected and it does not, but it is the Ministry of Justice's first task to provide conditions or the first to create conditions for the judicial branch of the government to do what must be done. The law brings many innovations that will facilitate the work of judges and make it more effective. It is determined or the court can access information databases, which is certainly positive for people. We keep sending them for various evidence and certificates that institutions can obtain themselves, so it is only right that they have this option and that we do not burden customers. A more flexible allocation of cases is being introduced. There have also been quite a few comments here that the cases are assigned to individual judges by day according to alphabetical order. This is now changing or will be granted in another way, which will be determined by order. The procedure for appointing a new member of the Council of Justice and several other matters shall be simplified. I will therefore support the amendment of the Law on Courts myself, because I am sure it brings quite a few innovations that will enable and facilitate the work of judges and improve the conditions for their work, which we all want to be effective and fast. The new law has my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Friday, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. To all present, to all others a good greeting! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts brings a number of useful changes followed by the intentions of the Lukend project. In recent years we have indeed witnessed at all levels of the revolution in computerisation and it is also logical that the Court has free access to records that are important in the conduct of a judicial procedure. This is important in two ways. First, the court can work faster and thus reduce backlogs. Secondly, as far as possible, the parties to the proceedings are made it easier in court to work so that they do not have to run from one official to another. I would, however, have stopped myself under Article 20 of this Amendment Act, Article 20, which amends Article 114 and sets out 44 District Courts in Slovenia. In my view, it is necessary to cut into this article a little bit more in the future and to ensure an appropriate geographical and population distribution of these areas. On the one hand, certain district courts either unite or, on the other hand, enable Koroška to ensure that the judiciary is not only in one place, at one centre. See, the Celje region has a court in Šentjur, Šmar, Velenj, Žalac and Slovenian Horses next to the Regional Court in Celje. Posavije, which has 71,000 inhabitants, is less than in the Koro region, has county courts next to Krske in Brežice and Sevnica. Gorenjska has courts in Škofja Loka, Radovljica and in Jesenica in addition to the district court in Kranj. Pomurje - the county court is not only in Murski Sobota, but also in Lendava, Gornji Radgona and also Prleki have their district court in Ljutomer. The state upgraded the courthouse in Slovenj Gradc years ago. At Ravna, however, the country has 600 square metres of uninhabited land owned by the state. Would it not also suggest thinking about a certain decentralisation in this area? This is to bring judicial protection closer in this Korean region as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u211	I have to take another look at this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, because I think it is necessary to stress once again that the proposed solutions are good and that the main and main objective is to resolve these judicial backlogs that we have today in the courts. However, it is right and fair to say that it is not good to condemn the courts and to take them as the only culprits for these backlogs. Not far. I absolutely cannot agree with that. I am sure that we have many good working and good judges in Slovenian courts who are working and working to the best of their ability. Surely, it is a major culprit for these large backlogs also all the existing legislation we have in Slovenia. Therefore, to speak today and to blame the Ministry of Justice for how it is working and how it is too hasty with legislative changes, I think this is indeed an entirely unjustifiable accusation. I am convinced that all these changes in laws concerning justice and courts will produce good and positive fruits. I am also sure that these very few laws, which we are planning to adopt in this mandate, will contribute to this. It is true that the first results are already showing up in the process of remedying judicial backlogs. I am sure that by the end of this year and next year, these results will still be significantly higher. I will therefore conclude that I will gladly support the amendments to this law, as well as all the laws that will come to the National Assembly and will have the same or the same purpose in helping to speed up the work in the courts and to speed up the resolution of these judicial backlogs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u212	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to point out that I am convinced that the request for a general discussion on this proposal has certainly been justified. Six months ago, this marriage was last amended, and I've talked about it. Did not the proposer know at the time that some of the changes he was proposing today were worth it? If he didn't know that at the time, then we can blame him today. For example, the Secretary of State specifically explained in the introduction that this novel will also address the harmonisation of the borders of the area of courts with the Katastra municipalities. And now I want to explain, or do I misinterpret things: How is it that the boundaries of the Cadastral congregations are not even aligned with the borders between countries? For example, in the case of Hotize, what is the situation on the coast in the case of the boundaries of the Cadastral congregations? Maybe I misunderstood these things. If I am, I'm glad, and I'm asking you to explain. Then you propose to replace half of the members of the Council of Justice every three years. This may be useful, with reference to the regulation of certain courts in the European area. I am aware of such arrangements, particularly in the European Court of Human Rights, but I am concerned here that comments on such a solution are the most relevant to the Court of Justice. I wonder: Why could you not reconcile such a proposed solution with the Council of Justice? That would probably be very thoughtful. But most of all, I am concerned about this proposal for assigning specific cases to specific judges. Our Constitution is clear in the second paragraph of Article 23 that these are rules that are predetermined by law and judicial order. The proposer here also discusses sub-legislative acts. The Constitution does not specifically give that power. We know how individual sub-laws are adopted and we have already witnessed in this mandate some very quickly adopted sub-legislative acts that later proved controversial. They are also controversial in terms of consistency with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. And before the Constitutional Court, at the initiative of those with a legal interest, could find that this is contrary to the Constitution, in this particular case, the allocation of specific cases to specific judges could already be seriously damaged. Of course, we would also be asking here for an additional explanation by the Secretary of State, because both the wording in the article and, of course, the wording in the explanatory memorandum in some way contradicts itself, so I would ask, because either I can't read or, in fact, this formulation is very poorly written. I am also very concerned about these milestones in the implementation of additional measures in the event of an assessment of the threat to the courts and judges. Although we understand that we are all striving to ensure adequate security - both courts and judges. But it is a very serious measure of recording and storing recordings and electronic communications. It's a serious invasion of privacy. I'm very sorry, but the coalition MPs don't have any problems with these rules. And even today, I have heard that some of you have already stated that you will be happy to support such solutions. I do not think there is any particular joy necessary, given that there can actually be a gap between the objectives we want to achieve and between the measures we want to implement. There has been a lot of serious, serious, systemic issues raised here today in this general debate, and this debate has certainly been useful, although someone has said before that it is essentially a waste of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u215	Thank you very much. No, the debate is certainly not a waste of time. I myself believe that it has been weighty and even a great deal of what has been said is worth considering and it will also be possible to assess these matters in the course of the process, and perhaps even to complete, amend, correct, supplement. As far as the security concerns are concerned, we would go too far in terms of privacy in the courts. This may also be a topic worth discussing and also formulating or further making a change, a correction that would also take into account this sensitivity to privacy. But there's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. Look, we're not going to celebrate Thursday, we're going to celebrate the seventh anniversary of the attack on our fellow journalist Friday. The epilogue that happened in this case is well - known to all of us. The matter was concluded without anyone responsible for the event. Although a crime was committed, there is no doubt about it, this crime has remained unpunished. And the words of one of the lecturers at the Faculty of Law in Maribor, that this decision is a triumph of the rule of law, are a mockery of all those who are trying to do something about the greater effectiveness of the justice system. I am not saying that all that is wrong about this is about organising and regulating courts. Far from it. For we know that, as part of criminal proceedings, we also have law enforcement authorities, the police, the prosecution and so on, and we need to deal with this matter in a very comprehensive manner and to do as much as possible in the complex area, to create the conditions that the crime will in fact not go unpunished. However, I think it is appropriate that we also draw attention to this problem in the field of the Law on Courts. And in this area, we are also preparing further changes that will make it possible to work more efficiently, work better and so on. Some of this has also been said in today's debate. It is not right to wait for any change in the law, waiting for more things to come together. As soon as we detect something, let us prepare the novel and give it to us. In the coming months, I think there will be a need for another novelty in this light of the debates that have also been said today. Finally, once again, the debate was by no means a waste of time; it was welcome. I think that this debate has also helped us to think more about preparing further improvements for better, better, more efficient work in the future. And not only courts, but also all other institutions that work to ensure that the rule of law is respected and that laws are adopted as strictly as possible, but also implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u216	Thank you. Does Mr. Marolt, as Secretary of State, wish to speak on behalf of the motioner? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Let me explain some things for a moment. I've tried to record your thoughts, including some questions, including some of the obvious, that the Ministry of Justice is hyperactive. I consider this to be a compliment to all employees and members of the Ministry of Justice, who are working hard and working hard to ensure that the conditions for the work of the Slovenian judiciary are as good as possible within the framework of their powers, i.e. in the framework of legislative powers, the preparation of regulations, the provision of spatial and technical conditions and other competences in accordance with the law. As regards the amendment to the law before you and on which the debate has been held, I would like to point out that it is a change which, on the one hand, facilitates the work of the courts, judges, judges, judges, judicial assessors, judicial experts involved in judicial proceedings, and, on the other hand, it is very important that this is a change after, if I quote, "amendment by the measure of the people", as mentioned, that is to say, a change simplifying judicial proceedings, parties in judicial proceedings, citizens, citizens, economic societies are being debated by proposing evidence in official records. The novelty is also in the whole spirit of ensuring the right to a trial within a reasonable period of time, it is in the interest of the parties in judicial proceedings to close the proceedings as soon as possible if the parties' cases cannot be resolved out of court. In doing so, I must strongly reject the obvious fact that the executive branch of power is said to interfere with the rule of law. With this bill, the Ministry of Justice has absolutely nothing to do with the independence, independence and work of the judiciary. We are simply, once again, facilitating the work of the judiciary. As regards the judicial backlogs, the Lukend project, I would like to point out here that statistics clearly indicate that the number of pending cases is decreasing and that judicial backlogs are also decreasing, which are defined by the current court order as what is considered to be a backlog. This is clearly demonstrated by statistics and data is obtained exclusively by the Ministry of Justice and only by the courts. Here, the Ministry of Justice cannot alter the information it obtains from the courts, as some observation has been mentioned in the meantime. Now, as regards the question of the cadastral municipalities of the honourable Member, I would like to stress that the boundaries of the judicial districts are unchanged, and the boundaries of the judicial districts remain the same as they are now. But we know, as has already been pointed out, that congregations are changing, because by the law in force, the boundaries of the areas of the municipalities are being established, municipalities are changing, municipalities are being divided, new municipalities are being formed, so it is really more reasonable, logical, understandable, and also transparent that the judicial districts are being established according to a cadastral which is immovable and does not change. With regard to the allocation of judges' cases, it was obvious that they would now, I don't know, be assigning cases to judges. The cases will also be allocated in accordance with the Constitution following the proposed amendment of the Law on Courts. The second paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that only a judge who is elected by rules may be tried in advance by law and by a judicial order. However, the first paragraph of the proposal continues to provide that the powers to establish more detailed rules on the allocation of cases to individual judges may be determined only by a judicial order which shall be adopted in a different procedure than either a regulation or an instruction. So this is not an intervention for a different way of assigning cases than will be determined or set out in the Rules of Procedure. As regards the harmonisation of the law, I would stress that we have sent the amendment of the law as well as other provisions in the field of justice to coordination and to all the judicial authorities as well. Not only to the Council of Justice, but also to all the courts, which is the practice that we have put in place at the Ministry of Justice, that the courts should also be informed of the proposed amendments to all the rules. It has been mentioned that the amendment will strengthen the role of the Minister of Justice in the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts. Nothing at all. The new law before you is without prejudice to the provisions of the Judicial Act appointing the Presidents of the Courts, the Vice-Presidents of the Courts, or to increasing the powers of the Minister of Justice. In this novel, which is before you, these provisions are not provided for in the law. As far as judicial experts are concerned, judicial interpreters and access to the data of judicial experts, judicial interpreters. See, these are warnings from both the associations of judicial experts and the courts that the procedures for obtaining data in specific court proceedings are long-lasting. On the other hand, they burden the judges who are on specific matters, that they must obtain a judicial expert appointed by a specific court decision or order or a decision to draw up an expert opinion. Here, we are stressing the judges so that the information that the judge would practically seek from him and the judge will hand over to the judge, on the basis of this order of the judge, can be obtained by an expert judge. There is absolutely nothing in violation of the rules on the protection of personal data, but there is a clear provision on this method and, of course, analogous to the acquisition of the necessary data. As regards access to computerised records, I reiterate, for statistical, analytical and research purposes, which is available to the Council of Justice and also to the Ministry of Justice. I'd like to mention here, court statistics. We are now obtaining data from the judiciary on judicial statistics on a form that the courts, the Presidents of the Courts and other servants will fill out manually, brand, sign and send to the Ministry of Justice in a work where there are no yet-informed entries. This simplifies that, in the case of IT bases, statistics can also be obtained more easily, faster and without the necessary burden of the courts and judges with this view. Here, we must not forget the competence of the Ministry of Justice, which was also determined by the analysis found in the twinning project, the abolition of judicial delays when a well-known German judge, Mr Doukoff, at the Ministry of Justice in the previous term, was found to have a very important role in shaping the judiciary policy. It is a matter of adopting practical initiatives for new legislative initiatives, and it is an urgent concern for the smooth implementation of laws. It could therefore be concluded that the area of judicial statistics is also considered by this analysis to be crucial for the proper formulation of the right policy in the judiciary. However, the prerequisite for quality judicial statistics is also the accuracy of specific data. So here's every doubt, every fear is completely exaggerated. In view of the fact that the proposed amendment also confers the right of the Council of Justice to have access to these computerised registers; of course, it is also necessary, as the Council of Justice also decides to appoint a judge either in a higher title or in another court seat, and we do not see why the Council of Justice would not automatically, easily and without the necessary burden of the courts to have access to information about a judge who is attempting to come to a higher judicial office or who wishes to advance to a higher or judicial title. So that this is not an intervention, not an executive branch of power, nor a judicial council in the work of the courts. With regard to the establishment of external departments. It is true that there have already been many initiatives here to establish certain external departments in certain areas, such as the external departments of the District Courts in certain areas where they do not have a district court. However, I must pay particular tribute to the fact that the external departments of the District Courts will not be able to form the Minister of Justice on their own initiative, but will only be able to be established by the Minister of Justice after the previous opinion of the President of the District Court, whose external department or departments are being set up. So this is not some special exclusive primary responsibility of the minister, but the competent president of the District Court will be involved. The President of the Court, who is responsible for determining the annual timetable of judges and judges, will then be able to deploy a judge from the Court’s seat to enable the exercise of judicial authority in the area, which is also an option now, if the need to remedy certain delays arises, the judge may be reassigned, in accordance with the legal powers already adopted in this National Assembly, from one court to another, in order to resolve the judicial backlogs.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u218	Thank you. Since all the advertised debaters who wanted to get the word, the time for discussion is still available, I ask: Does anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. Then it is. [[...]] Then I open the application and whoever wants to apply. Mr. Jerovšek, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. I must say that I support the amendment of the Law on Courts, because I believe that the Ministry, under the current leadership throughout the entire mandate, not only do I believe that I see the positive energy of the Ministry and change, and therefore I do not understand those who will be accused of such behaviour by the Ministry and of changing the law that will enable faster rights, I think, better achieving the right to a trial within a reasonable time. I understand here the Social Democrats, as well as some others from the opposition, that they are concerned about the speedier and more efficient functioning of the courts, especially now that they have also teamed up in the criminal service and the prosecution to prosecute economic crime. Of course, such a situation and such thinking by some opposition parties must be pointed out to the Slovenian public. And this component of obstruction of persecution, including economic crime, includes a novelty, a law introduced by the Social Democracy, Mrs Beblereva, which is supposed to oppose the reduction of legal tariffs. This is a very clear project, how to fight effective trial, against real prices for, in fact, that an average citizen can effectively defend himself in court and of course understand them. I almost believe what has been learned later that this has been made also because the financing of their electoral campaign would otherwise be compromised, because it is about lawyers who have a strong influence on companies that mainly finance their electoral campaigns. Our citizens must be very careful about such negative tendencies in the field of justice, because, if we were to possess such aspirations, we could return to a period 12 years ago when the economic department of the criminal police knowingly destroyed itself, that it was unable to prosecute economic crime when the special groups of prosecutors for the prosecution of this most dangerous crime, organised as well as economic crime, were abolished. And these aspirations are extremely clear and therefore also the concerns and objections of this new law. I am counting on the Slovenian public to support the efforts that have been made in an effective form lately, and therefore, in fact, I want a loud opposition to the opposition to the amendment of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u220	Thank you. Mrs. Bebler, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would just like to say this that I can't help my colleague, Mr Jerovsk, with his delusions. But what you really didn't understand was that you didn't understand the bill of attorney I filed. Because this proposal does not touch the tariff system in any way. There's nothing to talk about. So... [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]] [[How?]] Nothing's blocked, just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u222	Only Mrs. Bebler has the floor [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u223	the right of everyone. [[...]] [[I am used to such rude communication with Mr Jerovsk, which is why I have nothing to do with it.]] But if he thinks it's a Member's right to file some law blocking the legislative process, then he's being driven by fundamental postulates and the principles of the functioning of parliamentary democracy. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u225	Dear Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows! As I have already announced in the introductory part, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not agree with the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts for a number of reasons. But now I would touch on another matter, which was so poetically described by the Secretary of State as being completely innocent, that is, direct access to the data in the files covered by the computerised records. In fact, it is possible to access data in a particular case involving a variety of personal, not only personal, customer data, but also a type of dispute. In particular, it is those disputes in which the public is excluded, whether it is a matter of, say, divorce disputes or some covert investigative measures and wiretapping under the Slovenian Intelligence Agency Act. This is clearly a violation of one of the powers that the political authority may have in relation to an independent judiciary. This is the beginning, this is that skull that you keep dropping into this forest and you're trying to somehow get information that would serve you for another case. It's not just about power, it's about the country, it's about the possibilities that the customers have. So you're setting up a system of many seals that then leave. Now he leaves, say, in a criminal service or in a prosecutor's office. And if you can't convict people and allow normal procedures, you can get them dirty. This is made possible by such complex systems, exceptions, permits. This is not just about the minister, it is about a number of people who can then access such data more people when they see them, there is more chance that something is leaking somewhere, which, of course, harms what Mr Jerovšek advocates, when he says that things would be arranged as quickly as possible, it is clear that there would be a completion of procedures, which we are all fighting for anyway. But a system that is designed in itself, which is perfectly set up to allow people to piggyback, and after all, it doesn't even matter how the process ends. Either it ends positively or negatively, or in some way it is cancelled due to procedures, then it does not matter anyway. The main thing is that people are dirty and covered. This allows for such changes. And it is not surprising, therefore, that from the Ministry of Justice, permanent, hasty news, novels of novelties, changes, is said to be a hyper production, this must certainly not be an honor for you, Mr State Secretary. This speaks either of recklessness or of the moves of the great chess player and player Goj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Marolt responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I mean, I'm sorry, but Mr. Gulič is talking about the court files. Our amendment to the law does not, however, refer to the fact that the Ministry of Justice or the Council of Justice with this amendment of the law would have access to a particular judicial file. But the amendment makes it clear that it is direct electronic access to the computerised recorder in the court or to the computerised records in the court. However, the minutes are not specific court records. And once again, I would like to point out explicitly in the law, the proposal for the amendment clearly states that it is only statistical, analytical and research purposes, direct and free electronic access only to computerised subscribers. The main purpose of access is the electronic collection of statistics, which are now unnecessaryly burdening work through handwritten entries. Although it is only a matter of access to aggregate statistics, the proposal to amend the law also has clearly defined safeguards on the traceability of data transmission and on the power to access this data. If you allow me, I would just answer about it, but there was also a clear statement in the debate regarding the provision of security in the courts. Ensuring security in Slovenian courts is extremely important for the functioning of judicial bodies. Here I must point out that in this mandate we have embarked extremely intensively, proactively on the provision of security conditions in Slovenian courts, in Slovenian judicial bodies. We believe, however, that the measures envisaged in the event of an estimated threat are necessary and are also proportionate to ensuring the right to privacy when the President of the Court finds that a specific court is at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u228	Thank you. And there's another replica of Mr. Jerovsk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I am extremely pleased by the opposition Members' disagreement with my implementation, because this just confirms me, but also the broader information we have received confirms that these parties are extremely concerned about the effectiveness of the courts. It is also clear that that law relating to lawyers has been introduced in order to block the reduction of legal tariffs. While I understand from this information that this is very relevant to your client's funding, because these most notorious lawyers who have an influence in some transition companies are threatening that if you do not work in such a way that you will be squandered in the financing of the electoral campaign. You will do everything you can to make the funding go well, but we will also tell us publicly what is going to happen to the ordinary citizen, who is opposed to having some normal access to judicial protection, so you have also been opposed to reducing notary tariffs, this needs to be said publicly again, you are always on the opposite side of a normal citizen, an average citizen. And I want you to stress this very loudly, now we are in the legal time for such an emphasis. The public will surely understand and understand this, and I will be the one to say it publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u230	Mr Jerovšek, this is not the topic we are talking about. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You started what I wanted to say. But I think it is necessary to warn Mr Jerovsk, to warn him that he is speaking nonsense in the National Assembly, but they do not belong in this house, and it would be appropriate to stop him while he speaks without later explaining to him that this is not the point of the agenda. How Mr Jerovšek separates normal from abnormal citizens is his business. How their client or your client is financed and on this basis you judge others is again your business. It is not appropriate, however, that you speak of the opposition party in the way you have always afforded, and therefore the President should warn him and suggest that you take advantage of this opportunity given to you by the Rules of Procedure in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u232	Mr. Jerovšek was not offensive. So talk about the parties, you do that, you do that, you want to, but you all talk, not just the members of one parliamentary group, and if you had to interrupt the debate on this level, then probably the debate would no longer be here in the National Assembly. However, I think there has been nothing shocking about this debate and these replicas and procedural matters. Well, this concludes the debate and the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO CONSIDER THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH ACTIVITY LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The representative of the Government, Dr. Darko Žiberna, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, is coming to the Chamber and will immediately receive the floor for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Žiberna, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u233	Hello, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are very welcome. Thus, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities regulates matters which essentially relate to the coordination of the Slovenian acquis in this field with the relevant Directive of the European Union. The new Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications has defined the scope for the provision of occasional and occasional health services more broadly, although the deadline for its implementation has already expired in October 2007. At the time of the drafting process, none of the Member States of the European Union has yet implemented that Directive, but they are obliged to provide a substantive summary, which means that it is an identical regulation of this area in different legal systems. The occasional and occasional provision of health services will be assessed on a case-by-case basis: according to the duration, frequency, regularity and continuity of services. The service provider will have to submit a written application to the Ministry of Health before the first provision of services in the Republic of Slovenia. Such an application will be submitted in writing or electronically and extended on the first occasional provision of health services in the Republic of Slovenia in a particular calendar year. If the service provider has already provided these services in the Republic of Slovenia, the service provider will answer ethically, professionally, criminally, materially in the same way as health workers and healthcare professionals in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment to the law also extends health care to tertiary level as it seeks to facilitate the provision of these health services at all levels of health activity. It is possible to obtain an address: a clinic, a clinical institute or a clinical department, also for individual departments of higher education institutions providing health care. The draft law also contains harmonisation provisions with the Law on Offences concerning the determination of fines. At the same time, it is complemented by new offences concerning the provision of occasional or occasional health services. In fact, the novel itself has three content sets: implementation of this kind of legal order of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order for the area of occasional and occasional parts of health professions in our country. Secondly: it extends this activity also to those areas that have so far been released from marital matter. This is the activity of tertiary health institutions. And he coordinates the fines from tolars to euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u234	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to Mr Ljub Germić, President of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 28th regular meeting, the Health Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and reception, proposing that the law submitted be examined following a reduced procedure, as confirmed by the College of the National Assembly at its 121st regular meeting. In addition to the text of the bill, the members of the Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, a letter from the Faculty of Health Sciences of the University of Maribor and an opinion from the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Darko Žiberna, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. He stressed that the proposer wants to bring the bill into line with the EU acquis and implement the directives in all areas of health care. In addition, the proposed amendment to the Act extends the health activity at tertiary level. In accordance with the Law on Offences, criminal sanctions are also regulated. The legislative and legal service has examined that proposal of the law and has drawn up comments on Articles 2, 3 and 5 of the draft law. The Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons in its opinion supports the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act. It considers that the proposed amendment to the Act extends health activities at tertiary level and thus enables the provision of health services at all levels of health activity. The bill also contains the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on Offences. The new law is intended to help regulate the problem of employment in health, which is facing severe shortages of workers and co-workers. Within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft Law were tabled by the LDS MPs to Article 1 and the SDS sent groups, NSI, SLS, DeSUS to Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, Article 4 and Article 5. The members of the Committee supported the amendments of the four coalition groups to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 but did not support the other amendments proposed. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure, a proposal for a law is prepared at the meeting of the Committee in the light of the amendments adopted. The amended bill, which is also an integral part of this report, also includes all the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u236	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives or representatives of the Ministry of Health. A while ago, we adopted a law on the recognition of professional qualifications in the National Assembly. You want to, you don't want to, it's a bonded marriage. It is about the transposition of the European directives into Slovenia in the right order, as we have heard from the Secretary of State today. In this basic technical law, which we have adopted in the framework of the parent body, work, family and social affairs, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the law is disastrously prepared. That there are inappropriate explanations of the legal provisions that there are incomprehensible solutions that may even damage public health or human safety in certain sectors. This was enshrined in the technical law, which is in fact the basis for the adoption of today's law, which belongs to the department of another ministry. It didn't matter at the time, or we're going to install a security guard in certain professions, and I'm going to expose health workers, order mandatory examination of the qualifications of candidates, it's about foreigners, it's a real foreign labour force, in our country's workplace. The only thing that was important at the time in the adoption of the law was the rationalisation of the work of the state administration and the principle of economics. These two principles actually mean, respected colleagues and colleagues, that foreigners or foreign citizens can be employed by a very simplified procedure in our country. Without prior verification, only on the basis of some vaguely formed competences recorded on a paper sheet. And when I mentioned competences. At that time, there was also a question of what does a certificate of competence, specifically for a nurse mean. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who attended the meeting at the time, had no idea what he would have answered that question. I still don't know, and I believe that even those people who are actually going to meet this law don't know what a certificate of competence for a nurse means. He doesn't know our legal order. What are the criteria on the basis of which an official at the Ministry of Field Affairs, in the case of this law, of course the Ministry of Health, determines that a person is competent for the performance of a particular function because of his personal development? How is the mandatory use of the Slovenian language, I wonder. That roof law that we have already adopted in the National Assembly does not provide for mandatory use of Slovenian language in communication with people, users of services. This law doesn't specifically speak of it. Because of the principle of economics, which the Government points out in its own explanation, on the basis of the full application of only the application, I emphasise that they will begin to provide occasional or occasional health services without additional checks, respected colleagues and colleagues. Nor will it be checked if the information in the application holds, can be false qualifications, false information in the application, but it is legally sufficient for a foreign worker to be employed in our country, including in the field of health. The law states that in this way we will solve the problem of employment in health care where we are currently facing a shortage of health workers, special nurses and radiologists are exposed. But you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is no way to solve the health problem, where else we need to start solving this problem. There are trained nurses, hands on hearts, enough but not in public health, why? Due to good working conditions, due to high wages, the problem has to be solved there. And finally, because time is chasing me, the Ministry of Health will decide, and so I ask, is the profession a nurse a profession that affects public health and safety? The answer to this question is, of course, related to Article 3 of the law that we are talking about today, crucial at that moment of respectable colleagues and colleagues when you press votes for or against.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u238	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Bručan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u239	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry. The main objective of the proposed law is to comply with the legal order of the European Union and to implement directives in all areas of health care. With these proposed amendments and amendments to the Health Public Act, Article 24a is complemented by Article 24a, which regulates the occasional and occasional provision of health services, which has been incorporated into the Health Public Act in order to comply with the Directives governing the recognition of professional qualifications, which has already been mentioned several times today. The law is therefore in line with the new Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications of 7 September 2005, where the scope for the provision of occasional and occasional health services is more regulated. The occasional and occasional provision of health services will be assessed as stated on a case-by-case basis according to duration and frequency. This seems to me to be a very important novelty in this law, in compliance with European Union legislation, and of course it is of particular importance that the service provider will have to submit a written application to the Ministry of Health before the first provision of services in the Republic of Slovenia. This is significantly more manageable in this area than it has been so far, as such a declaration can be submitted both in writing and electronically and can be extended once a year. This application, which is very important, will also have to include information on insurance coverage or other forms of personal or collective insurance related to professional responsibility, in addition to the information provided so far for the occasional provision of health services. This is also of paramount importance for normal operation. In order to provide health services, the service provider will not have to carry out the procedure for the recognition of professional classifications, but a full application will be sufficient for the provision of services. An exception to this profession will apply to professions which affect public health or safety which are not subject to automatic recognition in accordance with the law governing the procedure for the recognition of qualifications. These professions shall be defined by the Minister or Minister responsible for Health. And what is particularly important in this law, and this amendment of the law has given it the opportunity to regulate itself, and the amendment of Article 18 of the current law, is that there is an extension of health activity at tertiary level, and that it is also possible to operate or obtain the name of a clinic, a clinical institute, etc., including some or some departments of higher education institutions, what has not been possible now. It's been a long time since the Ministry planned these things to work out. This opportunity has now been offered with this amendment of the law, and we are pleased to welcome it in the SDS Group. This amendment represents a substantive change in the legal regime relating to the implementation of health activities at tertiary level and to some extent also regulates the current state of control and which has not been legalised and at the same time allows these services used at this level to also be financed by a health insurance undertaking. On the basis of the above, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Act, which is in line with the content of the European Union's legal order in the field of the implementation of health activities and the extension of health activities at tertiary level. For all the health activities mentioned above, the objective of improving human health must be at the forefront. Of course, particular emphasis should also be placed on some other options that are still open to further changes in the field of the Health Act, which have now not had a chance to change, but I think they will need to be prepared in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker! As set out in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, the basic reason for adopting amendments and supplementing the law in the first place is the adoption of a new Directive in the field of professional recognition of qualifications, which otherwise regulates the occasional and occasional provision of health services and is to be implemented by the end of October 2007, as it has been written and in view of this introduction, we are already somewhat late. The explanation explains what is changing in this law, in addition to the basic purpose that I have mentioned, the health activity at the tertiary level is expanding and, as has already been said, the amendment adopted by the LDS Club, which further regulates the position of the tertiary institution and since this amendment was adopted by the committee, this law is even closer to us. Among other things, of course, he talks about regulating the occasional and occasional provision of health services and then aligns the law with the Law on Offences. The proposed provision is therefore in line with the Law on Offences and this 18th article, which I have just discussed, is now complemented by being acceptable to the Group of Social Democrats, which will not oppose the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u243	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr President, once again. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Even at the LDS, we will not oppose the New Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act. Since the content, as has already been mentioned here many times, is mainly a alignment with the acquis of the European Union. It allows for the dissemination of healthcare activities at tertiary level and means the harmonisation of criminal sanctions with the Offences Act. Slovenia has committed itself, by entering the European Union, to respect its legal order, which includes, inter alia, the establishment of an internal market characterised by the removal of barriers to the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital within the European Union. The adoption of a new Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in 2005 modifies the occasional and occasional management of health services. With the implementation of the Directive in Slovenia, the EU citizen, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation with the permission to work in the country of origin is allowed to obtain occasional or temporary work for us after the procedure has been carried out in Slovenia. In addressing this law, we would like to reiterate the Ministry of Health's practice of poorly preparing proposals for marriage in the LDS. Although, at first glance, it was a matter of simple regulation of the laws and regulations of the European Union in the Slovenian legal order and that it was a matter of more or less pure technical law, which at the end of the day includes only nine articles, its treatment on the home labour body, and in particular on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, showed a lack of expertise, a lack of knowledge of the system law governing this area, and sometimes it was possible to see signs, if so to say,'slamparia', since the reference of the text of one article to the content in other articles was quite inaccurate. Thus, the text of the Amendment and the amendment of the Health Act should be supplemented or corrected by amendments, which are a literal copy of the Directive, in a manner appropriate to healthcare professionals. However, certain corrections were necessary because of the non-compliance between the Directive and the system law. This is through the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the conduct of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Inaccuracies here, of course, are of concern, including on the basis of the consideration of the system law in the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where, at that time, Members and Members of the opposition addressed a number of issues of irreconcilability to the applicant, and here again I would like to draw attention to the fact that the inadequacy of the legal texts in such an important area as the provision of health care can, of course, also have adverse effects on the health care of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal for a law between institutions, i.e. higher education institutions in the field of health, defined the Faculty of Medicine, defined the Faculty of Pharmacy and Higher Schools of Health, forgetting the Faculty of Health Sciences, which, on the one hand, in view of the poorly prepared text of the law, also showed that the Ministry of Health could have escaped the State Assembly in 2007, so in March 2007, by decree, set up this university and that this university in Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u244	Thank you. Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the government, honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we support the novelty because it mainly means aligning with the EU Directive, which regulates the recognition of professional qualifications and consequently makes it easier to provide occasional health services. Given that we face a shortage of health workers in Slovenia, it will be easier to register or obtain permits to provide occasional health care services to healthcare workers from EU Member States, the European Economic Area and Switzerland, while making it easier for us to obtain experts from other countries who will be able to contribute to the development of health services in Slovenia. Of course, there is a question and a dilemma as to whether a full application is sufficient to allow individual healthcare professionals from other countries to provide occasional health services. However, we are of course considering the possibility of misuse and falsification of documents or certificates obtained abroad, but we believe that it is necessary to rely on the professional treatment of submitted applications at the Ministry of Health, which, on the basis of a complete application, will temporarily be entered in the register of registered health service providers. In this regard, it is also important to keep in mind the attached information on insurance coverage relating to professional liability and the indication of data relating to the status of the individual in the Member State from which it comes. Amendments and amendments to the law are therefore necessary, not for the sake of compliance with the European Directive, but also for Slovenia the possibility of new employment of professional staff from Europe. In doing so, we all expect that occasional health workers will carry out their work according to the principles of medical ethics and will follow the oath of Hippocrates, which must be carried out by all doctors, regardless of which country they have obtained their doctoral degree. We also support an amendment that provides the possibility of obtaining a title, clinic, clinical institute or clinical department, including individual departments of higher education institutions providing health services. As we say, in the New Slovenia Group we will vote in favour of the novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u247	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Mr Secretary of State, this time with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act. We believe that certain issues need to be adequately complemented, not only in order to comply with the European Union Directive, but also in the light of a simple fact, because, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are improving the health situation in some of the areas that you have already mentioned in your colleagues' views. We are primarily talking about a professional healthcare professional who is not with us, as we all know and is lacking. We believe that the amendment of the Health Act, as envisaged, could significantly help to address the problem of employment in health care, as more professional staff, both medical personnel, doctors and other health workers, would be available in our hospitals and health institutions. This would also improve the basic treatment conditions for patients, as health professionals from other countries could start to provide occasional and occasional health services on the basis of a full application at the Ministry of Health. Exceptions to the process of recognition of professional qualifications are professions that have an impact on human health or safety, which is in itself reasonable. That is why we also agree with this and such a solution in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The draft law also extends health activities at tertiary level, as different titles can also be obtained after the implementation of the amendments to the law by individual departments of higher education institutions providing these services. We believe that this solution is appropriate because it is the higher education institutions that are carrying out important research activities that make an important contribution to the efficiency of health activities. This allows health services to be provided at all levels of health care. Some other solutions brought by law are more technical in nature. For example: harmonising the bill with the Law on Offences. As I have already said, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group agree with the proposed law, as it provides simpler and more economical procedures and transparency regarding the application of health activities, and thus clearly benefits our health labour market, which has long been facing a lack of adequate labour in a wide range of areas. In the final stages, patients are the ones who feel this lack the most. We believe that the proposed amendments have further improved the bill and will contribute to a more appropriate and better solution to the particular problem facing our health care. As we say, Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u248	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u249	Dear Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. Members and Members of Parliament. We support the amendment of the Health Act in its entire substantive theme. Above all, I will limit myself to two, two new things that I would like to say a few words about. The first is a change relating to the expansion of the provision of certain health services, including the tertiary level, which means that we have the possibility of granting status names: clinics, clinical institutes, clinical departments also to certain higher education institutions or institutes in the field of health and pharmaceuticals. The proposed regulation is geared towards the benefits and greater potential for the advancement of medicine and pharmaceuticals, the resolution of the health employment problem, and it can also relieve excessive work in some areas in these institutes or institutes. Well, that's what we support. The second is what I have actually heard so far and I would like to tell you in the beginning a completely practical example to understand better. For the first time, I don't know if you've seen well that it says that it's "the occasional and occasional provision of health services, health workers from the countries of the European Union, Switzerland and the European Economic Area". Mr Secretary and I worked on the same department and 200 meters away, across the border there is an Italian hospital. If we wanted to go there and do anything, if we were invited, we said we'd be happy to do it again and again. But there has always been a question with us, but what are the legal standards now, what if something happens, what is our professional, material and criminal responsibility in the event of an intervention on a foreign national on that side of the border? I think that with regard to this novelty, or even with the collapse of the border, or with the common European space when it does not exist, and now that we are harmonising European legal standards in the field of medicine or in the field of health, these matters will no longer be brought into line. However, they will be able to arrange that those who want to occasionally be a healthcare professional should also be a senior nurse who wishes to provide occasional or occasional health care in accordance with EU directives, if he comes to our country, he will also have to have certain paths. The Ministry of Health, the competent chamber and, of course, all the information he will have to give about his profession and his work so far. If we say the Ministry of Health, then I believe that it will not only be an application and perhaps also an application without a picture or without any data, but that it will be a report that will also be verified and serious. I think that's what the Ministry of Health thought. The other thing is, it's a matter of the chamber. The chamber also has its responsibilities, its responsibilities, and it also needs to check on this, say, when there was a lot of talk about nurses. And thirdly, after all, there is a certain hierarchy in the regulated health service. It would be hard to say that I have a doctor in my department or a nurse and that the second day or the third day I don't find out that she's not a nurse and that she's not doing her job. The question of language may be of some concern to me. This applies only to the EU, indeed, even in other countries, if our nurse goes to France or Germany, this does not apply to the standards that we have adopted. I would say this if someone had the will to learn quickly and without the knowledge of the language, a nurse would not be able to carry on her profession. I know a doctor from abroad who also came to our hospital, she was a graduate doctor, she graduated from medical school, she got a job on the language in the patient's admission team, she bathed patients, she learned Slovenian in a few months and continued her specialization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! A lot of truths have been said on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health Act, and even the most true has been said by my distinguished colleague, Mr Klavor. How can a doctor be from the EU or from countries that are not in the EU understand pain, suffering, problems of a patient? It's incomprehensible to me, but it's a basic condition. Another important question that comes to us in the Slovenian National Party is whether there is really such a difference between a doctor from Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary or health workers that I will not talk about doctors from Serbia. The question is, who do you trust more, who understands you better? The people who come from Belgrade need to make a nostration, the people who come from EU countries will follow the procedures that have been defined to become doctors. Difficult questions that require precise answers from ministries. But on the other hand, in particular in our local community, we have tendered two concessions for a general health activity that no doctor has applied for, believe it or not. I would like to see doctors who work in a health care home who have done so finish their college in Ljubljana or Maribor, who are of Slovenian descent and would be happy to grant them a concession, but not interested. And people have been waiting since four o'clock in the morning in rows. And they're in the doctor's office, and they're really sick, like, 12 or 13 or 14. That's another problem. And we don't have doctors. This law, whatever the case, gives an opportunity and allows someone from the European Union to work more quickly and easily. If we say, well, because the doctors are missing, some will say, yes, look what you're doing, it comes from Slovakia, it doesn't speak Slovenian, it's a doctor, because he doesn't listen to what the patient or sister is, let's leave, whatever. If we say that we are against this proposal of a law that allows public health to happen faster, people will come to a doctor when they need help, but not to wait three days, everything will go wrong again. What of all this said and said is only that - yes, I am not talking about this mandate or the previous or the previous one, we are doing everything on "ad hoc", on our mind, on the basis of time and in length and only that it will be. I remember in the previous term how much we fought for the University of Maribor. I think now is the time for these results of this college to start counting and seeing, but no one cares what's going on there. Nobody cares how fast we go. It is a very difficult decision, especially if you read paragraph 24.a. And especially if you read the provisions on the extension of health activities at tertiary level or at all, who among us knows, honestly ask what it is? Who performs tertiary activities in health care in the country of the Republic of Slovenia? Three hospitals: Clinical Center, Maribor, and I think it's on Golnik. It is an educational activity, it is a research activity, it is the hardest and most difficult medical work and let us read Article 1, Article 24.a. It's not easy to make decisions about this law. I understand and the Slovenian National Party understands the desire, the desire of the Ministry of Health to solve the problem, which is very hot in the Slovenian space. But, you know, things just can't go that easy. I'm saying it again. We're in a dilemma. We respect the effort to change something, but to change it just like that, over and over and over and over, and to separate - this is the most disturbing for me - excellent doctors coming from countries outside the European Union, compared to doctors from the European Union, some have some advantages, others do not. And last but not least, ours will turn against us all because they themselves do not want to work when we ask them. Thus, in the Slovenian National Party we will listen carefully to any further interpretation on this side, or I will personally decide on my own conscience how, as well as my two colleagues in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u252	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On behalf of the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the Council of the European Union and the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President and the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the President of the The proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum was submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti. I give the text to the proposer for further explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u253	Halla beautiful, Mr. President. We have before us the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. The fact is that this is the only instrument the neighbouring Croatia is afraid of. Unfortunately, Croatia also has supporters on our side. Instead of taking care of our country, of the integrity of the Republic of Slovenia, of its sovereignty, of its inviolability and of its benefits, the vast majority of politicians and Members of the National Assembly are more likely to show ourselves beautiful towards Croatia and humble towards the European Union. On 21 February this year, the Financial Times published a major article when Mrs Angela Merkl, the head of one of the most powerful or most powerful European Union countries, announced that she would require a ban on entering the Schengen area to the small state of Liechtenstein because Liechtenstein did not want to provide data on bank accounts in its country. Germany put the ultimatum on Liechtenstein just for that. Slovenia does not hope to set up an ultimatum for Croatia, but does not ultimatum, Slovenia does not hope to ask its citizens whether they have taken us into the European Union, but Croatia is hitting us day after day after day - they are tearing down our weekends, confiscating all kinds of houses of Slovenian companies, confiscating us and stealing our brewery, debts that are terribly high, they do not want to pay us back, waste from the nuclear power plant does not come to their senses, they take only electricity and require half of the nuclear power plants to invest in any fund for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants, they do not come to their senses. Documents signed both by them and by our side do not apply to them. The hour they were signed, the next day they are no longer valid, because the next policy says, "I didn't sign it and I don't care, but I've arranged so much less." You cannot negotiate with Croatia and, unfortunately, respected colleagues and colleagues here, you do not know history. You do not know that the main sin is that Croatia is, in fact, such that no denunciation of this country has occurred. After World War II, because Croatia was a faithful'supporter2' and an ally of Nazi Germany, that it sent its slaughterhouses across Europe to commit crimes, it was also rewarded by the fact that no one had interfered with their internal affairs and tried to clear up these matters after the second war. Today, Europe, because of its own interest, does not want to do anything. They mainly support Croatia, Germany and Austria, with which the allies were already together during World War II. And from those days, that German saying, "Drang nach Adria."which they intend to implement now that we want Croatia as soon as possible, 'a la carte', into the European Union. Slovenia has a unique opportunity to ask citizens what they think about it, not politics. The politicians are few of us who are eager enough to say that Croatia is not worthy of entry into the European Union and that it is not mature to enter and that its development is not at a completely higher level than development in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro or Albania. That is why the question that we have asked - we expect it to be accepted, but I doubt it, unfortunately, but now we have a historic opportunity. We'll probably miss her.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u254	Thank you. The proposal for a consultative referendum was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovšk, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 34th meeting, on 21 February, on the basis of Rule 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union submitted for consideration by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. The representative of the proponent Victory Jelinčič Plmeniti explained that the Republic of Croatia, with its unilateral political moves, aggressive policy towards Slovenia and interference with Slovenia's sovereignty, proves that it does not respect and intends to respect the principles of international action. Slovenia should insist that Croatia resolve all open issues with Slovenia before joining the EU. The Slovenian National Party's Group advocates the view that Croatia should come to the European Union together with the other Western Balkan countries, namely, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania, so that they are ready to adopt a European acquis. In accordance with Article 26 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the SNS Group proposes a call for an advisory referendum on the basis of which Slovenian citizens and citizens can also express their agreement or disagreement with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined that proposal under Article 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, was presented by mag. Just a corner. He said that the word link "Croatia's entry into the European Union" should be replaced by the word "accession to the European Union", which is the established terminology in the consultation referendum, the issue must refer to the National Assembly and not to the Republic of Slovenia as such. The referendum question should therefore be asked whether the National Assembly should order the Government to condition Croatia's accession under certain clearly stated circumstances within its foreign policy or policy of action within the European Union. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also stressed that the use of the word'self' in the proposed referendum question was not sufficiently specific, which would require that the issue be completed. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for an Advisory Referendum was presented by Andrej Šter, State Secretary. He said that the Republic of Croatia is currently in the process of negotiating with the European Union to take over and implement the acquis of the European Union. To date, Croatia has temporarily closed two of the 35 negotiating chapters. Croatia has not yet met the formal conditions for membership in the European Union and the question of its autonomous approach to the European Union is therefore premature. The Secretary of State said that this issue would arise when Croatia fulfils the conditions for membership and the period of coordination and signature of the entry contract will be set. He added that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is striving to resolve all open issues with Croatia through dialogue in accordance with what is said to be good neighbourly relations and cooperation. The European Union's membership perspective for the Republic of Croatia, however, is a positive incentive for resolving open issues with neighbouring countries. In the debate that followed, Members presented their views, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti expressed his disagreement with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, Member Aurelio Juri of the Social Democrats presented the position of the Group of Social Democrats, who does not support the proposal for an advisory referendum, which is contrary to the interests of Slovenia and contrary to European practice. The president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Jožef Jerovšek, presented the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which joins the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, stressing that the process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union will continue and that the referendum in question would take an important lever at the moment rather than Slovenia in resolving the open issues between Slovenia and Croatia. The Committee on Foreign Policy believes that the proposal - I must say that we have voted on the opinion that has been said: the Committee on Foreign Policy considers that the proposal for an advisory referendum is not appropriate. The proposed opinion was voted on by the majority of the members of the Committee, against one. So that is the view that we convey to this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u256	Mr Jožef Jerovšek, I apologize, but at the same time I invite you to remain in front of the speaker and present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u257	Thank you very much again. Mr President, there was no need for an apology. If there's a little lapsus in the name, it's no problem. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We will not support the Slovenian National Party's proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. A referendum with a question as formulated as proposed by the Slovenian National Party, in our view at this time not only is it not appropriate and not necessary, but as such could also have serious adverse consequences because it would undermine the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia agrees with the extension to the countries of the former Yugoslavia, which is in the strategic interest of Slovenia, of course taking into account the criteria for entry and monitoring compliance with these criteria. We agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the referendum issue as set out is not clearly and appropriately designed, as it does not meet the requirement for a precise determination of the content of the issue which would allow voters to express their free will clearly, but rather a suggestionable question with hypothetical subttopes, which is unacceptable from a procedural and business perspective. Croatia has not yet met the formal conditions for EU membership and the question of its independent approach to the EU is therefore premature. This issue will arise when Croatia fulfils the conditions for membership and the period of coordination and signature of the entry contract will be set. The process of approaching the Republic of Croatia will undoubtedly be a long time and if Croatia takes the advantage it currently has over other countries, it will be its responsibility. The development of the ecological fishing zone by delaying the decision that this zone does not apply to European Union countries, as the Republic of Croatia once did, shows that the Republic of Croatia has not shown much interest in rapid progress in negotiations with the European Union in recent years. I must say that the best formulation concerning the ecological fishing zone, which is the problem of the advancement of the Republic of Croatia, was said by the Italian Ambassador, who said: "The starting point for the talks on the ecological fishing zone is its suspension." With the proposal to call for an advisory referendum, as before us today, Croatia would virtually take away the possibility of correcting its behaviour towards the European Union as well as the Republic of Slovenia. Nevertheless, in recent times we can see that even in high places within Croatian politics, they are increasingly aware that the European Union has set principles, values, standards that need to be respected. Slovenia is striving to resolve all open bilateral issues with Croatia through dialogue, and it is necessary to say that the issue of the ecological fisheries zone is not a bilateral issue, but is a question on the European Union - Republic of Croatia. The perspective of membership in the European Union for the Republic of Croatia should, however, be a positive incentive to resolve open issues with the neighbouring country. Therefore, as I have already said, the proposal for a referendum will not be supported by our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u258	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we oppose the proposal of the Slovenian National Party to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. However, we also agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, in particular in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, and is justifiably rejected. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that such a referendum would also be unacceptable and inappropriate, even in terms of the wider interests of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the proposal is certainly highly premature and populist and is aimed at some other objectives. Almost certainly Croatia will not become a full member of the European Union for many years. So far, it has managed to temporarily close only two negotiating chapters of the 35th. For the time being, it has only candidate status, i.e. the same status as Turkey, for example. The candidate status does not in itself mean that the State will be admitted to membership in due course or that it will become a member at all. Norway, for example, already had candidate status and did not join the European Union because its citizens refused to do so at the referendum. There has been no referendum in any Member State so far concerning the consent of this country to join the European Union of a third candidate country. Such a referendum could make relations between Slovenia and Croatia worse and further delay the solution to other issues of dispute, which Slovenia is very interested in. It is in our interest that Croatia fulfils a number of difficult conditions regarding the takeover and enforcement of the acquis of the European Union. Let me just mention the reforms of public administration, justice, internal affairs and the police, which are essential for the establishment and effectiveness of the rule of law. The visible adjustment and obstruction of Croatia's approach to European Union standards is not in our interest and will poison relations with the neighbouring country, strengthen the anti-Slovenian atmosphere and propaganda in Croatia and delay for a long time the regulation of all remaining outstanding cases relating to the legal legacy of the former SFRY. Let me just mention the interstate border at sea and on land, the further fate of the nuclear plant and so on. Such bargaining would also harm the interests of the Slovenian economy, as well as the interests of many Slovenian real estate owners in Croatia. Surely such a referendum would be an important precedent and a poor example for others. However, Slovenia would be lying in view of its previous advocacy for the continuation of the enlargement process of the European Union and its commitment to gradually move external borders or the so-called Schengen borders towards the south-east of Europe. Therefore, the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors for a referendum for the Group of Social Democrats is unacceptable, both in terms of our legal order and in terms of the wider interests of the Republic of Slovenia as full-fledged members of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Croatia's path to the European Union is certainly not through a referendum, but through the accession negotiations that Croatia and the European Union still have to pursue. From this point of view, it is necessary to say that, at this point in time, if I have the right record in front of me, the temporary two chapters have been closed, 16 have been opened since the 35th, and from this point of view this path is still relatively long and uncertain for Croatia to enter the Union, and it is certainly going through the term of this national assembly. From this point of view, it seems incorrect to me that we are making an impression here that this national assembly must decide on these matters at this moment, because this issue will be a real issue on the agenda later. If we leave here the concern that it has never been disputed that in Slovenia's interest to extend the European Union to Croatia and to other countries, to say to our people more clearly, the countries of the former Yugoslavia seem to me to be in some way inappropriate to instil their finger on this journey to the Union, a referendum awaits you, and this referendum is linked to practically those issues which the Slovenian State should mostly resolve in bilateral agreements with Croatia and cannot be practically linked to these accession negotiations. We have heard here today that the SNS proposal is intended to verify the rubble between Slovenian policies. That's, I'll say, an extremely unusual claim. What does it have to say is that there is a corruption here to make decisions concerning the rational opinion of what kind of community of countries we want to live in. I predict and conclude that, in fact, it is perfectly normal for everyone here to make decisions based on their conscience and not in any way in fear of anyone. From this point of view, this issue is something that speaks of not actually wanting to talk about this being a test of understanding the negotiating mechanism. And this test assumes that it is necessary to know that this mechanism of accession negotiations requires the fulfilment of the criteria, the most diverse, and only at the end of the process of adoption. That is why I am moved to tell my colleagues from the National Party that I would also like to identify myself before their next initiative for a referendum, which we can expect in a short time about where we will hear two, three revised words. For these premature referendums, I think it is necessary to make a negative decision, because the referendum must, in the end, be in spite of all the tools worth considering. To say at this point that he's never fit, I think it's inappropriate to use him at this point, and I'll say, not smart.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u262	Thank you. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u263	Nicely greeted! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal states that the Republic of Croatia, with unilateral political moves, aggressive policy towards our country and interference with our sovereignty, has consistently demonstrated that it does not respect the principles of international action. This can be agreed upon. We can also agree that Slovenia should insist that a non-member of the Republic of Croatia resolve open issues with the Republic of Slovenia or with our country before its full membership. However, the Slovenian state should insist on meeting the conditions which must by no means be detrimental to our country. And what will the consultative referendum contribute to this solution, as I say? Nothing. In fact, it will only weaken the negotiating positions of our country. Let us look at two possible outcomes of the referendum, what they will mean to our negotiators. If the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia reject the proposal that the Republic of Slovenia agree to the independent entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, then the State of Slovenia, and hence the Government, will in no case be able to give consent to the EU, the first competent National Assembly, even if Croatia fulfils all the conditions and any more to join the Union. This would give Slovenia a lot of problems, tied hands and a lack of seriousness in international circles. However, the referendum decisions should be kept in absolute terms by the representatives of the State and those who decide to do so without the possibility of an alternative. However, if the citizens decide to give the Republic of Slovenia their consent to Croatia's independent entry into the European Union, the negotiators will have their hands tied again because they will have to give their consent at the time of entry, regardless of what Croatia will do, how it will meet the conditions and what else it will do. As you can see, any referendum decision weakens our country's negotiating positions, so the referendum is unnecessary and is not useful for our country. Finally, there is a well-founded assumption that Croatia is in fact not to be included in the European Union at all. And why would we support proposals that weaken Slovenia's negotiating positions? The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect first and foremost from negotiators, from politicians a firm and firm word, not servility and not to translate those decisions that the policy must make into citizens. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will not support the Proposal for a consultative referendum on Croatia's integration into the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u265	The President. Dear Members. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and do not oppose its individual treatment, while stressing that Croatia must solve all open issues with its neighbours, including Slovenia, before that. We agree that our country's positions must be strong and must be based on facts, while we stress the need to invest all our energy in resolving disputes in a negotiated and diplomatic manner, that is certainly in the interests of both sides. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not oppose the individual treatment of the Republic of Croatia at the time of entry into the European Union, but point out that, on condition that we resolve open issues. In the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the proposed consultation referendum when the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union, we can read that since October 2005, Croatia has opened 16 negotiating chapters since its entry into the European Union since October 2005 and two have been provisionally closed. In order to enter the EU, it must thus close the remaining chapters. Since Croatia does not yet meet the conditions for entry into the European Union and is still in the negotiating phase, we believe that the referendum on this subject is a premature move; a move that would weaken our neighbourly relations. We also agree with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which says that the implementation of Slovenia's foreign policy and the functioning of the EU is primarily within the power of the Government. The consultation referendum cannot therefore directly relate to the operation and decision-making of the Republic of Slovenia in external matters or within the EU framework. It can only apply to a decision taken by the National Assembly. We also do not think it appropriate for Croatia to join the European Union together with the other Western Balkan countries. Despite the conflicts, we must keep our heads sober and acknowledge that there are great differences between these countries and that it would be bad for us to deliberately stop Croatia from entering the European Union. We stress our desire to have peaceful and clean relations with our neighbors. The previous referendum of this kind seems premature and the pouring of oil on fire. Croatia is in the negotiating phase and does not yet meet the conditions for entry into the European Union. Let us remember that before entry, each future Member State must close all negotiating chapters. Therefore, in our view, the referendum is not the right solution and would only fuel sensitive relations that cannot be denied. However, we must allow the Government and the European Union to carry out accession negotiations in a peaceful and diplomatic manner with the Republic of Croatia. We are part of the European Union, and we know that our negotiations for entry have also been a difficult and long-term process, and we have often had to accept compromises. We want Croatia's accession negotiations to the EU to end as soon as possible, as this will also move forward in the resolution of our unresolved problems with the Republic of Croatia. Members of the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the People's Party believe that the consultation referendum on Croatia's entry into the EU is not appropriate and means a premature and not well thought out move. This would only further aggravate our neighbourly relations and create unnecessary friction between the two countries. That is why we have decided not to support this proposal. We will support the Government in its efforts to resolve the disputed problems between the two countries, of course taking into account Slovenian national interests, and once again stress that it is a shame that we have not adopted resolutions here in Parliament on the resolution of open issues with the Republic of Croatia, which would be a good basis for equal negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u266	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u267	Respectable. It is actually difficult to talk rationally about such an irrational proposal or provocative proposal. The proposal is its own purpose or the Slovenian National Party for its own purpose. But we cannot be without words, because we really believe that it is necessary to distance ourselves deeply from the message that this proposal of the Slovenian National Party brings. The proposal, however, suggests an unacceptable reaction by Slovenia to the use of an advisory referendum on what should and should not be attributed to our neighbours. The message you are bringing is that Croatia, as we have heard, is not mature to enter the European Union, that it has nothing to look for in the European Union, that it has nothing to look for among the developed and that it is not, in fact, a decent neighbour. This is your message: because it is not a decent neighbour because it is not developed and so on, and we Slovenians must prevent this from passing the rules and past the procedures and beyond the conditions applicable to joining the European Union of any country. As I say, it is provocative, not to say, a rude proposal, which, of course, has nothing noble in it, and of course we will not support it. It can cause impatience, it can cause tension, it can cause discomfort, and it can ultimately cause hatred that we do not need, need not, and do not want. Would Mr. Jelinčič also stumble your neighbor if you weren't right or just because he's your neighbor and he doesn't like something about him? In short, it has already been heard in today's debate that such a discussion can open up questions about servility, about hard words, about non-tribal neighbourly relations and the last thing is that Slovenia can afford it. If not otherwise, Mr Jelinčič, on behalf of the one we have buried today, who has never used such terminology and which, after all, you have acknowledged to him the nobility of this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u269	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Our consultative group on Croatia's accession to the European Union will not support the consultation referendum. The reasons are as follows. Given how our neighbour treats European standards, we believe that its approach is an issue that will be resolved in some medium-term future regardless of the views of the Republic of Slovenia. Accession negotiations are going slowly, perhaps even on purpose, because the individual actions of our neighbour are forcing us to think that this country does not want to join the European Union at least quickly. On the other hand, the early decision on the possible referendum on this subject could lead to serious additional problems for the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the neighbour, which is not good. The integration of the Republic of Croatia into the EU would, on the other hand, address unresolved border issues, which will no longer exist and at the same time commit the neighbouring country to respect European standards and good behaviour. Finally, the proposal is opposed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, rejected by all parliamentary groups, except for the proposal, and finally rejected as a very reliable coalition party, since no coalition party supports this referendum, nor will ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will certainly support this referendum in the Slovenian National Party, which is logical. However, we are disturbed by such a large nonchalant of other parliamentary groups to have Croatians steal our sea. The fact is that Croatia has never had the whole Adriatic Sea, but has simply usurped it and occupied it after our own self-sustaining war. A fraudulent and false Europe, which has promised an international peace conference on the former Yugoslavia, has failed to do so. Europe is lying, the European Union is lying to itself. It has also shown this by the recognition of Kosovo. The fact is, they're only interested in their own benefit, their own earnings, and nothing else. I am therefore, on the one hand, shocked by the statements made by some colleagues when it comes to deep distances from messages and similar matters. This reminds me of that time of our own self-sustaining war, when some of the same party signed a white charter to cast on the tanks of the Yugoslav People's Army roses, and sewed white cloth together, so that they would be as large as possible to wave and then those soldiers would not rape them at the first moment or maybe even rape them at the first moment. Of course I'm glad for something. In the opinion of the Government, the Secretary, Mr Šter, said that the issue, as proposed by the proposal for a referendum in our opinion, is premature at this point. Very good. This is said not to be the wrong question of the referendum, but it is possible that the timing is a bit flawed. I also like the opinion of the Social Democratic Party, which reiterated this opinion. That is to say, this moment of referendum may not be the right moment to expose it, but it will certainly be the right moment later. The point is, we have to clean these things up, open them up, and see what they're like. Hiding behind some former systems of fraternity and unity, which are filled primarily by two parliamentary groups, really and the Social Democrats, will not lead us far. Indeed, the times of that joint stay within and under the auspices of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia have passed. It's gone. That was the case, and it will be no more, and some may wish for it. The fact is, we are said to be an independent and sovereign state, but we certainly would not have been if we had already had more power at that time, some of whom today are so strongly defending the Croats. I am sure that in this case that plan on the confederation between Slovenia and Croatia would be implemented. Thank God it's not today, and that's why we need to take care of our interests. If we do not take care of our interests, be sure that Croatia will not help us. And not only Croatia, from the north Haider intervenes in our country, from the west Lachs invade our country, Croatia has already stolen a large part of Slovenia, but we will probably be in some mini landscape with size, what I know, 42,000 people, because everything else will be another province, we will reign and we will be happy to have at least that. Once, people fought for their homeland, gave their lives, gave them things. You don't give a damn about most people today. I'm ashamed of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u272	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, that is, at 18.25. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u273	Dear Members and Members! We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the draft law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held assets, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 6. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm only gonna stop by once because I think it's a shame, not you, but myself, to repeat things I've been explaining all morning. And because I firmly believe it won't help anything, because your blindness is perfect. It is a shame that we will adopt a law that will even more distinguish people from the right and wrongs that will cause additional injustices, which will allow them to be politically, suggest or, with political will, force administrative and judicial workers to accept, within a short period of time, solutions that have not been able to regulate the complicated legislation adopted so far, and that there is no willingness to solve the problems of anyone else who has been wronged by law. And when, I hope, we rejected and proved such claims, it did not seem worth trying to contradict our claim to the Minister, who listened to us for a while. This National Assembly, this opposition is not worth one word in such an important way, I claim the ideological law that this government has again drawn up. Imagine, I do not claim, and I do not hope that you will change your position, but I think we are doing harm to the National Assembly and Slovenia. I will support these and similar amendments, and in the end, we will vote against the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support all amendments that try to improve, although bad, short-term and incomplete law. Of course, 17 years of agonizing denationalisation will receive a few more years with this law. This is, as colleagues have warned, a procedural law that will undoubtedly have concrete, substantive implications for the country's budget, the budgets of local communities and the injustices of our grandfathers will also be paid by our grandchildren and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We will support all the amendments tabled in the Slovenian National Party. If they're accepted, we'll support the marriage. We doubt, however, that the amendments will be adopted and that is why we will oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u280	Thank you very much. The Group of Members will support all amendments that seek to amend the law, the only purpose of which is to quickly process and easily acquire the assets of those who are not entitled to it. In fact, we are convinced that all the procedures that are being carried out so long after the adoption of the Denationalisation Act are such that they raise a great question as to the eligibility of those who demand the "return of property" in the notes, and in this sense, this law is one which, by violence against the legal profession, cannot solve this for a long time because of complexity, requires the courts, for example, to resolve matters within a record time frame. This requirement for the courts to resolve these matters quickly will further delay the resolution of those cases in judicial arrears that may take as long as those claims before the courts. As a result, we think that such a solution is extremely poor, the amendments try to mitigate to some extent the intent of the law, which is tenuous and unfair to the matter itself, and therefore we support the amendments, but we will not support the law unless the amendments are adopted. And we think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members called Lipa, we will support the amendments. If the amendments are not supported, we will not support the Act on the completion of the procedures for the return of held assets. The law itself, such as it is, is unjust; it is unjust to people who have invested in good faith in their property. I do not distinguish between investment and emergency maintenance, at least when it comes to those necessary adjustments, because, in our opinion, any necessary investment maintenance at the same time also results in an increase in the value of each property. So if she leaves the roof, we fix it, she's a new roof, so the property is worth more. And these amendments, these injustices that this government has conceived toward these people, are simply being corrected. Criminal laws, but we won't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u283	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that 72 Members and Members voted for 32 to 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors for the new paragraphs 6a and 6b. We're voting. I note that 72 Members and Members voted for 32 to 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I therefore note that the amendment has not been adopted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 7. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour, 32 against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 8. Mr Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. While we have supported all these amendments, similar in hope, in the empty hope that they will, of course, be supported - they were not. Here is another amendment tabled by the Zares Group; I will not explain it in any more detail, you need to understand it, it is simple, clear and it is completely logical to continue or supplement this Article 8 and, if you do not accept it, you will, with an 8th Article, such as, briefly, simply and rigorously, allow an additional unjustifiable asset benefit, a benefit that has not come from the denationalisation or nationalisation process itself, but from land developments after nationalisation. Therefore, of course, such an amendment is necessary and, of course, prevents, I would say, additional property exploitation, against which you are all, in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended draft law in the second reading were not adopted, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 41, for 31. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Aid under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which are substantively linked. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 6. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to Articles 10 and 22. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 10 and 22 shall become irrelevant. Mr Miran Potč, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u286	Suggested [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u287	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I said wrong. I said SDS - SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the content would be noticeable. With the proposed amendments, we wanted, in line with the Government's starting points, to ensure that the cost of operating free legal aid could be reduced and that the criteria for not being eligible for free legal aid would be set out to ensure that civil society organisations which Vada has awarded concessions would be able to carry out free first aid so far, for a new first legal aid payment. I think that the proposals are justified in order to facilitate the work of the courts in order to reduce the functioning of the State for this purpose, and I hope to say that they would also ensure the necessary expertise and up-to-date in operation. If there are any problems and one of the only issues we have encountered in the debate is whether applicants for legal aid would be adequately secured against compensation in case of bad work. We have found that we could arrange this if only it were a wish, but the Government has not shown such a desire and the coalition has also voted against such a proposal. We propose one more thought. Because it is only a proposal that builds or builds on the objectives and desires defined by the Government. This is not an objection to the proposal, but a complement to it. It is true, however, that we are confident that if these supplements are not accepted, the goals set by the Government will not be met. There will be no simplification, there will be no less work and there will be no appreciation for the operation and then the law will lose its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u289	Thank you very much. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted in favour, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This makes the amendments to Articles 10 and 22 irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 13. This is linked to the amendments to Article 14. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 14 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted in favour of 30 votes to 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It is said that the amendment to Article 14 is irrelevant. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr President, for the record! The amendment to Article 13 was adopted in second reading at the home work body, i.e. the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, extended the powers of persons who, without the aim of profit-making, carry out the activity of free legal assistance in the consent of the Minister responsible for justice from the first legal advice referred to in Article 25 to the legal advice of Article 26. However, in addition to the legal advice provided in the first indent of Article 26(1), Article 26 also contains legal representation. This resulted in a discrepancy between Articles 26 and 29 of the Law on free legal aid, as it is not clear which form of free legal aid is entrusted to persons who, without the purpose of profit-making, carry out a free legal aid activity with the consent of the Minister responsible for justice. The proposed harmonisation amendment removes this discrepancy between Articles 26 and 29 by clearly specifying which form of free legal aid these persons are entitled to. That is why the Government has prepared this proposal of the harmonisation amendment, which is what it would have been expected to do if it were allowed, to quote. The amendment to Article 13 shall be inserted in the first sentence of paragraph 29 of Article 29 for the word "consultation from" in the words "first indent of the first paragraph". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended second-reading law were not adopted, the amendments to the third reading cannot be tabled. Since the proposal for a law due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 13 which you are currently receiving on the bench. To keep the work going, you'll have so much time to look at this harmonisation amendment. The representative of the government has also said his own and the presentation of this. Now I'm asking, do Members and Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. I'll wait another minute or two or three for you to see this amendment so it won't be too soon. Then we'll move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 12. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts is suitable for further consideration. Mrs. Beblereva, you have the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u292	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Group of the Social Democrats of this Decision will not support this because, in our view, it is an unthinkable change. Some of them are even harmful because it is an intervention and unjustifiable strengthening of the executive branch, in contrast to the judicial branches of power. This is an unjustified reinforcement of the role of the Ministry of Justice or of the Minister, it is an ignorant attitude towards the protection of privacy and the protection of personal data and it is an attempt to manipulate the court with regard to the allocation of a particular case to a particular judge. In this respect, the proposal for a novel is moving away from the standards that apply in democratic Europe in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u293	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Having adopted the proposed decision, the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice for a second reading, as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health Act, following a reduced procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 71 votes in favour, with 71 votes in favour, 58 against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I'll read it again, please. 71 Members and Members voted in favour, 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item on the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union is open. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal, you have the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of talk about this referendum, and I think there has also been enough interference by some of the parties who fought over Dragons and fell into the water years ago, and today they are against doing anything in this area. After all, the elections will be short and we can expect more scrambling down the coast. They may no longer swim in parliamentary waters at that time, but let's leave. Maybe the new President Shrott will help them. I wish them all the best. The matter that we are deciding today is not so innocent at all. It's a very important matter. It is particularly important to open up certain resources of thought and to adopt certain conclusions in order to establish certain matters. Above all, to begin to think that Slovenia has always been kneeling before Croatia and before the European Union. That it is now necessary to put an end to this and to pursue our own interests. Once again, we will vote in favour, and I know what I can expect from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u295	Thank you very much. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Procedural question: Can you, Mr President, repeat what we decide? Are we deciding on a negative decision? Please repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-26-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u297	I think I've been very clear and I've been reading the whole thing, but I'm going to read it again. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union is open. Understand? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We'll compare the magnetogram. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 62. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
