ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that the following Members and Members of Parliament are unable to attend the work or all of today's meeting: colleague Anton Anderlič, colleague Samo Bevk, colleague Ljubo Germić, colleague of Feri Horvat, Kristijan Janc, Bojan Kontič, Drago Koren, Member of Darja Lavtišar Bebler, Member of Anton Rop, Mitja Slavinec, Bosnian Zagorac from 3 p.m. on, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš from 2.30 p.m., Ambassador Maria Possonec, Ambassador Breda Pecan from 2.30 p.m. and Ambassador Roberto Battelli. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the System of Payments in the Public Sector. We have 3 hours and 45 minutes of debate available for this item. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to Mr Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration, for an introductory explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members, good morning, good afternoon! You have before you the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which is the last step before the implementation of the public sector wage reform, to conclude the reform that has been going on since 2002. So, after six years of intense, long-standing negotiations, we are coming to an end and we are predicting the establishment of a new pay system with September. The Public Sector Collective Treaty is expected to be signed on 5 June and collective agreements of activities and professions are foreseen on 11 June. Of course, both dates will still be aligned with the unions, but it all shows that these are the key dates when collective agreements are signed and the long story of public sector wage reform is concluded. Thus, all those who have spoken in recent months about the breakdown, fragmentation, breakdown of the wage system in the public sector have apparently kicked hard into the fog. We will succeed, this conclusion of the reform can be described as the victory of reason and the victory of the social partnership, as the new pay system will be created as a result of social dialogue, supported by all public sector unions or at least by almost all public sector unions. In the final stage, as you have seen, the school union initialled its collective agreement. It is true that just before the end, five minutes before the 12th, the reform of the payroll system threatened an intervention that would put one payroll group in a privileged position, that is, the Slovenian Army. All these years of our mandate, we have been careful to ensure that no payroll group in its area law can achieve any solution that would undermine the uniformity of the pay system and create some injustice within the system. This almost happened just before the end, but in the end we also found a reasonable solution in this regard, which does not place the military in a privileged position, while at the same time allowing the behinds, which are present in the military, in relation to other uniformed professions, to say police officers, customs officers, guards to be removed slightly faster than originally envisaged, but not in such a way as to place soldiers in the pay system over police, or customs, or other uniformed professions in the public sector. The content of this law, which you will address today, is partly necessary technical corrections and adjustments in order to make it possible for it to come to life in September. It is a question of how we will pay those public servants who do not have adequate education for their jobs. It provides for a small minimum deduction in such a way that, in principle, the remuneration of two public servants doing the same work, i.e. in the same jobs, will have only a different education due to certain past circumstances, in principle virtually the same. The difference will be for one or two pay grade. That's four or eight percent. The law on the union proposal also regulates the process of testing the performance assessment, which is the main basis for progress in the new system. So the new system no longer progresses by collecting points from participating in seminars, leading project groups, mentoring and the like - and in this system have often prospered those who have had a lot of time for education and little time for work. In the new system, emphasis is placed on the assessment of performance, performance and progress, and a significant part of the salary of a public servant. The law also introduces some flexibility by allowing a staff member to be classified in 5 wage classes higher than the starting wage class when he is first employed. This way we can also get quality people with experience from the economy. And the last sentence - it allows as a backup solution, if not for the signing of all collective agreements, for those who will have signed collective agreements to enter the new pay system so as not to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Public servants, for example, have become hostages of one small group or one union. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I ask my colleague, Dimitri Kovacic, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with a co-worker! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as a parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, said that the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System had been adopted in 2002 and had been amended and supplemented several times over the following years and that, on the basis of it, the payment system had been introduced to directors in the public sector and, as of 1 January 2008, to all officials. Negotiations with representative public sector unions for the conclusion of collective agreements on activities and occupations, or annexes to collective agreements on activities and occupations, whose signature is one of the main conditions for the implementation of the new pay system, are in the final stage. In the course of these final negotiations, it has proved to be necessary to supplement or amend, in some parts of the Public Sector Wages Act, a smooth transition to a new pay system. Therefore, the basic objective of the proposed novel is to allow for a smooth transition to the new pay system. One of the most important solutions to the bill is also the possibility of partial transition to a new pay system, although the applicant estimates that this option will not be necessary, since it foresees that all collective agreements will be signed for activities and occupations. The representative of the proposaler, Dr Virant, also said that the amendments of coalition parliamentary groups eliminate the privileged position of one payroll group and thus ensure the uniformity of the whole system. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in their written opinion were mainly of a nomotechnical nature and also intended to eliminate unclear dictions. Part of the comments contained in their written opinion shall be duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. It noted, however, its comments to Articles 12 and 14 which had not been taken into account and, in this regard, to the non-compliance of the provisions with the constitutional principle of legality. In its debate on individual amendments, it gave a warning regarding the proposed completion of Article 52(1), since the provision was substantially exhausted in 2002 with the implementation of the basic law. It also submitted a note of a nomotechnical nature at the time of the amendment to Article 23. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements. The members of the Committee referred to Article 12 of the draft law, which provides for the possibility for a public servant to be transferred to a different position or title upon appointment to a title or higher by consent to be classified in a salary class which is higher than or higher than the salary class or title for a maximum of five salary classes, if there are reasonable grounds for doing so. This solution expressed certain concerns raised by the Legislative and Legal Service, in order to clarify the criteria for this case of promotion or classification in the wage class. The existence of justified reasons is not sufficiently defined and gives the authorities full discretion in their decision-making. The debate on this article also raised the issue of the need for consensus in the case of a maximum of 5 classes of journalists in the higher pay grade or who should give such consent, since it should be borne in mind that journalists must be guaranteed independence in their work. At the time of the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups by which the agreement for public servants of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, instead of the competent minister, would be given by the programme board of the public institution, the idea was expressed that this solution was not in line with the statutory tasks of the Programme Council. The debate also expressed the view that the proposal was the result of an agreement between the Government and the social partners, which is an important argument in favour of the support of the law. On the basis of the discussion, the Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 8, 10, 11, 12, 15, 20, 22, 23 and 23a and the amendment of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors to Article 22. However, it did not accept the amendments of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors to Articles 8 and 11 and the amendment of Ambassador Majda Shirca to Article 12. Thus, with amendments, the amended law was adopted by the Committee with a majority of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Dear President! Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. We believe that, in fact, after long-term coordination, after which long-term coordination, there has actually been some sort of order, some common denominator. And we believe, especially because we ourselves have had the opportunity to hear that the majority or all of the social partners have in some way agreed and that collective agreements are being signed and that the representative unions of the public sector have actually agreed with the solutions. We believe that this amendment to the law is a major step forward in the public sector wage system. We hope that these last threats, which have been with sentences and some of the changes that have taken place in individual segments, will not break these corrections or this harmonised law in the long term. And we hope that the law will live, that the system will also lead to some trust and satisfaction for those who are employed in public administration. The Slovenian People's Party will support amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Honorable representative of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The new law on the public sector wage system is probably the last before the new wage system is put in place. While the novelty allows for a partial transition to the new pay system this September, it appears that there is a likelihood that a general collective contract for the public sector and collective contracts of activities and professions will be signed in June, as almost the entire public sector has practically completed negotiations. Since the law is a prerequisite for the implementation of the new pay system and because it is at the same time the result of the social agreement between the Government and all the public sector unions, we will really support the law in the Group. Despite our support, however, we must warn the Government that we should not allow for a setback when one payee almost granted a privileged status and disrupted the balance in the system. And we must also warn, because in the Group of Members, we really call for an appropriate regulation of the way in which RTV Slovenia pays journalists, which is still open in the novel. In our view, it was unreasonable that the Government initially provided for the appointment and promotion of RTV employees in Slovenia for the consent of the Minister for Culture or later of the RTV Slovenian Programme Council with the coalition amendment. In our view, such a solution is in conflict with the fundamental function of a public institution which should act independently and without the influence of the authorities. Indeed, we have never defended this law in the Group of Members, and we still do not. However, if it is true, we believe that it must also be respected and regulated in accordance with existing legislation, if it is still so bad. This has already been decided by the Constitutional Court, on one occasion, when it stated that the determination at the level of the institution is in the hands of the management and employees of RTV Slovenia. In this case, in the event of progress, this shall be agreed upon by the Programme Council. Although the government later acknowledged the error it had made at the beginning and, as it was said, the coalition members on the parental committee proposed corrections where consent to move to a second job and to be classified as a higher pay grade would give agreement to the programme council and here we strongly oppose. We have proposed the deletion of this kind of consensus and this has not been accepted, but most have supported the coalition supplement agreed by the Minister, not the Union of Journalists of Slovenia. In our opinion, the RTV Slovenia Programme Council does not have such powers, not in law, not in practice, nor in logic, since it is primarily responsible under the statute and law for the issue of programming guidelines and similar programming, content, conceptual tasks of RTV Slovenia. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will indeed propose that non-constant solutions be withdrawn. We still have an opportunity within the debate on the amendment. We believe that they are prepared in a perfect, fast and unclear way, perhaps even too motivated, interestingly motivated. We know that the programming world is ultimately made up of a majority of those appointed by the authorities, and we want this solution, as it is now given, to be eliminated and this responsibility taken to the programming world. After all, the programme world, as it has been said, has not in the past even wanted to face the acute issue of leaving RTV Slovenia - very correct and good journalists when they themselves launched this session of the programming world and ended this discussion; if I take one of the rare examples of this kind of discussion in the programming world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. The basic law on the public sector wage system has been subject to annual amendment since its adoption in 2002, even this year. The basic intention of this law is to make the pay system more transparent and to eliminate the wage imbalances, but its application is in practice linked to the adoption of a number of sub-laws, collective agreements of which some have already been adopted, which is not applicable to the public sector collective contract. Negotiations between unionists and the government are dragged like the yoke of a snake, and the basic intent of the law is still not realized. Now the signing of the collective agreement is linked to the adoption of the novel, which we are currently considering. At first, the proposal contained quite a number of controversial solutions, which were saved at the meeting of the parent labour body by supplementing the proposal for a new law on the public sector wage system, according to our assessment, and that is why DeSUS Members will also be supported. The amendment also proposes an increase in the starting wage for non-economic activities by 2% and from 243,84 to 248,72 euros. For the same percentage, an increase in wage classes is proposed, a total of 65, so that the basic salaries would range from EUR 472 to EUR 5809 gross. The news also refers to a more detailed definition of jobs and titles, the establishment of the basic salary of the trainee to advance to the pay grade. The most controversial meeting of the working body was the proposal for the promotion of RTV journalists. Although it was initially proposed that the Minister of Culture agree on this, this was corrected mainly because of the direct political impact of such a decision by the Programme Council. Members of the DeSUS believe that the latter solution is better than the one originally proposed. The adoption of this novel will, as has already been said, provide a basis for the signature and also for the formal implementation of the general collective agreement. All members of the DeSUS hope that this does not only mean a new approach to the negotiation, but also that such an agreement will actually take place, thus ending the six years of agonizing negotiations on collective agreements for the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! The law, as has already been said, has been amended annually in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007. This year, as I said before, it's a second time. And of course, if we look at the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the expert committee of representative unions, has agreed that by 1 May 2008 it will be trying to reshape the conditions for the implementation of new salaries under the law that we have here today, we are already a little late. That's a fact. But nothing is yet delayed, it is important that we do this before the elections and a representative union, although the government has really promised that this will be May 15, 2008, it is now somehow written down that this will be August 1, 2008. All right. It is important, as it is said, that this is before the elections and that no new offense is created. But the content of the law is as follows. Of course, this law has so far regulated only the wage ratios for Group A and B, these are directors and senior officials. And it is right that in some ways all the disagreements that are caused by some employees being forced to do the same work for a smaller salary, one gets more, the other gets less. This will now be brought into line, as the Minister himself said. This is commendable, and we agree. In short, a more precise definition of the content of the job catalogue will also be monitored, which is also correct. And to determine the basic salary of a trainee, I think it is necessary because it was now just charity or left to employers as much as anyone gave. However, it is important that this law, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, be aligned with trade unions. Of course, for the Slovenian National Party, this bill is acceptable if amendments or amendments to this law are taken into account. As has already been said, we also support the possibility that collective agreements in the common methodology for the classification of indicative jobs may be supplemented in some way by those jobs that are not on the list today. And it is also right that we strive in some way to include all the jobs or all the workers in this law. In view of the fact that we are witnesses that there is a great deal of disorder in the area of pay payments, including disrespect, we would point out by the Slovenian National Party the following. It is unacceptable that even in the public sector things are happening, that wages are actually paid under the table and above the table. Employers pay one part of their salary, which is comparable and also comparable to those of controllers and authorities, for which they also pay taxes and taxes, while the other is what some also give in envelopes. This has to stop. However, the practice must also be stopped that every time one remembers having a higher salary, in the country the so-called pay system is broken. That's what the Minister knows when he negotiates with different structures. And the fact is, then, there is a need for us to reform the law every year. As has already been said, for the Slovenian National Party, if you take into account amendments that we consider to be good, the law is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Does it bother any of the Members present to present the position of the Lip Group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your kindness to the Members and Members present. I won't be long. There's no doubt there's a lot of work behind the minister. There is no doubt a lot of negotiations for ministers, and perhaps very difficult negotiations, and I would like to point out our position only in three points. First time. In accordance with the agreement that representatives of representative unions had with the Minister of Public Administration, they were to achieve the elimination of payment imbalances or salary increases, which is, of course, a hard nut and, to the extent that it holds the information provided, this is, of course, one of the three reasons why they should support the above-mentioned legal amendment. Secondly, I would like to point out that the representative public sector unions agreed with the proposal and announced that they would sign the public sector collective agreement as soon as the National Assembly adopts harmonised amendments to the law on the public sector wage system. At the same time, I would point out that, at least on the basis of the minutes and knowledge of work, the corrections, which were also consistent with the unions, were introduced into the text of the novel - another reason why we support it. And the third reason why the partial principle introduced under the system should allow any individual union that has entered into an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to become a hostage is because of another union that would not conclude a contract. On the basis of these three arguments, the arguments that have come to the Lipa Group and, of course, on the basis of, I sincerely hope, the additions that have been adopted, which we are finally also investing in the Lipa Group in the parliamentary procedure and which we hope will be adopted, for this reason, we do not see any opposition to the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Public Sector Wages Act is the final result of several years of efforts to establish a system, i.e. a system of wages across the public sector. We all know that the expiry date has been postponed several times, mostly due to the partial interests of individual groups, individual segments, and we can say that many times are also purely legitimate, but if we want to put matters in the system, then we must view this as a whole and not just our narrow sector interests. So far in Slovenia, this area has not been regulated systematically, but things have been regulated by sectors and there have been problems and unnecessary problems in the country. However, it must be acknowledged that now that the outcome has been reached, including the negotiations between the partners, we hope that this matter will come to fruition as envisaged. Last but not least, a well-managed system of public sector wages is also a condition for a regulated state, for a regulated democratic state, which Slovenia is. So far, things have been dealt with in a partial way, in sectors, in segments, and there have been exacerbations and even misunderstandings. But the source of that was because we didn't have a system of wages as a system. For the good functioning of the public sector, the condition of such a system of wages, the interconnected system in the relationship between individual industries, and of course put the matter in a relationship, which has so far proved to be always a source of problems, because in nature it is only so that each individual has the best and best opinion on his or her work, and works best for himself, and others are slightly worse. But this is a purely legitimate opinion, so someone has to take care of it, and in this case, the state and the social partners, so that we can somehow evaluate ourselves properly and assess and establish a relationship between individual sectors. This, of course, required long-term, difficult and difficult negotiations. And we can be happy that there has been a result and the result is the law, it says, also an agreement between the social partners. We all know it's the hardest thing to coordinate when it comes to money. We can agree on that when we get the money, but that's usually when problems arise. Therefore, it was necessary to act with a sense and with a great deal of patience. This has obviously worked for the partners and let us hope and we want and we are confident that the system will be able to live, as envisaged now, after a new one, in September. It is therefore necessary to sign collective agreements for the public sector as a whole. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we advocate a well-functioning public sector as a service to citizens, and this good functioning certainly requires the proper remuneration of people working in the public sector. Last but not least, we know that there are over 100,000 people working in this sector, and if these people do not feel satisfied, then we probably cannot expect them to perform a good service for citizens and citizens. And now we think that day is also this condition that speaks of wages. We therefore support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we do not support the amendment tabled by Really. We believe that the solution given in the basic text adopted on the home committee is the right one and that is why we will support that text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ambassador Miran Potrč will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. At the proposal of the Social Democrats, the National Assembly has already adopted a conclusion more than 10 years ago that, with regard to issues relating to the interests of individual partners, there is a need for mutual coordination between the country or between other employers and trade unions and for decisions that are in line with this. This has been our leader in the Social Democracy since then, and we therefore welcome every effort made by the Government to reach an agreement and follow the content of such an agreement. This time, too, such work has been done and, therefore, we support, on the basis of the Social Democrats, the solutions that are prepared in law, because they were not directly for the first meeting of the home labour body, we also proposed a postponement so that an agreement with the unions could be reached after prior coordination within the Government, where there was a conflict between the Minister of State and the Minister of Defence. We note that this has been worth it because we have thus achieved the necessary content, which is harmonised, and we are pleased that this time too, this time - not, unfortunately only this time or rarely so - the coalition has acted reasonably and has not insisted that the uncoordinated bill is passed. However, I must say that we regret that, as we understand in this coordination and harmonisation, the judiciary is not involved, because part of the legislation was already on the proposal of the judiciary in the Constitutional Court's opinion and in some cases the Constitutional Court has found that the legislation is not in conformity with the Constitution, and I would therefore advise Minister Virant and the Minister of Justice that only coordination should continue and that bad will or insult should not be a fundamental criterion for mutual relations, but that appropriate solutions should also be found here. However, we would like to draw the attention of the Social Democrats to one of the solutions in the law, which we have also pointed to on the labour market, and in our opinion we have not received a reasonable or convincing answer. This is the new second, third and fourth, and above all the new second paragraph of Article 12, Article 17 of the Act, which, according to our opinion, gives the relevant ministers, the Government, as well as some others in the local self-government, powers which are contrary to the law. It reads: "If there are legitimate reasons for this," these reasons are not stated and are in the free judgement of those who are given the power to do so, "a public servant may be assigned to a salary class of not more than five salary classes higher than the salary class of the job or title, secondly, at the time of transfer to another post, thirdly, or at the time of appointment or higher title, but not to a higher salary class than can be achieved by making progress. I will not continue to mention the agreement for classification - but the Government, the district ministers, the mayor, in agreement with the district minister, the prosecutor or the lawyer and, in some case, the RTV officials, the competent minister. The inadmissibility of this solution is very mild, but nevertheless, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that criteria should be defined in a more specific way. I think it's bad because the minister didn't accept it and neither did the ruling coalition. However, I would like to point out that this does not in itself mean that the solution is good, that the Minister is not intruding, as is evident in some of the constitutional disputes he has lost, including with this Parliament, and probably also in his conduct regarding the appointment of chiefs of administrative units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the LDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president, Mr Minister! Well, Mr. Secretary is probably infallible, and I want to prevent these gestures, so you understand. Well, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the current Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not oppose this law. The main reason is that the Government has managed to reach agreements with the social partners. Apparently, everyone has now agreed to what has been discussed and what they have decided. Of course, we have concerns about journalists employed in the public service of RTV Slovenia, it is still not a state institution, it is a public service. It is also a specific profession and all that started with the RTV Act, and also later with the media law, actually pushes one part of those who are supposed to be independent into considerable dependence on the government and its representatives in different bodies. Above all, we are pleased that the reform launched by the former Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the previous term, with State Secretary Virant, now Minister Virant, is also concluding. We hope that everything that is written, and what we hear, what is spoken, about the spirit of this law, will be valid, and that it will be realized more, for example, as some other provision has been made. Let us say that there will be no problems with him, such as the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and the conduct of these meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. And Ambassador Majda Zupan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Mr President, Minister, Government representative, colleague and colleague! The new law on the public sector wage system, adopted in 2002 and adopted by emergency procedure, actually constitutes the last step before the payment system is put in place. So far, it has introduced a pay system for directors in the public sector and for all officials at the beginning of this year, while 145 000 civil servants are still waiting. Negotiations at different levels have been ongoing since 2002, they have had their ups and downs, and great efforts have been made to make the law viable and coherent with the social partners. A good week ago, the parental committee suspended the meeting on this subject because the negotiations had not yet been concluded. Skillful and patient negotiators, who need to be recognised as able to negotiate and persevere, have been able to re-establish a broken system, and it is very important to maintain unity, in particular among uniformed professions, which are often compared with one another. Collective agreements are just before the formal collective agreement and collective agreements are concluded. This is supposed to happen in the first half of June, and it is very important that a partial transition to a new pay system is also possible, which means that the system as such can live, although all individual contracts may not have been signed. The news brought by the novels refers to a more precise definition of the content of the catalogue of jobs and titles, the establishment of the basic salary of trainees, the introduction of the possibility of testing the assessment and the procedure for the protection of the rights of public servants, that the possibility of entering a particular wage group or activity or profession into a new salary system is determined by the harmonisation of wages from 1 July 2008 onwards and, last but not least, the novel opens up the possibility that a public servant may, for reasons specifically justified and with the consent of employment, transfer or appointment to a title or higher, be classified for five wage classes higher than the wage class of the job or title, which brings quality and greater flexibility to the public sector. Of course, we expect this option to be under proper control. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the novelty, because we believe that the agreed pay system will establish a fairer relationship and stimulus, but we want to have highly educated and professional staff in the public sector who will be able to provide quality services to citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will move to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Does anyone want to discuss this article and the amendment? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. However, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister very much for his participation. We're moving to 20. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S ON THE DEVELOP [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Mrs. Shirca, you were on the phone. I specifically asked. It is the duty of the Member to accompany the meeting. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education by Emergency Procedure. We have 5 hours available for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word for it, or I could give it to a government representative. I've been told that we should have the presence or the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Mojca Kucler Dolinar or the Secretary of State Dr Dušan Lesjak. Comrade Juice, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. I suggest, given that we've just finished this first point so quickly, you can set a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	It's a deal. Comrade Sok, I will take your proposal into account. We will suspend the meeting in 15 minutes, so that the ministers present or the ministers announced will join us. I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick it up at 10.05. Thank you. But I just found out that the government's representatives are on their way, so we can continue at the agreed time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	As Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, who is abroad, presides over the Competitiveness Council, and the Secretary of State, Mr Dušan Lesjak, will need a few more minutes before the National Assembly. I propose that we first carry out a presentation of the working body and a presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, and later allow the Secretary of State to perform. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] That means we can go on like I said. As it is said, the proposal for a law has been treated by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolph Mohet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On 20.5.2008, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft law is intended to redefine the legal status of the professional service of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education in such a way that there will be no non-consistency between the regulation of the independent and independent position of the Council and the regulation of the position of its professional service. The draft law is also intended to provide a legal basis for the extension of the international cooperation of Slovenian universities with other universities and higher education and research institutions in the European Union. This is also the basis for the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University, whose initiative to establish Slovenia has been taking place since 2006 and a project group has been set up to this end. However, the relevant transitional provision will allow diplomats of the existing university study programmes, which have been enrolled in second-degree master's studies in the 2005/2006 study year, as set out in Article 33 of the Act, to participate in the current study programme for the Master's degree in Science and the Doctorate of Science. The representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia said on the Committee that they were opposed to the urgent process of adopting the bill and that they did not support the law. However, despite the amendments relating to the establishment of the International Union of Universities and the envisaged establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University, the Law-Legal Service pointed out that, despite the amendments relating to the establishment of the International Union of Universities and in this connection, the envisaged establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University was still not adequately regulated, as all the comments of this service were not taken into account. In the debate on the Committee, in which representatives of universities and students also participated, it was said by representatives of the opposition and invited representatives that the draft law, which significantly lays down the conditions for the operation of higher education partners, should not have been adopted on an urgent basis, as it was not sufficiently coordinated with the social partners and the public concerned. However, the main focus of the debate was on the provisions on the establishment of an international union of universities. Representatives of opposition parties have had a number of concerns and comments on this part of the law, particularly with regard to the accreditation of the international union of universities, the accreditation of programmes and the financing of these programmes. In their view, the draft law is intended to regulate the relationship between the Slovenian legal regulation of higher education and the international association of universities. We felt that it was necessary to agree clearly on the accreditation of programmes that should be carried out in such a way that accreditations would not be below the level of complexity that otherwise applies in our space. This shall also apply to bodies which deal with the appropriate participation of students and professors in management. It also raises the question of why they can also connect with non-university entities with the International Union of Universities. The law also needed to define more clearly the co-financing and financing of international associations of universities, also on the basis of the envisaged European funds. The provisions concerning the regulation of the legal status of the professional service of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education should, in the opinion of the opposition, satisfy only the formal requirements laid down in the decision of the Constitutional Court but not the professional ones. The proposal does not solve even the most basic problem of the Higher Education Council, which has introduced sufficient mechanisms to prevent conflicts of interest and provide a sufficiently strong professional service. The members of the Higher Education Council are still selected and appointed by the Government, which means that we still do not have an independent quality assurance body that meets the criteria for entry into the European Quality Assurance Register. The only right solution, which will also take account of the Constitutional Court's decision, would therefore be the establishment of an independent evaluation and accreditation agency. The Committee adopted all amendments to the parliamentary group's positions, namely SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, to the seventh section of the law and did not adopt any amendments to the opposition's parliamentary groups, namely SD, LDS, Zares, Lipe and independent Member, Dr Slavko Gabra. In the light of the amendments adopted, the Committee has prepared the text of the amended law that we are considering today and we propose that the National Assembly adopt this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of Ambassador really is presented by Dr. Pavel Gantar. [[He's not here.]] The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the Ambassador of Vas Klavor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. In doing so, I would like to mention in particular three things that we are committed to, and it is only right that they are in the amendment of this proposal to the law. For the first time, it is a matter of aligning the content with the constitutional decision of the repealed text, which sets out the legal position of the professional service of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, with all the instructions of the Constitutional Court. We therefore believe that, as an expert service, a secretariat organised within the Council, it can also have a recognised status of autonomy, independence, expertise and impartiality, as does the Higher Education Council itself. Another time. It is a very important objective of the novel proposal, which establishes a legal basis for the implementation of the Euro-Mediterranean University, based in our country. In doing so, I must say that the members of our parliamentary group, members of the Euromediteran Assembly, three of them, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Aurelio Juri, and I, as well, have been in Cairo since 1995 and later in Rabat, Tunisia and also in Athens, have advocated that Slovenia obtain this seat or that this Euro-Mediterranean University be established in Slovenia. We believe that such a university would be such an organised, successful institution of intercultural dialogue in the Euro-Mediterranean area And the third time. At the same time, I would point out that the Constitutional Court's decision also sets out the embarrassment created with regard to the old-fashioned study and the Bologna-based study on the evaluation of titles, and in particular as regards the Master's degree and level of education, and it also regulates this. The bill will be supported by our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Ambassador Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been very interested in monitoring how opposition Members, particularly from the Zares and the Social Democrats, have worked hard to address this law, not at this meeting on an urgent basis, but on a regular basis. For such a delay, there must be a bag of reasons. But the important thing is that the opposition simply does not fit the government to carry out some projects that are good and in the interest of the state. And then, at least so logically, we should also be in the interest of the opposition. But we can still understand this conjecture according to the time in which we deal with this law, for it miraculously coincides with the preeminent time. However, thank God, people are not naive and separate between guessing on the one hand and constructive politics on the other. The new law on higher education amends the law in those parts which have been pointed out by the Constitutional Court by a decision and the only proper and wise conduct of the Ministry is to remedy and correct this disagreement. As this amended law follows the requirements of the constitutional decision to the professional, the organisational tasks of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education are no longer carried out by the body within the Ministry, but are performed by the Secretariat within the framework of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. This ensures independence from the Ministry. The Constitutional Court’s decision also points out that the legal status of those students who, when enrolled in the study programmes referred to in Article 33 of the Higher Education Act, reasonably expected to receive one higher education after completion of the study. These are graduates of the university programmes that entered the Master's degree programme of the second degree or eventually acquired the title of Master's degree before the implementation of the Higher Education Act. In fact, we can say that the colleges deceived them because they promised them a master's degree in science. Of course, the main problem with the opposition is that this law also provides a legal basis for the establishment of international universities, which, of course, also belongs to the Euro-Mediterranean University based in Slovenia. It is quite unacceptable that the opposition led by SD Members, of course, here is Mr Pavliha's bright exception, but it has also been half-controversy, and Zareza opposes this project supported by 39 countries, led by foreign ministers, higher education ministers. This project is also supported by the President of the European Commission and the European Parliament. With us, however, the opposition opposes this project only because it is good and it is under the auspices of this government. This is similar to what we would have if we had opposed projects that were good for this country when we were in opposition. For example, if we were to push for entry into the NATO Union or entry into the European Union. This is, however, a matter of national interest, as well as the reputation of the country in the world. How, though, should we be viewed as a credible partner if we do not support projects within the country but are supported outside our country! This is an extremely unserious attitude on the part of the opposition to me, even if we know that they supported this project in the beginning, and today, when it needs to be realized, they are moving away. But this is what we are used to with this party, similar to the provincial legislation; first they confirmed the amendment of the Constitution, and then, of course, they began to prevent the adoption of the law on these provinces. In the SDS, of course, we will support the amendment of the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	First of all, one purely procedural comment, Mr Vice-President. I don't think what my colleague allowed in front of me is anything like that. But first, I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and, contrary to the predecessor, constructively say what the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats believes about this law, which, in particular, the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean Union of Universities, which we have called the 'University', despite the fact that 'de facto' is a network and not a university in the classical sense of the word, we support. It is not true that the Group of Social Democrats opposes the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University. The Group of Social Democrats simply does not want to bring through the side door various unusual, exotic or any other quasi-university programmes, which could be brought through the Higher Education Council, through the National Assembly and through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to Slovenia, provided funding from public funds and did not provide students with the opportunity to actually start and complete studies. We have decided to try to obtain the assistance and cooperation of all those interested in the consideration of this law, which is completely unnecessary, and to involve the Ministry of Higher Education in the discussion of this amendment only after they have started again, as it seems, must be done here in this country, and to start implementing public pressure. And since here, I can say with appreciation, some of the changes have been adopted on the basis of an agreement between the Ministry and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, we have decided that, together with colleagues from Zares and Lipe, we will make three additional additions, namely Articles 1, 2 and 4, where we propose good additions, so I hope that, given what we have heard yesterday, the coalition, in particular the SDS, will always take into account the quality and meaningful additions or amendments proposed by the opposition that it will complement today. We propose that in the new Article 10a in the first paragraph, the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be supplemented, because it is "de facto" to establish a new university, that the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should also be obtained, which, after all, all other universities, establishes all other public universities with a decree, and this would even be an agreement. In addition, we are asking or proposing that this international union of universities, that is not the one we are talking about, not the Euromed University, but we are talking about any international link between universities, should be met for the establishment and entry into the register of higher education institutions of the conditions laid down by higher education law. So, it can't just be that way, a university has been set up past the Higher Education Council and past the National Assembly. And finally, it is important that the students who will join this international union of universities know that they have the opportunity to enjoy the rights of this law and perhaps some additional rights that universities themselves will allow. International universities programmes must have the consent of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education by meeting the conditions. And another thing that seems important to us is that the Director is appointed by the Higher Education Council and that he must have five years of work experience and at least a PhD. We will, of course, support this law at the request of individuals, but we will not oppose it, despite the beliefs of some of the ladies in this hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Member Rudi Moga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! For the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it was no surprise that the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology had introduced a law that was not in line with the professional and interested public, and on top of that, the law was so incomplete that we had to amend almost all the articles of the law on the committee. The proposal for an emergency procedure itself pointed to the fact that the Government, with its substantive and other shortcomings, conceals only this with the rapid action of the positioning voting machine. In LDS, we have not received satisfactory answers to some of the urgent questions that I will later raise. I can tell you that this time, too, there were three major mistakes. The first was that it was adopted without coordination with the social partners and that only in the process when the law was introduced into the procedure were the representatives of the Government trying to reach an agreement with the public concerned in order to influence the content of this law through certain amendments. This law was also highly unsettled, at least in the committee's explanation there were no answers to the key questions that we should have when we adopt such a strategic document. This law also allows for the granting of partial personal interests to members and ideologists of the ruling coalition, which is more than clear if one looks at how new higher education institutions are established in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that at the LDS Club we have supported the idea of establishing an international Mediterranean relationship from the beginning, because the father of this relationship is our patroness, Dr. Mark Pavliha, and that we have been proud of this and we have tried to support these things all the time. That is why we do not support this, of course, pure falsehood or lie. At the same time, we have little thought that with its establishment we have three universities on a small part of Slovenia: we have a university in Nova Gorica, we have a university in Piran, we will now have a university link in Portorož, and in Murska Sobota we can wipe our noses, in New Town we can only watch, Gorenjeks can only watch what is with them, that I do not even talk about Korošci; and such concentration of universities on a narrow segment shows that the government does not have any strategic network of universities in Maribor that would help this so many times to resolve differences in the Republic of Slovenia. In the House of Representatives, we also point out that such a solution, as proposed by law, may be sufficient for the Constitutional Court, but will not convince the EU to identify and guarantee quality in higher education and that Slovenia has established an independent agency that will positively determine the quality of higher education in Slovenia. It can already be predicted that the Council for Higher Education will not be recognised as an equivalent institution in the company of agencies providing and determining the quality of EU Member States' higher education. I'd like to say the following to the end. It is certain that the issue of determining quality assurance in higher education is one of the essential elements that we have shown our backs by this law, even more than once. We have arranged these things completely stately, put almost all these things on the government's backs, and I don't think there is such a case in Europe. I think that the law, as such, that it would be quality for these very things, cannot be unanimously supported in the Liberal Democracy. In LDS, we deeply regret that the time has passed when the establishment, for example, of the Universities of Primorska or Medical Faculty of Maribor, was held here in this National Assembly with consensus and with champagne in the lobby of the great hall. We note that the time has passed when national programmes, including the National Higher Education Programme, were adopted by consensus. In this way local self-government legislation should be adopted by consensus, but when the opposition comes with certain arguments that would be well cleared for the good of this country, then the logic of power, the logic of this machine, which indicates that those promises will also be the National Assembly when we preside over the EU [[...]] [[End warning sign]] I've had less work to do than make those promises out of vines. The National Assembly is working now that we are presiding as never before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I will not dispute, as some of the speakers have done, but on behalf of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group, I will say that this amendment of the law brings three good solutions and that the urgent procedure is the result of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is why we must also correct this law in this mandate. Three solutions are found in this law. First of all, this is the creation of a legal basis for the establishment of the Euromediteran University. It's not a new matter. In 2006, a project group was appointed by the Government. This university can be set up by two universities, one of us and one of us abroad, and then a number of other such institutions in this area can join. What 29 countries support and about 200 universities to set up such a Euro-Mediterranean university will be a major improvement, as well as competitiveness in our university space, which is just to be welcomed. We are very happy that this will happen. Now, to write in this legal act everything that is necessary, what bodies the Euromed University must have, who decides what it is, is impossible at the moment. Because if you gain another foreign university to this establishment, of course, that university will also have some of its proposals, so that this is left to a contract that will be made on this basis. And what is important, what our universities can accept without fear, is that the resources for the functioning of this university will be allocated from a specific budget line. So this will not be from the part that is intended for our higher education, but will be a special item in the budget. And when they found out on the board, I think the debate got a little bit more bearable. As regards the Constitutional Court's decision, the matter is clear, here the Constitutional Court has said that it is necessary to reshape, independently, a separate service from the Ministry, so-called under this proposal, a secretariat which will decide on administrative matters in the field of higher education on its own. The decision of this body, the Secretariat, is also made on a financial basis, as a separate budget item will also be provided for the functioning of this secretariat. And the third thing that this novel deals with is the regulation of the situation of some graduates, about 500 of them, from at least three colleges, these are economic colleges, and then GEA Colleges, who, when they signed up when they became candidates, they promised to get a higher level of education without a legal basis. Well, I wouldn't go down for reasons why they could tell them that over their thumb. This should be answered by the representatives of these colleges. The Ministry of Higher Education, of course, now here in front of the National Assembly, offers this opportunity to enable them to obtain a Master's degree and a PhD in science in the 2008/2009 academic year. And that the fees paid to them, or what they paid for in this Master's degree, are also taken into account in this program. This is all the art of these three changes, and it is true that there have been a lot of questions on the committee by those who are not here today, and it is also true that we have taken a lot of time to discuss this law, and it seems to me that we will spend very little on it, given the presence and interest in this. It is obvious, Mr President, that, with your help on the amendment committee itself, we have corrected this amendment so well that it is now clearly acceptable for all and that, in my opinion, it will be adopted by consensus, as far as I hear from the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party will be pleased to support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act is primarily aimed at three objectives. On the one hand, to follow the requirements of the Constitutional Court’s decision on the regulation of the Office of Higher Education and, on the other hand, to regulate the position of graduates of the previous university study programmes, which entered Master’s degree programmes in 2005 and 2006. It is also very important that the novel provides a basis for the implementation of projects to establish a Euro-Mediterranean University based in Slovenia. In our view, the project of Euro-Mediterranean universities is of exceptional importance for Slovenia, both politically and scientifically. The project supports 39 countries and more than 100 universities, giving him a regional note. As we know, the Constitutional Court has ruled that the arrangements under which the professional, organisational and administrative tasks for the Higher Education Council are carried out by an authority within the Ministry are systematically inconsistent and, as such, inconsistent with Article 2 of the Constitution. In the SLS Group, we support the proposal to transform the Office of Higher Education as a body of the Ministry into a secretariat of the Council, chaired by the Director of the Secretariat, appointed by the Higher Education Council. In this way, the professional service is given optimal independence. It seems to us that the secretariat will also be independent in financial terms, as it will be a self-sustaining budgetary user. We agree that under Article 33 of the Law, a graduate of the so-called university study programmes, enrolled in second-degree Master's degree programmes in the 2005/09 study year, is given the opportunity to enroll in the study programmes for the Master's degree in Science and the Doctorate of Science adopted before 11.6.2004. As I have already mentioned, the law also lays down the legal basis for extending the international cooperation of Slovenian universities with other universities, higher education or research institutions in the European Union, and consequently lays down the means of obtaining accreditation of higher education programmes of international associations of universities established in the Republic of Slovenia. In the SLS Group, we support the solution to consider publicly valid the study trails accredited in the Member States of the European Union, carried out by the International Union of Universities based in Slovenia, if their diplomas in the State of Accreditation have the character of a public document and the programmes are notified to the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education and written in the form of a register of higher education institutions at the Ministry of Higher Education. We will therefore support the proposal in the SLS Group, as it brings good solutions to address constitutional inconsistencies and proposals that are extremely important for Slovenia and the wider regional area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I will lead the debate on the basis of the amendments of 30.5. I will separately lead the debate to Article 1, separately to Articles 2 and 4. In the debate, as it is said, I am putting forward Article 1 and the amendment of the proposed SD Group of Members, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the Zares Group and the Lipa Group of Members. I'm opening an application procedure for discussion. Here you go. Five Members present shall be included in the debate. The first one has the word of Ambassador Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	Just for a little while. We've talked about this a lot on the board. Our fellow Member, Mr Gaber, who is unfortunately not among us today, probably has other things to do. But in the position of the Group of Members, I have indicated that in this case it is a matter of establishing a higher education body which includes both a university of home and a university of foreign origin. To set up this university to support 29 Mediterranean countries, 200 universities, and to require a specific budget line within the framework of funding, which is likely to be powered from different sources. Therefore, at this point it would be pointless for this legal instrument to establish what kind of bodies must operate and so on, as some consensus will have to be reached here between the two founders and, of course, among all those who will finance such a Euro-Mediterranean university. That is why this amendment does not make sense to us, but we remain in what is stated in the law, so that these relations can be negotiated with each other. Unfortunately, at this point in New Slovenia, we will not support this amendment, and even on the committee itself, we have said that such a record in this law is not currently taken into account and that the procedure could be very long or could mean that before this Euromed University was legally established, this law should be amended and the purpose of which is to regulate it in this amendment also legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much. However, Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you, Vice President. I will support this amendment, because regardless of the relationship on which this network of universities is based, it is necessary that in our space, if we place it in our space, it certainly meets the conditions that apply in this space. Unfortunately, it is true that we are setting up this network of universities, Euro-Mediterranean, somehow in the wrong way. We should establish this when the project was prepared, on the basis of an international treaty. Today this path, this option is somewhat closed, because the international treaty also implies a series of ratifications of all countries whose universities become members, but this time does not allow us to establish it this year. So we go with national legislation, with a national solution, with our law. However, since I have heard quite a few shots here past the story - colleague Irgle, otherwise pleasant, who knows something about this university, when she attributed our party in particular to non-participation in this project, she, of course, shot very well over. No offense! You'll remember how this project came about. You will recall that your Minister, then Dr. Zupan, has twice rejected this idea and that only on the third attempt of colleague Pavliha did the Government set up a working group on his concrete initiative. And we have commended this, we have repeatedly commended the establishment of this working group led by the Secretary of State, Dr Lesjak, who has prepared a good project and this project has also received the appropriate international support that we have all provided, including our delegation, which has played a major role here, in all Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Forums. So it is difficult today, because we have comments on the solutions proposed in this law, to attribute our party's non-participation in this project. See, if you have looked at the constitutional charter to be signed on 9 June, you could see that it is well written in this charter, that we have 6 months from the signing of the Charter to form the legal basis for the establishment of the Euromediteran University. So nothing would have been delayed if we hadn't adopted this law. We would have six months from 9 June until the founding assembly of the members. But you wanted to hurry. I will not personally oppose the law, even though it seems to me that it is quick-formed, that it does not take into account the relevant warnings of the academic sphere and profession, however. Not enough! And that we will do something today, as Dr. Mencinger says, which will remind us of the table, but it will still be a chair. It is true that an important event will take place on 9 June, which will be important from the European Union here, will honor the signing of the Charter, will also be us - parliamentarians, our delegation in the Euromediteransk Parliamentary Assembly, and will indeed be an important event. And that's that event that's crucial, because it's got the proper international verification. And let us not forget that the seat of this university will not be only in Slovenia. Here we will have one of the seats, the first base seat, but the university as a network will probably get its seats back in Tunisia and certainly one in East Jerusalem when East Jerusalem is liberated. That's how this network is starting to start. We have this honour to host the first seat and to create an opportunity for funding from European sources. So this is just the case, and the last time we received a commendation in Athens, when Slovenia devoted more than 2 million and a half euros to its own initiative for setting up an international centre for Euro-Mediterranean studies, which is already the basis of this project. So when we talk about the definitions of political parties to this project and when we want to encourage those who are not supposed to agree with us, let us be right, let us be informed and also a little "mea culpa" knock, because at the beginning, once again, when the initiative was given in 2005, you have all been silent, no one has heard; and, of course, you have attached to the negative, negative opinion of the Minister for Higher Education, the science of Mr Zupan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Replo has a member of Parliament, Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you so much for the replica. Mr Aurelio Juri, I must say that you are also quite pleasant, but deny that you initially supported this project, but today you are deliberately delaying this procedure so as not to reach some legal basis for the Euro-Mediterranean University, but unfortunately you cannot. Finally, Mr Pavliha left the meeting in protest on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development - this is your member from the Social Democrats - because of your hypocritical attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you, too. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! He would personally be happier if we also had a network of universities in the Republic of Slovenia as we set up this international network of universities. Thus, despite repeated appeals to the Government and the Ministry, let us show us where Slovenia will have future universities, and in the national programme, from 7 to 10, we have never received this answer or have been so insolvent that in fact they leave it to the case and the environment in which these universities are supposed to somehow try to form. I'd like to say the following. See, when we write a kind of baptismal paper of this network of universities, and when we wrote in some way to take decisions on the establishment of universities or changes to these decrees, baptismal papers, for all public universities in the Republic of Slovenia and for all colleges in this area, then they are part of the free market, completely in the shadow of it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we just look at these things where the National Assembly participated and where the National Assembly did not participate, then I can say that we have members at the University of Ljubljana 26, at the University of Maribor 16, at the University of Primorske 6, that is to say, a total of 48. For all of these, under the terms "we wrote birth certificates," we looked at whether it was appropriate for them to be established, and we were essentially providing funds through the state budget to finance these universities. And we also, when we wrote this, somehow assured how or what kind of organs such a university would have. The government then, of course, confirmed the statutes and so on, all that is lawful to it. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We also have a private university in Nova Gorica, which has six colleges. And we also have 23 independent higher education institutions. These were created in the market. Allow me because you probably didn't look at them to quote you on the 18 December 2007 European Faculty of Law in Novi Gorica, which was never discussed by the National Assembly, this is the Faculty of Postgraduate State and European Studies in Kranj, which was never discussed by the National Assembly, the Faculty of Information Studies New Town, the Faculty of Media in Ljubljana, the Faculty of Applied Social Studies in Nova Gorica, GEA College - the Higher School of Entrepreneurship in Piran, so that now there is an international network of universities in Portorož and the independent GEA College in Piran. Then we have the Bled Business School, the Faculty of Postgraduate Management Studies in Bled, the Faculty of Postgraduate Humanities Studies in Ljubljana, the International Faculty of Social and Business Studies Celje, the International Postgraduate School of Josef Štefan in Ljubljana, the School of Drawing and Painting in Ljubljana, the High Economic School in Celje, the Higher Commercial School of Celje, the High Business School of Polymer Technology in Maribor, the Higher School of Design in Ljubljana, the Higher School of Accounting in Ljubljana, the Higher School of Environmental Protection in Ljubljana, the Higher School of Technology and Systems of Novo Mesto, the Higher School of Polymer Technology in Slovenj Gradc, the Higher School of Legal Business in New Town, the Higher School of Environmental Protection in Celju, the High School of Health and Care in Jesenice and the High School of Health in Nos. The National Assembly never discussed this. And if you look at it, this scale is almost equivalent to that of predominant, which is not bad, after all, if it is a quality, independent higher education institution and also independent universities in this area. But, ladies and gentlemen! Someone should have said that, someone should have assessed this, this network in Slovenia. But there is no such assessment, and worse yet, it is happening; look, we, for example, are establishing Joseph Stefan, a public institution, funded by the state. The public institute Joseph Štefan, and then the public institution, is co-founder of the private university in Novi Gorica. And that's why there's always a private cross with the public and there are different bypasses possible, there are different cash flows possible, there's a different flow of programs, and there are students at the same time, and I think personally that the National Assembly should be on top of all this. And especially because of the universities established by the Republic of Slovenia, I do not know now, Mr State Secretary will be able to respond, but they will probably be the founders of this Euro-Mediterranean University - they will probably, I don't know, probably - the University of Primorsk and the University of Maribor, maybe some others, these are the public universities that we have set up. Once they establish this network of universities, they will also need certain resources to move forward. From where will these funds get, how will this act certainly affect their functioning? It seems to me, fellow Members of Parliament and Members, that this is okay with this amendment, that universities set up by the Republic of Slovenia to establish international alliances need the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's right! But it seems to me that the National Assembly, that Members and Members who are actual representatives of the people who actually confirm and co-form the direction in which we are going to go, would be those who would also be aware of this and who would also co-decision that such a network of universities would be established, because, after all, we can be proud that we were among the first to establish it, that we will have the carriers of this. And if the National Assembly, apart from adopting this law that the Government has proposed, has corrected it, but has nothing else to do with it, it seems to me that it is not in the national interest. I think that from this point of view, if we want to maintain our credible role as voters who elected us and everyone else, that we should also go to the National Assembly as it says there, and that we should give consent to the Government, the National Assembly, or, if it is already too harsh - consent - I think we should at least give an opinion to the National Assembly. For the establishment and functioning of one such large international facility, if you look at it, should certainly be part of the activities of this National Assembly, not that we leave it to the current government, but to the future government when it comes, and the Members of the State Assembly in such relations, and we never discuss the things I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Let me start by saying that I will support the proposed amendment, which, in my view, sets out in paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 certain things that are necessary for the establishment of a university, because, by definition, the International Union of Universities in paragraph 3 is a designated university, since the adoption of these two amendments in article 10a depends on my support for the law that we are discussing. And now let me get this even more detailed. The government, not for the first time, but probably not for the last time, has afforded a special process of regulating the things it wants to be in an exclusive position and because the Government knows that the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University is supported by parliamentary groups, including mine, although some of the coalition want to excite the Slovenian public that this is not true. Because I don't know where he came from with the behaviour that our Group of Members, long before the coalition breathed its consent to this project, initiated procedures within the international institutions; and this my colleague Aurelio Juri cannot speak to himself, but I can say, before my colleague Pavli, he began to deal with these things and obtained the agreement of the Group of Members. So much for truthfulness. Therefore, it is very difficult to justify matters because they are seduced by some other channels. I'll tell you again why. On the 8th page of the proposal, the proposer herself wrote that it was not in international experience to establish an international union of universities that provided for the establishment of a law, but an international treaty. Here in Slovenia we will invent a new path and decide to regulate it in law. At the end of this text, the fourth paragraph specifically states: "The international review has not shown similar solutions in higher education legislation in the Member States of the European Union, but the absence of such arrangements causes problems in the recognition of diplomas of certain known institutions" - and so on. If we are looking at students from the point of view now, then it might still be permissible to regulate in marriage. If that's an excuse. But I specifically stress that this is just an excuse for something that will happen under an article entitled "International Union of Universities" and then we come to a completely illogical link in the third paragraph "The International Union of Universities of the preceding paragraph is a university under this law", and this university is thus determined by the proponents, "no matter how the conditions for the establishment of the university and for the registration of the university institutes are met". Look, our mouths are full of us, even with the resolution on higher education, how we defend quality, how we want to have the comparability of our institutions with international institutions. However, when we establish a new institution, we go all the way and there is no need to carry out the basic procedure, which is envisaged as a procedure in which the National Assembly is also involved. Because the National Assembly takes a decision to set up each of the colleges, not just from universities. Therefore, whether it is hypocrisy or hypocrisy - no, it is possible to say so - it is necessary to consider who is manifesting something to someone. Here is a typical example of bypassing the existing founding pathways, which open up when they are included in the Higher Education Act, open up as a possibility for any other institution, because under this law only two will have to be established, one from Slovenia and one from another country. Without this, it added that the universities set up by the Republic of Slovenia for the establishment of an international union of universities need the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, without the addition that the consent of the National Assembly is, excuse me, something that has now become a practice in this mandate - that all decision-making power is united in the hands of the executive branch and within the executive branch of power, as we are used to, a very narrow circle of people not to say one person. For me, it is, as it is said, essential for me to adopt an amendment that gives the Assembly the opportunity to maintain a balance that is such a modern word that balance must be taken care of. And regardless of whose hands the executive branch of authority is in, but through these instruments, it is concerned about the continuity of the criteria by which higher education institutions are established. I think this is the minimum standard that the proponents should agree to, because the promises of how things will be financed - because it will be financed from public funds, and who says it will not be from public funds! I have in my hands the financial provisions of the Charter of Establishment, which will be signed on 9 June, and it states in Article 8: "The activities of the University are financed by the European Union, interested countries, international organisations, national and international donors." This is said to be a combination of a public-private to which our country will contribute from public funds, from which other source than the one who will decide on higher education, and the funds will go, even if this is a specific item. It's a bypass. I'm not saying that some things in this case didn't want to be different, but, you know, those who are monitoring developments in higher education would have said something about EMUNIE and funding one million and a few euros, but another million and something else. These are public funds and, if public funds are allocated to a higher education institution, they should be allocated in the same way as other public institutions. This opens the door for the establishment of others. But maybe some college from Croatia will come up with a plan to establish an international union of universities or from where. I understand that the current coalition has much to do with the fact that it has predicted 10 universities, but whether this space carries more than ten, is another question. As it is said, I do not oppose the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university. The six-month period from 9 June is long enough not to excuse the urgency of the procedure and all that is happening in relation to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word is given by Ambassador Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I listen to this and compare the story in the environment in which I live and work, man is so little at risk. First of all, this review of universities and higher education institutions, which was presented a little earlier by colleagues Moge, can be found to be concentrated and concentrated on certain parts of the country. We have before us the amendments that we should talk about and define the role of the National Assembly, the conditions for the establishment of a new university and the role of the Higher Education Council. Why is that even necessary? Because there are things going on in the country that some people don't understand anymore. As my colleague earlier said, we're setting up programs by bypass, and that programs are being set up by the ideologies of the territorial authority. Isn't there something really wrong here? However, this is mainly why I have come to my attention; in the past I have participated in the establishment of a dislocated biotechnological programme and when I know very roughly how much it is necessary to invest in such a dislocated programme in Pomurje. Today it's a little late in the night, just to make yourself a side. On his first visit to the government in Pomour, the Prime Minister of the Government said, "Now everything will be different." In addition to the promises about money, the region, infrastructure, and I don't know what, it was said: you will also get a university. Now I don't know if he needs the next two terms, or if it's enough for at least one term to happen. What happened? There was only one remaining, that higher education dislocated programme, which had already been based on the previous government. And even worse, the funding or operation of this program must be financed by the municipalities. The state doesn't want to hear it like we're not in the same country! When I look at this document, you have to ask yourself, over and over, whether we live in the same country. Is it because we don't have a Jambrek in Pomour, which would be funded by the way, that I apologize to Mr. Jambrek, because there are more of them, probably more of them, or is this some kind of story on purpose? The idea of a tourism programme in which people have made quite some efforts to be established in Radenci, by the way, the three mayors signed a strange letter on the intention to establish their tourism programme in Slovenia, blocking the programme in which much work has been put into and today is that zero. So in this part of Slovenia, if you look at the review or map, however you can draw it, we have absolutely nothing on our own. Because we don't obviously have the right person to be on the right side, who would be able to set up and fund something for what's called "single decentralisation". [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Now [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the new Prime Minister of the Government, Comrade Petan. This is not how I object to this university, not at all, but the way things are in this country is sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Given the willingness expressed after the additional debate, of course, I am opening a re-appealing round. I ask all those who will discuss applying. Here you go. We've got an extra seven applicants. First of all, Ambassador Breda Pecan has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Still the first amendment to Article 1. [[...]] I would not repeat what colleague Majda Potrate said, but I would like to warn you not to take these amendments as an attack on the European Euro-Mediterranean University. I think it would be more appropriate here in this Chamber, despite the fact that it is shorter for this EMUNI University, which is supposed to mean the Euromed University, if we are talking about Euro-Mediterranean, and if the official title is different. It is only with these three additions that we have taken a step that we have proposed with the Student Organisation before. So let's not let them come to Slovenia of any kind, I will say, out of the air drawn programs that can significantly reduce the quality of university studies in Slovenia. Please agree, please, to agree that we will be in the National Assembly or that in the National Assembly, when new university networks are established, the National Assembly will be actively involved in the adoption of new university alliances. And that in the subsequent articles, as we propose, the Higher Education Council will also play its role in these events, which the law sets out on higher education, so let us allow it not to be overshadowed by these changes and not to diminish its importance. It is said that the International Union of Universities must comply with the conditions enshrined in this law, one of these conditions is, of course, the consent or accreditation of the Higher Education Council. And lastly, let's not forget that surely the most important part of every university is students. Without college students, it wouldn't be. It could be an institute where university professors are working, but if there are no students, then it's just an institute, a research institute, and then it can't be a university anymore. So let's give the students all those rights, even on the unions of universities they have under our law. And if such a union of universities wants to give them more rights, then it is only conditional that we write in the law and also the rights provided for in the agreement or contract establishing it. So, again, I stress: do not reverse what we have said on the committee itself and what we are saying today. We are not opposed to the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university; we are not opposed to the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university by a lady who leaves the hall!; but we support it, and we want all its successors, who may appear in our space, to meet the conditions that our universities must also meet. The only private university in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. At first, I had no intention of responding to the debate, but then the discussion by the predecessor, Comrade Gez Juban, with some thought that there is no obedience in Prekmurje, there is no interest of the State to establish any public higher education institution in that area. I must say that I believe this can be the case in Prekmurje, but a similar story has been happening throughout Slovenia during the previous mandates of the previous governments. Specifically for Dolenjska, efforts are made to reach the university or some public higher education institutions over 10 years of age. There was no hearing. There was no interest, however, and the economy and the policy of that environment have made a great deal of efforts to finally come to this. And after so many years of efforts, there has also been an initiative by Members; we have tabled a motion for a decree to establish a new higher education institution or a public university, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at least in this opinion that was available to us, does not object. It means that it is not true that the Government would not have been listening, that public higher education institutions are also being established in some other parts of Slovenia. However, as Mr Juban mentioned, there is no Jambrek from New City or from Dolenjska. However, it is a great support and interest of the economy, as well as of local policies, of all the mayors in that environment. Such a thesis does not hold, and I will be happy if I have the opportunity to support such an initiative on the part of, say, Members or Applicants, from that environment, if the conditions are met. As for this law, or amendment to the so - called Mediterranean University. Of course, I am pleased to support this initiative as well as the possibility that we can establish or establish a university in the Slovenian space, which will also be linked to some other international institutions. Who gets out of it? Above all, our students, our young people, because, in essence, they will have significantly greater access to knowledge, international professors, and they will not need to share knowledge abroad, as well as contacts with students and professors, in this way they will be simplified, which means that we will only acquire knowledge and connections that are certainly especially needed by young people. That is why I am also pleased to support this initiative and such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I wouldn't agree perfectly with the speaker in front of me. Allow me, too, to explain very specifically what is going on in the area of higher education in this mandate, under the mandate of Prime Minister Janez Janša. I read in the papers today, you mentioned, my friend, the Jambrek family. Yes, but this is the planned work of this government - it opens up space for some very well-known political name or surname. Peter Jambrek's children, who opened up to him in higher education, wonder why they are setting up new higher education institutions - they have set up an institute to raise media culture. Why? Because they're going to make a long-term back. They set it up, but they don't have any concrete plans. But they've secured some backwoods. So it's a financially profitable business. I wonder why such a boom in private higher education institutions is just under this government or the same people who are very close to the SDS or the Prime Minister of the Government. Peter Jambrek is also a co-founder of so many and so many higher education institutions. At first it may look like a private institution, a private institution - I know you, too, a respected colleague who spoke before me, how "simpl" is to write down a decree under this government and give this private institution the status of a state institution and provide it with funding. It is so much easier because the Government majority also has a majority on the Committee of the National Assembly and in this House, and it is easy to support everything you can imagine or imagine. I was reading Saturday’s annex, and someone reminded me of this article. In our country, it's time to start building on knowledge. So it's not the time to, I don't know, bring the university into each of you because it might be a lucrative business, but it's time to start building at research universities. On this project, respected colleagues and colleagues, at least as far as I know, as far as I'm monitoring the meetings in this term, you're not doing anything. What is other than politicisation, the profitable politicisation of Slovenian higher education? International Mediterranean University, all nice and well. By means of this law, we give the legal basis for her to be able to live. All right, too, the project is supported by Slovenia by the international public. But why do we allow this law to be the Mediterranean University, maybe another international university, or the one that will be based at home in Slovenia, to import elite professors. I don't know. I'm just guessing. Perhaps the Catholic University, where it is already planned to become a time-consumer in our space, where it will have such opportunities due to incomplete legislation, the elite university, which will, I believe, also be financed from public finances, from the state budget. So why don't we write in this law clear rules of the game that there can't be an international university that doesn't have a seat or has a seat with us, have different rules, easier rules, more looser rules than our home university or state university. Why are we demolishing the University of Ljubljana, Maribor, the University of the Sea? These universities also have a great reputation worldwide. The University of Ljubljana was ranked in a very high place when they performed analyses, according to the quality of the curricula and the knowledge that this university gives to its students. All well and well, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, but not deliberately destroying knowledge in our country. It is right to open the door to new possibilities, but not at the expense of good quality. What we propose in the opposition under this amendment is that only clear rules of the game be recorded within the framework of the law. The additions to Article 1 address the shortcomings of the provisions of the proposal by maintaining the importance of the National Assembly in the establishment of universities, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, and by supplementing paragraph 3, maintain the legal order in force in the field of higher education. Even in the establishment of international universities, students must have legal rights. I've read your explanation if you haven't read it. And I believe it is "fair" to adopt this amendment and to write clear rules under Article 1 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Another addition to my previous debate that I might be more clear, because I see that my colleague Irgle did not understand me very well, perhaps I have misinterpreted myself. But let me smile a little bit. I had seen my fellow Jerovsk before, and when he was leaving, he attached his gestures to the fact that our party was not supposed to support this project. When we proposed to the Committee on Foreign Policy to complement Slovenia's programme of activities within the European Union with this project two years ago, before a working group was formed, which prepared a very good project, however, colleagues Jerovšek and the Foreign Minister had little surprise because they did not know what was going on. And on the question of whether it would cost, then I told them nothing. As a member of the European Union, this will be financed by the European Union and the Arab Council. This has been introduced into this programme; of course, this has also been followed by the story of support for the initiative of colleague Pavliha and the creation of the right expert group that prepared it. But, you know, this university has one basic mission, and maybe it would be good for coalition MPs to read what the purpose of this university is. The aim is to enable the creation of a new generation of intellectuals who will be more skilled in dialogue between all cultures of the Mediterranean area, between the European coast and the Arab coast or the African coast of this area, because the world lacks better dialogue. And in the spirit of this communication, I will also try to contribute to a better dialogue with my colleague Irglovo, and I will say that our party is not delaying the adoption of the legal basis for the establishment of the Euromediteran University, because this legal basis is not the best and is not crucial. On 9 November, the deadline within which an appropriate legal basis is to be reached will expire, 9 November! On 9 June, we will sign a charter, and on 9 November, it will be six months before the university's founding assembly will have to be convened. And this is the time in which better legal bases can be formed. We now have this offer, and we will not reject it, we will accept it, but we warn that it is not the best in a dictatorship that allows the establishment of the Euromediteranean University. And let me add, if we did not adopt this law, the same would happen on June 9th. Or if we passed a different law, the same thing would happen on June 9th. I hope I've made myself clear, and that we won't go back to telling you that I don't have a foot and a half, but that I only have a foot and a half. You can say that a hundred times, I'll still be at the 50 meter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	Thank you very much. However, Member Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you so much again for saying that. I would like to draw attention to the part where some of the types of Social Democrats say that the procedures for the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University have already started substantially earlier, even before this government, in front of Mr Pavli. All of this is true and we have nothing against it, and so it is, thank God you're so smart and you know that it's necessary to do so. But you start the projects, and then you don't finish them. Here's the problem. And here's the problem of your hypocrisy I was talking about earlier. It's no problem for you to start signing something, we've witnessed it many times. The problem is that no project can be completed. And apparently, Comrade Yuri, we'll never understand each other here. And even if you repeat a thousand times that you do not oppose this establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University. The facts and the process itself show otherwise. You already did not want to discuss this in the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. You wanted this meeting to take place once again when possible procedures would no longer be appropriate for the project to be implemented. And here I see the main problem. But you've proven this a number of times. It was similar in the provinces. I'm just saying that you want to stall with this project on purpose. And here's the main problem. And given that this project supports 39 countries, I find it extremely unrealistic that the opposition thus prevents the adoption of such a project. Here's the problem, and we're just gonna have to make a different deal here.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We will continue on the basis of the list of applicants, after which I will reopen another round, and in the meantime I will not allow the order of the debaters to change. A colleague of Jozef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing this law, which also touches on the establishment of the Euromediteran University in some articles. This is an extremely important project. And until the last meeting of the Higher Education Committee, I was sure that this was a joint project. I explained there on the Committee on Higher Education that I remember, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, that, above all, some colleagues from the opposition referred to the projects of the Euromediteransk University and the efforts to obtain the seat of this university here in Slovenia. We know that there was a great interest in getting this seat, and I imagined that we would all celebrate this success now. That we will all rejoice that the current government has successfully completed this project to bring this seat to us in Piran. But no, for the last time on the board, I notice that it's practically a two-faced game. Concealed opposition, but very distinctly so that only a blind man would not notice that it is actually an opposition. And another fear that I don't understand about universities, an extraordinary fear of competition. And because competition has moved forward everywhere, and I don't always understand it in academic circles. And of course there is, even these amendments today are somehow a fruit or a result of these two things. Look, here we talk about the need for the consent of the National Assembly to be given, and yes, the law is the highest act of consent. And if we accept this today by law, we will give the highest act of consent to establish such a university. And now, before that, one MEP said I'm comparing one story and another, but now I'm going to compare two stories. This is your opposition to this university, which is encouraged by some political and also material causes. You are opposed to this because the Slovenian public would not have faced the fact that this Slovenian government, the current government, our coalition was successful, extremely successful. If she had succeeded in one project that would probably have been run by the government under your options, you wouldn't have gotten it. That's almost certain. And in the beginning you fixed, you supported, but then when I compare, just as in the provinces, when it was possible to establish, when it is possible to give people something they will have, as in the provinces, a wide population of people, much possible to get, so to the students of the future, no, now we give up and now we are hiding, and we are turning into a "stand" for our reasons, why we didn't, and we are looking for hair in the egg. And you know, this game of yours has become so transparent, so transparent, so anti-human, you've become these parties that you're opposed to it, which is good for people. I must say that earlier, it has been said by the President of the Higher Education Committee that the National Assembly should keep an eye on the establishment and everything. I think the Higher Education Committee didn't use it if it didn't. However, he had powers and powers, powers and opportunities, but I did not like the last few meetings of this committee this year or even last year. 10 people from one university are invited, all are given a word, and now there are leading ideologists, some universities have a former candidate for President of Social Democrats. And he's been on the board for two hours. And by doing this the committee does not do that task, the committee is politicising rather than actually worrying about the quality of the programmes for order on this academic floor. And with that kind of behavior, he loses authority, including the board. I'm sure he's losing authority because what was happening when the resolution was adopted, about the law and that, that was destructive, was anarchy in the area of higher education, there was no effort for a good resolution, not by what, but obstruction in another way. By delaying one organisation to send people to the committee in exchange for 15 hours of meeting. And I ask you to separate the grain from the weeds and not wrap the weeds into some nice paper and offer them here in the form of amendments. Say it out loud: "We are for political reasons against the establishment of the Euromedian University in Piran." I suppose, I don't know exactly, I wasn't at the beginning that you stopped Mr Paulich from coming to this assembly because he supports. But he supported and worked hard. And you probably don't want Slovenian voters and viewers to notice this contradiction in their own kind. It's "unfair" to prevent him from being an MP. I would like for good projects for the benefit of Slovenia to be a great degree of consensus here, and all your fears about the side doors, about the "by-passes" and all that, is actually a fear of competition. But competition, we cannot say that in this case, when international universities go to 90 other countries, everything is badly done elsewhere in the university field, and we are doing well. This, I think, is not possible to say that even in these 39 countries, there are many Europeans, they have good universities and they will come here with excellent programs. And I'm not afraid of these programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. So I see that, unfortunately, some coalition Members and Members have not read the charter of establishment, because they would then know that it will be an institution that will provide postgraduate studies that has nothing to do with competitiveness or fear of competition, because these programmes will involve already existing higher education institutions from this Euro-Mediterranean area. On a particular question to the Secretary of State, whether the non-admission of this law also means the non-implementation of the signature on 9 June, I have been assured that what is to happen on 9 June will happen, no matter what happens to this law. Because the Charter is ready because from the time of the drafting of the Charter to the validity it is open time and it would be good to read Chapter 5 of the Charter, where it states that it will be later, by 30 September, countries wishing to join this project or individual higher education institutions may join. There's nothing missing. The Charter will be signed in a series of headlights on 9 June, you will not lose the event, Pöttering, Barroso and Janša will take a picture at this event, it will happen, but understand that some things cannot be dealt with in such an incomprehensible way. You accuse us that we do not understand that we oppose them. We don't object. Let's get this over with. We're not afraid of international competition. Six months until this moment of celebration will be the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your discussion. And I'm opening the circle again. I ask you to report all those Members of Parliament who wish to do so. Here you go. We have four additional members. The first is Ambassador Aurelio Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	I'll try my colleague Irgle, and I'll explain it to my colleague Jerovsk. I don't know if my colleague Jerovšek remembers when we proposed, I said before, to supplement Slovenia's decision or programme of activity in the EU, my colleague Jerovšek himself didn't know what it was about. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank God there was no argument against that. My colleague Irgle is talking again about giving me an initiative in the previous term. We didn't give it away. We put it in the hands of this government. Chronology, September 2005, when the Government visited Cyprus, a week after we designed this project in Cairo, I placed it in the hands of Minister Zupan. In Cyprus, he said, "No." A month later, a question sent to Dr. Zupan in the National Assembly. Again, he said, "No." The programme of activities in the EU was complemented. A year later, a colleague of Paulias gave the initiative and finally the government said, "Yes." 2006 appointed an expert group, so we trusted this government, the initiator of this project and this idea, the realization, and there is a realisation, but we can't bring it all down. The problem is that we approach this realization too quickly, too recklessly, and it would be smarter if we took some more time to complete it. That is why I have again warned that the signing of the Charter will take place on 9 June. This is the most important political move. From here on out, everyone could take the time to come up with just a legal basis. We already have it here today, and I repeat, we do not oppose it. We don't object to anything you say. I think that this - and I'm surprised that two fellow Members don't want to understand this - would still be understood and taken back by primary school children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I do not know why we are moving away from the topic or from the essence of this amendment to Article 1. The International Union of Universities needs, because at least one of the participants from Slovenia will also be financed, a framework for budgetary financing. In addition, such a contractually organised relationship needs a framework, the minimum framework allowing for autonomous, free negotiation, negotiations on this joint treaty on the International Union of Universities. And that's it. Would you all like to negotiate now, all of us, together, with, I don't know, hundreds of partners who are about to enter into this relationship? Well, don't complicate it! I really don't get it. Some on the board had fears about "banana partners" and I don't know what. Students would also like to have all those rights and more than they have in Slovenia. But this is the international union of universities where partners will be framed in what is possible. We are happy that this is happening in Slovenia. I'd be glad if there were more of these relationships. See, any such exchange, integration will certainly enrich both the higher education sphere and the sphere of people, young people who will then operate in this Mediterranean, Euro-Mediterranean environment or in the global environment. But perhaps in this way we will gain capable young people in Slovenia, including from some "bananas", some say, the environment. I really don't understand that this is about markings like that. Because we are patient, understanding, and understanding, we also understand those who come from other backgrounds and habits that may not fit in with others. But let's just leave it. I think here in this 10a article is a well-established framework, condition, one domestic one foreign one and then forward. And I don't know what to include, it's totally unnecessary. I think that it is now essential that we adopt this amendment to the law in this part concerning the formation or coverage of the state of Slovenia and its budget and its institutions of this international union of universities, and that we give this basis for this signature in June, but not now to delay, to seek some reasons why we could and should still think. The representatives of the academic sphere on the committee were also not able to make any concrete proposals and amendments, except that the debate was again brought to a level, what and how it should remain unchanged in the higher education sphere in Slovenia. I propose that we speed up, and that we understand this as a framework, a negotiating framework or what, in fact, we as the host of the Euromed University or the Mediterranean University in this case, which is up-to-date, need to be competent co-workers in this establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much. But the word is from Member Rudy Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! "De lana caprina rixari" or fight for goat hair. None of the opposition here has said that we will oppose this law, but we are always speaking out on the side of the position as we oppose the adoption of this law. There is no opposition, you know, my respectable colleague and colleague, but if someone has little sense and wants to do good for this country, the objection is not that then just what comes from the government, we put the press up, you put it in parliament and it's worth it. That is why we also receive a salary to oppose it. If that were the case, ladies and gentlemen, then the law that we are considering today, which has come into consideration, which has been completely inconsistent with all of them, has not been discussed about anything, for this government, are air students, universities entities that need to be prosecuted and watch what they are doing, we are very much adopting such legislation. And other institutes etc., it doesn't matter what they say at all - the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, God forbid they ask her any more questions, coordinate to say something. But when the law came in the process, the government knew well with its activities, see that on July 9th, this thing will be established. But with the law we came in May, before the end of the presidency. It was a necessary procedure, the law was not harmonised for the first time, but it was so badly written down that I had never seen anything like it. We had to amend Article 1 and we had to amend Article 2 and Article 4 and then Article 6 and Article 7 and Article 10. The 10 articles have this law. It was so inconvenient that I was apprehensive as the chairman of the committee that one amended bill should be put into procedure and therefore we stopped the procedure on the committee at that time because no amendments had been tabled at that time to correct it, and I could not take it out of the air myself, so that at least this procedure was a little delayed in the National Assembly. That's when I stopped the session. In this interim period, after which we had it, the ministry had begun to talk to both students and universities and began to coordinate these things. During this interim period, we have also tried, one side and the other, to do so by trying to shape the amendments in such a way that the law was legally and systematically good enough to be accepted by the National Assembly. And that was all this opposition. Now we have to swallow that we objected and that we do not support this law, even though no one has said that, just because we got a law that was very distasteful in the procedure. I think it was a noble gesture by the opposition that we have earned time to do quality work on our committee and that we have then made a proposal that will certainly be adopted today and this matter will be closed. As far as a member of the committee is concerned, the work is ineligible in the Higher Education Committee. The Higher Education Committee itself, I must say that all its members and members have been responsible from the beginning to the end and have been working in a qualitative manner. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or, more precisely, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development is to blame for not being able to work properly, because it sends us into a procedure that respects ladies and gentlemen, laws that are not in line with no one, and therefore I, as President, colleague of Irgle, have a problem there, because this is the only forum where our students, our future, universities and all interested public, including trade unions, can be discussed. Yes, that's no way to develop democracy, gentlemen! And, if there is, of course, it's true, and with whom was this law aligned, if you're talking in between - mag. Please be so fashioned as to let the speaker speak and then express your opinion and do not act like yourself in the market. So this thing isn't consistent. How, then, can we do quality work and that I, as President, get the criticism of leaving people in the National Assembly, by the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to say this and say my opinion that it is because I am not whipping them there, that I say three minutes, and no one will speak again, and to throw them out - yes, listen, in what country, please, we live! For my actions, I think I live in democracy. And as long as I am president, I will let everyone, from students to professors, rectors and everyone else who has been invited, speak in this House. But when I'm gone, let someone else come along and put in place the system that was in place in another system that we said was completely flawed. And I will not allow this to be the way in which the Higher Education Committee is dealt with in this National Assembly. In particular, I am saddened that from a member of this committee who could always have received a word that could always have co-formed all these things so that this thing would go this way. You know, if we value each other so much in the National Assembly and do so, then this country will have mercy on God! Let us have some dignity, and we are really talking about what is ahead. I apologize to you, Mr Vice President, for misusing the procedure that everyone has abused in this case. We only opened a debate on whether the National Assembly should co-decision, and that's all we can talk about, and no one here is talking about it, at least I haven't heard it, but we're partying with each other. And one more thing is in this amendment that students have in addition to the rights of this law also what it says here - the minimum that they could give to students is - now I don't know how they look at us here from the balcony, when we don't even talk about them, when we don't even talk about what this amendment is saying, but we're sideshowing ourselves to people how one bigger pack is than the other. Instead of being proud of ourselves, we are Members of the National Assembly and we are trying to set things right for their own good. And so let's just go "this party sucks, this one's bad, you're..." are used to untruths. And, excuse me, with such a travel of present Members, when you go to the elections, everyone who has seen us will have a great backpack on the holster, and people will probably think twice before they choose someone who has done so in the National Assembly again. I will definitely support this, this amendment. I think he's good, and I'm not going to start the glories of the National Assembly by going to a project as big as the International Union of Universities, and by not going to a co-decision on whether or not we're going to a project like this. Mr. Vice President, once again, I apologize for misusing these things. These things are being abused all the time, you can see that the time of elections is coming and people are talking about content and people who are being burdened with these things are throwing big shovels of manure at each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much, especially for the content of your words. We continue with the debate, which includes the Secretary of State. Mr. Lesjak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome, of course, also students and students. If you would first allow me to express my satisfaction with the words of support from the Euro-Mediterranean University project and thus the material under consideration. I am pleased to say that, according to the information I have at my disposal, this project supports all Slovenian universities and is already or will be able to sign all letters of intent and are also prepared to sign a constitutional charter, which will provide them not only with opportunities, but also with the right to co-form the necessary legal acts and all the documents on which this institution will be established. In fact, the role of the National Assembly, which I have understood to be under discussion, should it be pointed out that, if I may use this term, it is up to you to make a decision on this matter. But of course it is to stress the following. It is an international institution that has already received all the necessary political support in a similar format of the Euromediteran Parliamentary Assembly, where, in fact, the MEPs of the 37 European Union and the Mediterranean are members of this Euromed Parliamentary Assembly. I have already said a little about the legal basis, and it is also true that what my colleague, honourable Mr Juri, has said, is that within the 6-month period for the creation of appropriate legal acts, of course, this activity will be devoted to a lot of attention and expertise and will be invited by all those who wish to participate and who can help in this, of course, who will also sign the Charter before that. As far as the role and rights of the students are concerned. This was a talk and also a great deal of debate on the home committee. Before that, we have also spoken or I have, within the framework of the Second Working Group of the Student Affairs Council, where we are, and I must particularly commend the members of the Second Working Group of the Student Affairs Council, namely, the students who, in spite of the principle of opposition, would say to the law because they were not previously aligned with them before they went into the parliamentary procedure, but were prepared for a substantive discussion, had good proposals, good solutions, which were professionally and otherwise justified and, as it seems, these proposals and solutions are also present and are visible in the amendments. As regards the role and rights of students in accordance with national law and with comparable institutions established within this framework, they are guaranteed both their rights and their obligations in the same way as those of our national universities, if I may use the term. It is membership as it will be prepared in all organs, as it is in our universities both in the board of directors, in the academic assembly and in the Senate. If I may be even more specific, in the end, Mr Member from Prekmurje Juban mentioned Prekmurje as a region where, I would say, not only in his opinion, the development of higher education is lagging behind, or is not present in relation to other regions in Slovenia. That's right. I must say that not only my personal opinion, but also the opinion of other higher education actors, that it would be very useful and necessary for the development of higher education in Prekmurje to be more visible and present. However, it should also be stressed that in other regions, with the legal options and formal frameworks that the Government has to provide adequate conditions for the development of higher education, this is largely left to regional actors in the region, to municipalities and also to actors who want and are prepared with great enthusiasm to develop higher education in individual regions. If differences exist in individual regions in this respect, it is likely that the reasons for this need to be sought largely in the region itself. And maybe just one brief explanation, because I also saw in the media a little while ago that there is a project linking the establishment of a Catholic university with the Euro-Mediterranean university project, I would like to stress here and say that, according to the data I have available, the applications for the establishment of higher education institutions from which a Catholic university is supposed to have been put into the accreditation process of the Higher Education Council a few months ago, which means, in other words, that the emerging Catholic University is in fact developing and accrediting, it is being established in accordance with national legislation, in accordance with the criteria for accreditation and the procedure also applicable to all other higher education institutions. If you allow me, I would like to thank all those who support this project and who are creatively, professionally, with solutions, or otherwise, helping to realize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	First of all, with one very very old river, I think it's coming from Greece that I'm not going to say "seven blues" to which, "can't answer" or explain, because this eighth simply sticks to one of its "fixed" ideas and just can't stand up to it. We were just talking about the amendments again. In fact, there are only two, although because of this topic on several articles, there are three amendments. I would like to apologize, but in the end I will also mention these two amendments concerning the situation with regard to the Secretariat of the RS Higher Education Council. Once again, I would like to point out that universities are being established with the decree of the National Assembly. Therefore, it would be useful to take into account the fact that it would also be right to say that consent to the establishment of the Euromed University is not referred to as the Euromed University, because here in this law the consent to the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University is already in place, but any other international union of universities, but it should be written that the National Assembly must give its consent. However, if he establishes this union of universities as a university, an international university or whatever, he will have to take a decision anyway. Secondly, it must meet the conditions of our legislation relating to higher education, including the union of universities. We cannot pass over simply because partners come from somewhere else and together form a union of universities, so that they will not have to meet the conditions of our law. The Higher Education Council must play its part. And once again, students, as it all appears, despite the various academic titles you are wearing, those who have debated today and have been gallantly accusing the opposition of opposing the establishment of one of the unions, have certainly not been involved in the drafting of this law, although they have visited the Ministry for February, here I exclude Mr Lesjak, because he was not involved in this matter, but we know that they were at the Ministry, offering their cooperation, but the Minister and her closest associates have said we do not need you. Under pressure, the Ministry was prepared to cooperate on the basis of the Higher Education Committee. As a result, we stress that one of the firm conditions is also those amendments, which speak of the conditions that the Director of this Secretariat must meet with the Higher Education Council, and that he should not be appointed President of the Higher Education Council, but that he should be appointed by the Council. For God's sake, what have we really come so far as to individualize completely every responsibility and authority that happens in our country? I think the students here are absolutely right. And I'm proud and happy that I was one of the ones that got [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We're at the amendment to Article 1. I note that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am concluding the debate on this amendment to this Article. We are moving on to Article 2 and the amendment of SD, LDS, Zares and Lipa. There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. I am moving on to Article 4 – the amendment of SD, LDS, Real and Lipa groups. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it would make sense to support this amendment. It speaks of what is enshrined in the amended proposal of the law and of the Secretariat of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education in order to ensure that the Director of the Secretariat has at least 5 years of work in the field of higher education and obtained the title of Doctor of Science. I think this amendment is such that it cannot be disputed. For if we really want a quality Secretariat, then we must not leave the members of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, because the law now states that the organisation and work of the Secretariat, the systemization of jobs is determined by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education. In everything else, I am in favour of not being defined, but as a guardian, that the principle will be met by someone who is of good quality at least by the quality of the city's occupation, but only by law would it be good to write that the Director of the Secretariat has at least five years of working experience in the field of higher education and obtained the name of a doctor of science if he will measure quality in higher education and will somehow be defined. At the same time, I think it would be good for the second sentence of paragraph 50a of Article to change so that the Commission is composed of an equal number of students, higher education partners, which is employed by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. The Commission is proposing to the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education and the appointment of the most suitable candidate, that is, perhaps you will, at least the position has always been opposed; God does not give such disunity; only the Government will determine everything with its own and whoever will be in it will be determined by us, but because we have already talked about this many times. And since the position and opposition here have always been on opposite shores, not only on this issue, but also on the issue of appointing boards of research institutes, it is likely that the opposition will oppose this, but could have tabled an amendment on its own, if this is too much, in order only to introduce this criterion for the head of the Secretariat into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I note that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am closing the debate on the amendments, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, that is in half an hour, 12.40. We'll resume the session at 12.40 p.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 12 noon and 40 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Dear Members and Members! We're moving on. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled to Article 12. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 10, for 37. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments, with a second reading of the bill under the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act, urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 18, for 36. We decide on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the amendments of SD, LDS, Real and Lipa's parliamentary groups are not adopted. We continue to decide on the amendment to Article 2 of the same groups of Members. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 16 to 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4 of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 17, for 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the domestic draft law would not have brought me into line. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act. Since the proposal for a law, due to the amendments adopted in the second reading at the meeting of the assembly, is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 42, which you have received on the bench. Anybody want a word? I guess not. There's no government representative. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. We continue our extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in five minutes.
