ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u1	Dear Members, please calm down, take your seats. I'm asking you to calm down again. I am opening the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(1) and Article 60(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Dr Marko Pavliha - from 17:00 on, mag. Milan M. Squeakle, mag. Franz Žnidaršič - after 5 p.m., Maria Possonec and Dr. Pavel Gantar. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 23 May 2008. Today, on 3 June 2008, a group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the agenda of this extraordinary meeting be extended by addressing the request of the group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Porč to decide on a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly on the adoption of a decision amending and supplementing the decision on the number of seats of Member groups in the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and on the decision of the parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly of 28.5.2008. Pursuant to Article 64, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall not vote on that extension of the agenda. The National Assembly will consider the request for a college decision as item 2 of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means an orange light must be on the right side. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and by agenda item 2. We vote, the vote on the agenda is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the agenda of the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. It's a day's work. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u2	I'm telling you, while I was voting, the card hasn't worked yet. He's working now, but he's not voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u3	We accept your notice. Pay attention and then give timely warning if there is still a problem with the voting device. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF DECISIONS RELATING TO THE PROBLEM OF THE CAPITAL CONCENTRATION IN SLOVENIA ON "POSTARY PUBLISHERS", AND QUESTION OF THE INTERMEDIATE PROPERTY CONCENTRATION RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENTAL RIGHT TO NOTICE. The draft conclusions were tabled by a group of Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mag. Branku Grims, for further explanation of the proposal for conclusions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, distinguished ministers and other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the seventh force - so I am gathering a very nice greeting! We wanted today’s special meeting to be held on a matter that, according to the dimensions, is certainly part of the National Assembly, we would like to express and adopt conclusions from our constitutional competence. Therefore, to ask the Government and other institutions for the relevant information that we urgently need and that is certainly the right of the general public to know, on a matter which has certainly been a public opinion in recent weeks. In addition, we would like to stress something else: we wanted to give and, by adopting the relevant conclusions, highlight a clear and unequivocal signal to the law enforcement authorities, independent institutions, as well as, after all, the judiciary, that there is no taboo in this country, and that no one is untouchable, no matter how much money he raised on some "post office mailbox" or obtained it in some other way. We must all be equal before the law, this is a fundamental constitutional principle, and this is also a principle that we would like to draw particular attention to by reference to today's meeting. In particular, we stress that the issue of equality before the law also means equality before responsibility. And that each of us certainly takes full responsibility for each of our decisions made in this Hall of the National Assembly, but of course we expect exactly the same from all others, namely, that everyone assumes responsibility for those decisions in which he has directly participated, especially those in which his word or his voice was of decisive importance. Since it is therefore a question of the relationship established in the Slovenian Constitution between the various branches of government, legislative, enforcement and judicial, and since it is obvious that the proposal to convene this meeting is within the limits of what is laid down in the Slovenian Constitution, as set out in the Rules of Procedure and thus laid down in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, we have certainly been uneasyly surprised by some responses. After all, at least one person deserves to be answered here, in the space that is intended for this, so in Parliament. It was obvious that we were abusing our sentinel function because we had proposed calling for an extraordinary meeting and taking appropriate decisions. This is a very unusual statement, which is difficult to find in democratic society. But we have met her many times in recent times. I would like to remind you that in these very days we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the events that announced Slovenian spring and later Slovenian independence. That was an arrest of four. With regard to the arrest of Janez Janša, Ivan Borštner, David Tasic and France Zavrl, many know that they were being tried by the military court of the former Yugoslav army, but almost no one knows today that they were actually arrested and imprisoned by the then Slovenian authorities. And with what did these people then justify their public conduct, with what did they try to make him look legit? Exactly in the same words that the four abused their rights to abuse the right to a public word, to abuse the function that individuals held. This final observation was particularly the case with John Janshoe at that time. From this point of view, the re-emergence of those same words after twenty years is only proof that some have a very high level of nervousness and that there is a clear bad conscience and bad conscience is a bad thing. For the same reason, it is in fact possible to understand some extremely sharp words that have been spoken, in particular by some SD Members who have surpassed the committee, where we have also discussed this subject, also the borders of pure personal insults and have also been a conscious deception, as they have spoken of things that have been said many times in public. Here too, it can be understood only from the point of view of the same thing, that it is again a matter of bad conscience. And what it is, in fact, is very clear when we look at just some of the materials that we have attached to our request. Let me quote Mr Stanislav Kovač: "The thug has become a millionaire with a red book in his pocket, because he was a member of the Pahorje SD through the transition, who, as the successor of the Communist Party through the transition, called for a bitter battle in social disintegration. Pahor, at the end of last year in the media, vehemently admitted that he kept in contact with Shrote as a member of the party all the time." And if I quote the president of SD, at the end of 2007, when he said about Mr Bosk Šrot: "I am pleased and proud to have a director or CEO of such a successful company in our membership. He himself will say, and I can confirm this that because of his basic obligations he is not a very influential party member." So at the time of all these events, which were also the cause, but not the only reason I have already justified for today's debate, Mr Boško Šrot was a member of the Pahorje SD. That is why, of course, this aggressiveness of some SD Members is understandable and in no way justifiable. I hope that today's meeting will take place so that we can talk as much as possible about things and as little about people as possible. For I firmly believe that the story which we want to enlighten today is such that it deserves all the attention of the public. Indeed, it is a story that is in some way the same as in other countries of former real socialism, communism, or whatever it is said. In fact, similar stories could be recorded virtually everywhere. The so-called transition included three key parts which are all essential for understanding the current situation. First of all, these are interventions into legislation, institutions, in particular the demolition of control institutions, and, of course, the recruitment of appropriate, fully politically defined personnel. If we just look at cases of legislation. See, in 1994, at the end of this year, this is also interesting from the above-mentioned fact, the story about the four. About what happened in the spring of 1994. At that time, Mr. Janez Janša was raised with a dirty game from the then government. And only 8 months later, there was a new penal code that brought about a reduction of penalties and thus of limitation, because they are in proportion, for economic crime and corruption. Only two cases: for falsification or destruction of business documents, which is certainly still current at this time, and this criminal code still applies, a new one that we have already voted in spite of the terrible opposition, which has used all the remedies that have been available to it so that it would not be accepted - have already known why, today is also seen for whom. Indeed, this new criminal code does not enter into force until 1 November of this year. And for falsification or destruction of business documents, the sentence is drastically reduced from five years to only two years. For unjustifiable acceptance of gifts, gifts of great value or blue envelopes, according to domestic corruption, the penalty was reduced from up to five years to a maximum of three years or only a fine of money - corruption lived! This was clearly the password that occurred at the time when these changes took place, and although at the time one part of the opposition, including Dr Jože Pučnik, strongly opposed these changes, there were no very long discourses in the public at the time on how a high level of consensus on such changes was needed. As an interest, which is also relevant for today's event, let me mention that at the time the law on pension and disability insurance was also amended, namely, at the proposal of Ms Rina Klinar, a member of the SD, was transferred to Kad from the establishment of the institution, that is to say and essentially from the pensioners' hands to the whole of Slovenia. What this meant, you can make an impression on yourself, but surely the sensitivity to the changes that followed would be greater if everything else were what it was. Let him mention, however, that when there were no changes to the legislation, it was also a matter of grave force. Today, many people have forgotten that the former Prime Minister-General, Mr Bandelj, in that period has actually made a real desant to the successor of the former SDK with the police, and then for this he has also obtained a judicial decision that has ruled that he should not do anything like this any more. All this in order to exclude that last active control institution during the period run by Mrs Roman Logar and to allow for the start of this long process that we are talking about today. Because the characteristic of this transition was that by establishing effectively inactive institutions, political staffing and amending legislation has enabled a process that goes in some way like a pyramid and has actually accumulated over a twelve-year period, up to the present, when we face it responsibly for the first time. The second part that enabled this was the concentration of functions in the staff. In fact, let's just look at one case. One person combined the functions of the government's Privatisation Adviser, the President of the Management Board of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the member of the Development Fund, the member of the Management Board of the Small Economy Fund, the President of the administration of the Court of Justice, the State Secretary for Economic Relations, the member of the Agency for the Market in Securities, the Director of the Capital Society, the Minister for Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, later the Minister for Finance, and, of course, the President of the Assembly of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is united by function. And it was all one man, mag. Anton Rop. In particular, I would like to warn you that if I appoint someone, I do not want to say that he is in any way liable. However, it is certainly necessary to know that we understand the important role of an individual in these long - term processes. Indeed, what was essential in these processes was precisely the political setting of people, both in the economy and in those seemingly independent supervisory institutions. However, when this was presented to the public, they were rare, but therefore so much more precious. Let me just mention one that I'm sure you all know. When this comprehensive political recruitment, both in the economy and in the supervisory institutions, became transparent for a moment, when the former Prime Minister, Mr Rob, yelled at the then president of the administration, Mr Zoran Jankovic: "Remember, politics has set you up! I set you up!" This was a valuable moment because the cameras recorded it and because today it helps to light things up so that they are in the right light and so we talk about facts; for if we talk about facts and documents, then of course we can also offer appropriate solutions. The process that took place took a long time and covered various branches of social life, including the various spheres of the economy. And a very important part, which is also essential for the possibility of the current situation at all, is the role of so-called pids, authorised investment companies. In fact, let me just point out how this process has been carried out. On 29 February 2004, about a year before the new government was led by Janez Janša, before the formation of the current coalition in the National Assembly, according to the source presented by Mr. Milan Cvikl, Matthew Lahovnik and Anton Rop, in explanation of the draft law on the pids they gave in 2006, they wrote themselves that on 29 February 2004 only 23 shareholders - watch out, only 23! - had more than 40 billion or 99% of everything that had survived, all others, more than a quarter of a million Slovenian shareholders, so those who had invested their assets or certificates in the pids at the time, had only 1% of their assets. This is said to be about 0.4 billion Slovenian tolars. This, of course, shows very clearly how long this process has been and, of course, has been practically completed at the end of 2004, because without the role of pids and others, everything that has happened could not have happened at all. Similarly, it is problematic in this work to understand the role of banks and, above all, the national banks of Slovenia. See, the National Bank of Slovenia is certainly an institution that has played an extremely positive role in setting up the Slovenian currency, as well as in taking over the euro. But she also has a control function. It should verify that the credits granted are adequately secured, that the standards respected are at least in some way those minimum standards that are normal in the banking business, so that these credits are also adequately secured. The big question is, did she do it? I firmly believe that this report, which is also required by a special decision, is urgently needed and will also have to be very critically illuminated. For it is necessary to be aware that all that we are talking about today can also have great economic consequences. All of these stories, first of all those 10,000 small acquisitions, if I say so, when the matter acted as a kind of pyramid, and until that end, were actually done on credit. And those loans were relatively cheap. Now, however, the international environment has changed and there can be a major crisis when new credits, new cheap money will not be available and then all those who had so much to say about national interest will be forced to sell all Slovenian assets to foreigners. Then we'll really be witnessing a sale to what some have been hinting at. But a large part of the blame in such a case will be borne with certainty by the very banking industry, and in particular by the National Bank, which apparently has not done enough in this part of its task. The processes, once started, took place in different ways. Two of them are, say, very important for the time being. The first was the acquisition of the Beerhouse Union by Pivovarna Laško. That was in 2001. This case is also important because it clearly violated the legal rules, including the abuse of the function, as the then Director of the Končnik Fund, who sold the shares, was also relieved. But here's another question. Where were the security mechanisms? Why was it not established those security mechanisms that are common in legal practice when it comes to large sums of money? For he made this sale, even though the decision of the relevant authorities was taken, that this should not be done in order to continue to allow negotiations and thus to increase the price for the share. Obviously, those who have just established a situation where they were not sufficiently functioning security mechanisms or were not at all in order to do so, and thus indirectly, at least objectively responsible for the current situation. You all know that Mr Milan M. Cwickl was very active in this function at the time and in the period before that, although he was very active in these matters, he also had many comments. It is also interesting that this takeover has taken place, although there is a record of a meeting at the Competition Protection Office, where it makes it very clear that such concentration would amount to almost monopolisation in this area, in the Slovenian market and is therefore not in fact permissible. However, it all ends with a simple conclusion - the Office for the Protection of Competition conducts all such procedures on a proposal and not on an official basis. No one has done anything, nor has the government taken any action to at least try to cancel or even eliminate that disputed stock sale contract. Therefore, objective responsibility, including for their failure to act, is borne by those who were then in power. And there's no way to attribute that to us. However, I warn you that without this acquisition and without the other things that I have stated, we could never have come to the present situation. Later, of course, there were many different purchases, acquisitions, but this is a common phenomenon in the economy and many things in this area have been tried in any way as problematic, some even dealt with by the European Commission - the Directorate-General for Competition, which, for example, is due to the insistence of some people in Slovenia, that Mercator's sale was controversial, concluded that there is nothing at stake and that this does not constitute a contested act in accordance with the meaning of Article 87. Treaties of the European Community. All of this ultimately led to a situation when this concentration is combined on just a few addresses, and ultimately it turns out that these addresses are still wrong and after people were once placed at the head of the agencies - say, these control institutions, which should have been independent - set up people can finally be replaced, because they need to know that they were very protected on the one hand - earlier with the law. On the other hand, if someone just hinted at someone being able to replace someone, you know that the real flood of political disqualifications followed; if politics wanted to take over independent institutions, the talk was about 'the Cadre Tsunami', the talk was about fear, all of which led to the fact that these people could not actually be replaced before the end of the term, unless they had resigned themselves. And those who were placed in the previous government under the leadership of Toneto Ropa, just before its end, in the last year of its existence with a term of five years, knew exactly why these people set up these institutions. As long as they were there, it was literally impossible to expose anything when they left, when new people arrived, and now all of a sudden, the data is sinking into the plan, everything that was previously impossible is suddenly possible and feasible. And the situation is in a way that we should be really worried about all of us, because it turns out that in Slovenia there is a billion and a half euros, which is estimated to be worth this property in public newspapers, to park on some "kaselc" company through a strawed person for a period of two years and thus to conceal actual ownership, that is essential. For there is also a question of at least two constitutional principles even here: that is, many times has been forgotten in the past years, decades and more since the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution, the 67th Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which was adopted on the proposal of Dr Jožet Pučnik, and by which law I must ensure such a function of ownership, that its social function is also economically ensured. Ask yourself, ‘ Is that true in this case? ’ Secondly, what is linked to this and perhaps even more crucial in the long term for the democracy of a country, without which all other farce is virtually impossible without which long-term development is not possible, the issue of the right to information is also a question of the right to information, since in this billion and a half on the "kaselc firm" is also hidden the property of a very large part of Slovenia's central public newspapers. It's a very big deal! And, of course, it must be counted that democracy can only work, provided that the constitutional principle, which states that every citizen, every citizen must have access at any moment to the right, comprehensive and from different angles of value, is enlightened information, only in this case democracy works, in all others it is a farce. And how could this concentration have occurred? The first and very important step was more than obviously politically motivated, the sale of the shares of the work during the time of only about 10 days before the performance of the Bajuk government in 2000, when a few percent of ownership was sold on the nose, on a quick basis, to some precisely known people close to the Forum 21 circle, as we could see later. However, this share was crucial. For without these shares, the country never had any majority ownership, nor through all its related companies, through funds, through all its influence, nor could it theoretically be ensured. This share was sold overnight. And now it's interesting. In the end, it was in the hands of Pivovarna Laško and is the beginning of their media concentration. Later this increased and it is also necessary to know that ownership in the media, when excessive concentration can occur, limits the media law to 20%. More is possible only with the consent of the Ministry. And in 2003, Minister Andreja Richter of SD approved the Lashko Brewery taking on a larger share, and at the head of the brewery you all know that Mr Tone Turnšek and Boško Šrot have been replaced - that is, again SD. Some in polytology called it "all boys network," I don't know how to address it in the National Assembly. But in any case, it is necessary to know that this is the moment when the second time the difference between the current coalition, the current government, and the previous one is clearly seen. For when it was later intended to increase the share, in some way, apparently after inertia, the Ministry of Culture, including in this mandate, had already agreed that the share could be further increased or transferred to the next company because it was more about the transfer of ownership. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole in the supervisory procedure, ladies and gentlemen, has abolished this decision and this decision is important if we compare it with that of Mrs Richter in 2003, because it also clearly defines the difference in policy to media concentration. Since this decision, which was issued in 2008, clearly states that, since it is a proportion exceeding 40% and represents, if I am precise, 49.8% in the whole market, no one should ever have issued a decision like that issued by Mrs Richter, and should never have allowed anyone, given the current legislation, to acquire more than 20% of the share. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very clear difference in politics! Let the actions speak, not the words! The second such difference that I have already shown in the introduction is that difference in criminal law. The previous coalitions have taken care of the reduction of penalties, the reduction of time-limits, and the new penal code have increased all of this, exacerbated it and extended the limitation deadlines and thereby extended the time-limit of justice. Here you can see exactly who is who. How important it is and how it can affect, I leave your judgment to assess the media area in Slovenia. At the moment, let me just introduce you as an interesting survey done only by analysing the content at the beginning of the European Union's leadership, which includes both the appearance in the newspaper Delo itself and in the Saturday annex of Dela. The comparison of political parties is interesting. In fact, on the forehead, far ahead of the others, the SD with 236 posts, followed by the LDS with 215, really with 213 and only in fourth place is the party which has the largest number of Members and from which the President of the current government is also of the kind, and has 204 publications. This is very interesting, especially if you make a sum. It's, by the way, a work survey, so no one would say it's biased in any way. But it is even more interesting to see how individual policies are presented. Of course, it is expected, given our leadership of the European Union, that, according to their own measurements, John Janša is most frequently mentioned. We can compare it with the position, because it is the government, which is the most responsible position in the country, and also holds the Presidency of the European Union, is not the President of the European Union, but is the President of the European Union, what is often said wrong, by comparing it with Mr Danil Türk as President of Slovenia. Here the number of posts is slightly lower, but interestingly, with Mr Türk we have only positive and neutral, and with the President of the Government the number of neutral posts is lower than the number of negative posts. This is said to lead the European Union, where from the outside we receive practically only and exclusively praise - people say, as well as you drive it, we did not believe that Slovenia is capable - but the number of negative articles in us is greater than the number of neutral and not positive. Well, for comparison, Mr Borut Pahor, where there is also one negative article, but the number of neutral articles is six times higher. Well, where does it lead to a position where capital in a medium can prevail, you can see for yourself if you have read in detail the material that we have presented for this meeting. In fact, we have attached two extremely interesting statements. According to Ms Starina Kosem, this share, this great concentration of capital on Del, is to be subordinated to Mr Gregor Golobič. If you remember the stories of how he once intervened even on television just before the 2004 elections, you'd say, well, the old habit is an iron shirt. On the other hand, now the retired responsible editor says that Mr Boško Šrot is personally, and recently, demanded that the absolute advantage of SD be given and it is also shown in a positive light, and that, I quote, "sow Janša". So, regardless of which one of these two you believe more, this is not important, it is obvious that now in the print media the situation that was characteristic of the state of public television before the referendum confirmation of the law on RTV Slovenia 2005, when dear Tone and dear Borut wrote and publicly argued, who of them has a greater political influence, who, therefore, is more politically in control of RTV Slovenia, which should be public, that is, of all. In this case, it is private capital, which is so much more fateful and so much more important. And of course, that shows something else very clearly. Especially if we shed light on this in the light of the destruction of the editorship of the former Magus, the current reporter. It's the only case. This government has seen everything possible with regard to the media, but the only case when an editorial was completely destroyed, when people had to physically go all the way out and create some new medium with enormous effort after a long period, is an example of Maga’s destruction. This is the impact of private capital. And this very clearly proves that, at this point in time and in fact, only the concentration of private capital can endanger the freedom of the public word. And when this is still linked to unclear ownership, this is something that goes beyond the question of law or injustice but interferes with the question of fundamental democratic and ethical norms. And that's why there's something worth lighting up from different angles. On the basis of all the material submitted, based on these facts, which we have also supported with a number of documents, some of them are first shown, for example, an example of these in relation to the concentration of ownership in the Work, so that they do not take note of the fact that we have not shown any new documents, but also of some other facts that have been presented, are equally true - on the basis of all of these we have proposed the relevant conclusions, 10 of them by number. With them, we very clearly require that in the cases of Pivovarna Laško, in the case of Istrabenz and in the case of Mercury, an appropriate report be made and that further conclusions be made to clarify what content should be. We also request a report on their conduct during this period from the National Bank of Slovenia, if I am precise, I suggest it because it is a purely independent institution, so that there is no mistake about any interference in its competence. I hope that these decisions will be adopted by consensus, without a vote against it, as was the case with the Committee, because it should be the principle of obtaining appropriate information that will be correct and based on the facts of something that I firmly believe should be the common interest of all political parties, as well as of all Members and Members. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] This principle alone is compatible with the principles of the rule of law, as the principles of the rule of law alone are compatible only with the principle that I have put at the heart of [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u5	Mr Grimes, it's time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u6	to verify the facts for all, to be equal to all criteria and no matter which colours [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u7	Mr. Grimes!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u8	is who and who, how much does anyone have on [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u9	Lock it up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u10	to his account. [[...]] The law applies to all in the same way and must be applied to all in the same way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u11	Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u12	implement. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u13	Thank you. The proposal for conclusions was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Frantz Ferri Horvath, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, in fact Director of the Office for the Protection of Competition, colleague and colleague and all present. You have received a written report from the Committee, despite the fact that last night we finished the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which discussed the proposed request for almost 10 hours, the material and finally the conclusions and also the decisions. The report is quite detailed on the 11 pages, there is no time to present it in more detail and there is no need, because you have certainly already flown it, at least if you have not read it carefully. Therefore, I should limit myself to some essential questions. At its 24th urgent meeting, on 31.5. and 2.6., the Committee considered the draft conclusions on the issue of the concentration of capital in Slovenia in postal collectors and the issue of the concentration of media ownership in relation to the constitutional right to information submitted to the National Assembly by the 27 Members and Members - the first-signed Jože Tanko, and a colleague of Grims had just presented this request and content. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of 27 Members and Members also submitted material and a proposal for conclusions which it subsequently replaced and those amended decisions were then subject to consideration and decision on the Committee. The meetings of the committee were attended by Mr Joza Tanko and Mag. Branko Grims as a representative of the applicants and gave a thorough presentation of the material and the proposal for conclusions, a representative of the Government, Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Jani Sorsak, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Competition Protection Office, Zoran Jankovic, former President of the Mercator administration d.d., Mitja Gaspari, former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which you have in writing, and would therefore highlight only two important findings, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u15	Nothing's wrong. I'm asking technical services how the gong got involved. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u16	Thank you. Thus, the Legislative and Legal Service, in the first place, pointed out respect for the role and competence of the National Assembly and, secondly, warned that the National Assembly, which also applies to the Committee, would not act as an investigative commission. Even as chairman of the committee, I did not intend to do this, and I think that those of you who were present at the meeting would agree that this was also taken into account. The opinion of the Government, which you have in writing, was forwarded to the Committee by Mr Minister and will be presented below. We have received proposals for amendments to the additional decisions, by the New Slovenia Group, the SD Group of Members, the Lip Group of Members and the amendment of the committee proposed by my colleague Ruglja at the meeting. After discussion, the Committee decided on the amendments and adopted two amendments, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, with a minor amendment, to propose to the Government to examine the possibility of drafting the bill and the amendment to the new 12th decision proposed by counterpart Rugelj, which you have in writing. The Committee adopted the proposals without a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports conclusions and supports an important message, namely that what we are witnessing is, in relation to the concentration of capital, in relation to strange things, such as events related to "mail collectors" and hiding behind them, that this conduct is controversial and that it needs to be clarified to the point. It is therefore also accepting the obligations arising from the conclusions, as well as doing everything possible to ensure that the institutions, which also impose certain obligations, comply with those obligations. Why? Because of our efforts in the Republic of Slovenia to create a legal environment that will promote entrepreneurship, capable entrepreneurship that will promote the growth of small, medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises, which will promote innovation, entrepreneurship, decency, work. And we want legislation that regulates this kind of business environment to prevent abuse, speculation, manipulation, concealment, abuse of internal information, concentration and unfathomable wealth. In fact, when we draft legislation and communicate it to the business public through Parliament, we want this legislation to enable growth. And legislation is only part of this legal environment and legal protection. It seems very important to me that the drafting of legislation is therefore only part of the activity of the rule of law. The acts shall be adopted by the National Assembly and shall be carried out by the competent supervisory institutions and courts. We must therefore all make every effort, especially the relevant institutions and the profession, to ensure that the actions of the actors are consistent with the purpose of the law and thereby strengthen confidence in the legal system. The approach that any abuse of the legal provisions resulting from the non-reaction of supervisory institutions and, subsequently, negative practices also has a very negative moral and media element and generates a stricter standard, while at the same time stifling those others who have no evil or intention to abuse this legislation. So, respectable! The preparation of legislative proposals and the adoption of legislative proposals is only part of the legal system. Surveillance, as well as an effective judicial epilogue, is another, as important, if not an even more important part. And in my opinion, he's been keeping that second part a secret. And this second part has kept to the point that we are now witnessing the harassment of people, the apathy and the feeling, the broader feeling that many people in Slovenia have happened to blame, because in fact, unsavory billionaires are born on its stings. This is not right, and that is why the Government, together with the coalition, wants and will do everything to get to the bottom of this, and to sanction violations as well. And there are conclusions in this spirit, so we support them, because together we are willing to do everything we can to get to the bottom of the matter and finally get the legal system in full: not just the government, not just the parliament, not even the control and the courts. I don't know, I'm sorry, not a single legal case that would point out and sanction an exclusive case, but believe me, in history, there were quite a few. Now, Your Honor, allow me to state some of the legal standards for which the Government is responsible and has drawn them up in this mandate, and they go in the light of the prevention of what may have been poorly regulated in the past. If I refer to the new company law and the key links in this law, to the concentration of capital, I can tell you that it contains measures in Articles 535 and 545 to increase transparency. Articles 544 and 547 and 548 provide for measures to increase the responsibility of authorities, management and control. Responsibility is further strengthened through Articles 263, 265 and let me mention only one very important concentration-related and systematically supported by the former authorities, which was abolished by this Government and Parliament. This is a limitation on the three mandates of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board. Earlier, the same person could have sat on five supervisory boards or boards and at the same time in five related companies, that is to say dependent companies. So someone could have been practically in ten control councils and tell me where the greater concentration of power is, the more powerful it is in such systems. This is this government, and this Parliament has abolished it in this mandate. It's just one of them, like, in sky-breathing cases. Furthermore, the Company Act strengthens the audit and audit liability provisions, the prohibition on the compatibility of the functions of an extraordinary and regular auditor, as well as the auditor's liability for damages. The whole set of provisions is also in the protection of minority shareholders, from Articles 384 to 389, 255, 328, 503 and so on. Now, Your Honor, the second law that regulates this subject is the takeover law. The takeover law has significantly expanded the scope. In addition to the minimum standard set out in the Public Shareholders Directive, the bill provides for mandatory application of the provisions of the law also for larger non-public companies, according to the original text, now, following the revisions of the takeover law, as well as practically with a large majority of the non-disclosure companies. For the first time, respected, the law applies to all entities, including persons who have been in privileged status in the past decade, such as Kad, the Court of First Instance, the companies of Commissioners, the successors of the pids of the Republic of Slovenia. And at this point, it is appropriate to point out the opposition's statements on the committee that the number of downloads has increased recently. Of course it is. Clearly, stricter legislation does not allow or severely sanction the silent acquisitions that have been large in the past, but now finally these actors have to come back and publish the takeover bids. The number of downloads published does not refer to the actual number of acquisitions that have been skillfully acquired through parking lots and abused the rights of small shareholders in the past. For the takeover bid means that it has also been given to minority shareholders, that they can exit at the same price as the "big one" has been agreed upon among themselves. And today we have some examples of silent takeovers where no takeover offer has been published, where some actors, although all have 25% below the threshold, in conjunction with coordinated action together, exceed the threshold, have practically taken over the company and have not offered a fair exit price to minority shareholders or have not made any takeover bids. Therefore, due to the extended scope of the new legislation, as well as to all other elements, these acquisitions have actually led to more. In fact, it is also possible for those who are minority shareholders in the companies taken over to pursue their rights. The takeover legislation has redefined the securities of the target company. In particular, a new calculation of the proportion of voting rights is also provided. Newly, most importantly, persons acting in a coordinated manner shall be defined and they shall determine the contentious and indisputable assumptions of coordinated action. This is said to suggest that when coordinated action is taken, it is significantly more acute and it is normal for actors, a number of actors, to be forced to publish bids. A fair price is set for a new one. It is very important that the acquirer must offer a price not lower than the maximum price at which the acquirer or the related acquirers obtained securities within a period of 12 months prior to the publication of the offer. This gives us the impression that small shareholders will receive the same offers as the big ones bought over the 12-month period. All parties, in particular workers' representatives, are required to be informed of all key elements related to the takeover offer. Sanctions for infringements, including the holding of voting rights from all shares, are being redefined. Indeed, the current takeover law has been much nicer and has only provided for the loss of voting rights that go beyond the threshold. According to the new law, voting rights are taken for all shares held by the acquirer. The securities market agency as a supervisory institution shall be given strong active legitimacy to bring a counterclaim in the event that the target company makes it impossible for the acquirer to exercise voting rights contrary to the law. In addition, considerable power has been given to the Securities Market Agency by this Act and an effective supervisory role. In particular, the law also increases fines. So, Your Honor, it is clear that after this, there was a much stricter takeover law, more takeover bids. For in the past Kad and the Court of Justice, the State empowered, were exempt from the taking-over legislation. If they increased the share above the take-over threshold, there was virtually no need to publish the take-over. And now someone's surprised there's more takeovers. That's right, takeover is a protection institution for minority shareholders. However, the abuse of the takeover law is another matter and, of course, I have to express my disappointment with the securities market agency, which, in my opinion, has been ineffective in carrying out its work as a supervisory institution and I repeat again, the legal system is not only exposed to legislation, because legislation, once again, has two sides of the story, on the one hand enables development and on the other hand must prevent abuse. And as soon as we sharpen it, it can be bad for those who want to use it in the spirit in which it is also written. Furthermore, the Financial Instruments Market Act, which was further upgraded and incorporated into the Slovenian legal order by the Ministry of Finance, laid down rules for disclosing the data of issuers of financial instruments offered to the public and traded in the organised market, and other rules ensuring transparency and integrity of the financial instruments market. Let me mention just one set of this legislation, which prohibits market abuse such as trade on the basis of internal information and market manipulation, which is, of course, also more substantively defined in the law and at the same time sets out a list of obligations aimed at preventing or detecting market abuse. So, Your Honor, the problem, according to my assessment, is important in people and not so much in legislation. We are prepared to upgrade the legislation on the basis of proposals at all times, and we have also done so, and we have also taken into account the opposition's proposals, that is, on the proposal of the opposition parliamentary group, we have extended the validity of the takeover legislation to a good share of the non-disclosure companies and we can further strengthen it. There's no obstacle here. However, if there is no stricter legal norm for each other effective control and a reasonable time-response of the judiciary is dead. And I fear that most of the cases that are likely to be given a concrete speech today are due to ineffective supervision and, of course, to the inaction of the other elements of the rule of law later. I am convinced that this government and coalition are ready to face these challenges, because crows do not turn off their eyes, and I believe that the actors who have been appointed here today and who today strike as those exposed, of course, are very close, if not to members of the parties who belong to today's opposition. And this government is a guarantee that control will be carried out effectively and that we will also receive a judicial epilogue. For, once again, I fear that these people themselves will not allow themselves to do so, except to do so. Finally, I would like this meeting of the National Assembly to help us to reach agreement that the rule of law in Slovenia must work in the full sense of the word, all elements of this rule of law and, of course, the Government here expresses all readiness and commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u19	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members! Today's meeting of the National Assembly should, according to New Slovenia's belief, contribute primarily to making the Slovenian public more objective and better informed about the various transitional non-ethical transactions, and in particular we, here in the National Assembly, should be more careful in the future about the unethical property ownership. According to our assessment, an extraordinary session will help people to be even more sensitive and considerate of such anomalies, machinations, which is also one of the ways to prevent such unethical acts. Monopoly in any sphere of social life means more expensive and less quality services, whether in the field of economy or in the field of the media. In Slovenia, with the transition to democracy in addition to the political system, we have also changed the economic system. Once confiscated property is slowly returned to their original owners. Unfortunately, even after 17 years, this process has not yet received its epilogue, some political forces have been responsible for deliberately blocking the process. It is clear that the Slovenian transition was carried out by former governments, mostly led by LDS. Inadvertently or unintentionally, the entire system under which the Slovenian transition took place was set up by allowing stories when individuals in a few years acquired as much property as they did in normal democracies did not create many generations in a row. The fact is that a number of competent institutions have not performed their control tasks in their own time. Here I am primarily referring to the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Agency for the Market in Securities and the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia. However, the latest developments in Slovenia show that the transition in Slovenia has not yet been completed. We are faced with a number of cases when a manager deposits assets that he doesn't even have yet, and he's just buying them. In court proceedings, it may appear that Mr "this and this" or Mrs "this and this" acted in full compliance with the law, but his work is not ethical. No one can write and adopt a law that would 100% include all the specific cases of real life. There is always a loophole in marriage, but there is an area of ethics that must not be overlooked in any area of life. What is the main problem of recent developments? The problem is that a small handful of people control a huge business system. But the great concentration of property is the beginning of the creation of the monopolies that I have already talked about, and these do not bring any good to society, to all of us, to all of us citizens and citizens. Modern monopolies do not avoid ownership or media institutions. What is the problem if a large business system takes over a media institution? Every monopolies want to protect their monopoly, only the monopoly brings more profits. In order to protect the monopoly, the business system is used by the media, which creates and directs public opinion, so business systems use the media to achieve their objectives. It's an eccentric manipulation of people. That some business system is trying to achieve its objectives and interests is completely normal and typical of all market economies and the problem arises when ownership concentration in key media is excessive. As far as media concentration is concerned, citizens' right to unbiased information is at stake. It would be very dangerous for the country to have a circle between politics and the media concluded. Such a closed circle would create a perfect monopoly because a business system through the media it owns would help a certain political option to take power. Then this policy option would in various material ways return favors to business systems that have helped them to power. This is the greatest danger for the state and citizens. Something similar is already happening on one of the central Slovenian printed officers. Just recently, the left-wing option, which was collected by Slovenian managers around Forum 21, enabled these managers to become owners of large business systems. And in the introduction, this research has already shown that these business systems are already returning this policy option. The circle is coming to a dangerous conclusion. We don't have much time left before it's finally concluded. We are in the month when we celebrate the national holiday, the biggest national holiday of the State, when we will remember the times when we first raised the Slovenian flag. At that time, we wanted not only a legal but also an ethical state. Today many wonder whether Slovenian independence is still a value. All human actions are accompanied by ethical dilemmas, whether we have done wrong, good or bad, moral or immoral. And these ethical dilemmas extend to both private and business. Business ethics has a strong impact on business decisions and thus on the performance of the individual and of the whole company. The relationship between individuals and business ethics is certainly different, depending on their personality, education, education, the environment in which they live and other social factors. Certain business decisions, although taken on the basis of the profitability of business projects, may prove problematic or even incorrect, especially if they are contrary to ethical principles. Therefore, if I assume that ethics in the modern business world is urgently needed and ultimately also useful for the long-term success of the company, and that corruption is unethical and harmful to society as a whole, then the purpose of this debate today is justified. Ethical issues are still quite topical today, both in everyday life and in the business world. In various literature we can see different, but among ourselves you are related to the definition of business ethics and corruption. Business ethics is a set of moral principles that give rise to business decisions. It's a well-known moral principle. Don't do anything you wish others wouldn't do to you. The development of business ethics in different countries or regions is strongly influenced by the environment in which businesses operate. Businesses must operate within the framework of legislation in force in a specific area, otherwise they are in breach of the prescribed rules of this economic area. However, the purpose of legislation is not to guide people’s behaviour in terms of ethics, but rather to guide them in terms of impunity or criminal behaviour. Thus, it is not necessary that all work is also ethical within the framework of prescribed laws. Or, in other words, that all illegal activity is unethical. The New Slovenia Group contributed one of the conclusions which was unanimously adopted on the Committee, which is particularly pleased. We want to focus on unethical management acquisitions. And if taking over is unethical, if acquiring some property is unethical, we can call it stealing. And if someone steals something, they have to pay back what they stole. This is the spirit of our proposed amendment, and I am sure that it will also receive support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, Members, Members of Parliament, good afternoon: Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group do not support the concentration of capital in a way that is questionable in any way in terms of legal formal reasons, nor do we support the concentration of capital by expelling small shareholders, by using internal information and by silenced parts of target companies that are market-interesting for subsequent disposal, thereby creating "extra" capital gains that are later used to repay the loans. No one has convinced us that buying a company in this way in the medium and long term will have no negative consequences, at least for the development of the company and also for the salaries of employees. The company will have to repay again in a relatively short period of time. Almost every day we listen to how our companies' competitive capacity is less than that of others. We are rhetorically wondering where new owners will find a reserve at new costs to increase competitiveness. Perhaps, however, these reserves have already come together through price increases and inflation, which simply means that we will pay the citizens anyway. I wouldn't specifically mention the danger to the banking system. We are convinced that many employees in target companies, doctors, university teachers, high school and primary school teachers, farmers, engineers, in short, most of the citizens who live on their own, that there is a deep dismay and a question in which these choices are better than all others. I am confident that the sense of belonging to companies will decline and thus have a negative impact on the success of these companies. Of course, we support or do not oppose the concentration of capital in a transparent way, without exhausting targeted companies, without unnecessary exposure to the banking system. In any way, economic legality, such as the market economy, free initiative, competition, of course, must be respected in a legal framework, transparent and for its money. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find this topic of exceptional importance and it is also more socially sensitive because it is an important milestone in the treatment of property of still undefined property. Because of the close proximity of the elections and the fact that representatives of the previous governments, especially the LDS and the United List of Social Democrats, now the SD, as well as the current SDS leader, knew what was going on, we express a certain scepticism as a result of this kind of treatment. We would like to draw attention, as the SLS Group, to the developments in the adoption of two laws, namely, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on takeovers and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Banking, which was supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group in the belief that it would prevent concentrations, stop borrowing credits for acquisitions. Unfortunately, what we pointed out in the SLS has come true is that solutions are not sufficient. Part of the reason is that the matter has a very long beard. That it started ten and a half years ago and that this has been monitored by all the government so far, there has been no action. And what does that tell us? We'd like to draw attention to Istria, Autocommerce, Viator&Vektor, BTC, poultry, state record, Mercury and so on. In the end, I'd like to ask a few rhetorical questions. Who was the one who made up the flawed or pre-prepared legislation in the past? Who set up regulatory and supervisory authorities? Who advised management? Who was the manager? In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that these are all extremely important issues, almost crucial for the further development of Slovenia, but if we are serious, we should not solve this right before the elections. While we support the conclusions proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group for the majority, noting that the problem is not only in Pivovarna Laško, only in Istrabenz or Mercury, the problem is broader. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, I would like to point out that, over the entire period since 1991, it is fully evident that we have systematically advocated fair and transparent ownership, preserving the majority shares of the most important companies in our own hands, which does not mean in the hands of a couple of individuals. We were able to prevent the wild privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company, the reckless sale of the Ljubljana Bank, ensuring that some of the biggest projects became the most important Slovenian development projects and not the hunting of brokers and margin seekers for foreign operators. Above all, it would be good to know what the views of the Slovenian People's Party were with regard to public procurement if they could be enforced and opposed by the then LDS government and boycotted the then entire opposition, including the SDS, today it would not be necessary to have actions "pure shovels" or against the tycoon meetings. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also touch on some of the concrete cases mentioned in these presentations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u23	Thank you. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Secretary! In the Group of Members, we really did not object to this extraordinary meeting because we have no problem talking about irregularities that are also the subject of this meeting. In all this mandate, as an opposition parliamentary group, we have tabled a number of legislative proposals and parliamentary initiatives to address these irregularities. Let me say that we have also tabled the New Law on takeovers, where I was first signed, and by which we wanted to regulate the management purchases of companies by which the financial assistance of the target companies would be disabled in taking over the acquirers, by which it would be impossible to provide collateral to the acquirers by the target company, by which the composition of the securities of the target company would be disabled with a view to taking over. But, unfortunately, this marriage initiative has not been adopted either. We also proposed that the Act on takeovers should apply to non-public shareholders, but it was not adopted. We will not talk about this until tomorrow on the Committee on the Economy. It's pretty late to ring the bell, we know. In short, we have no problem talking about this, because we have simply done a number of things that could prevent these phenomena, but as an opposition group, of course, we do not have a majority in the National Assembly. The public knows that very well. In the Group of Members, we also believe that we should talk about the whole type of irregularity at this meeting, not only in these two cases, but also in other cases where the country has a significant majority share, it has sold investments. Why is no one talking about the case of the significant inappropriate sale of Iskraemec, where there is likely to be a liquidation of the company? Why aren't we talking about selling the Nitrogen Factory to the Russians? Why are we not talking about the characteristics of the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, where there is a whole range of contentious issues? Why aren't we talking about the events in Paloma? We also have no difficulty in talking about this, because we have also constantly warned about these irregularities, and obviously today we are not willing to talk about it, and at least in this way we are protecting employees in these companies. Indeed, in the Group of Members, when we said that we do not oppose the call for this extraordinary meeting, we said that it would be effective only if the key players came and unfortunately they are not here today. Today, the President of the Government is not here to explain what was happening in his office on 12 August when Mercator was sold after the testimony of all other actors; Mercator was sold to obtain the ruling coalition's influence on Work. There is no longer a secret that the President of the Government has done this in order to have a direct impact on the appointment of supervisors in Del and Dinner, and he is not here today to explain it. Today his right hand is not here, the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who, at the time of the ownership "consolidation" of Istrabenza, was always sitting in the supervisory council, and was the direct supervisor of Mr Bavčar, on one side of the attack today, at the same time under the supervision of the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Predalič, who entered immediately after all this takeover was carried out to erase the traces of his work or not to begin in the Istrabenz supervisory council. I do not know any country in the European Union where the Secretary-General of the Government would sit in the supervisory council of such an important, private economy as Istrabenz, which is where he was appointed by the para-State Kad. I can't imagine what would have happened in some orderly democracy if we had an extraordinary meeting on the subject of the ownership "consolidation" of Istrabenz, that the Secretary-General of the Government was sitting in the Istrabenz supervisory council all the time, and we would have moved here and not been at this meeting as a member of the government to explain what was going on. Just imagine today's scene; we're talking about what's happening in Istrabenz, about the post office in relation to Istrabenz, and at the same time we have here a member of the Government who knows the most about it, this is the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr. Predalič. He's not here. We can't ask him anything. And you're talking about the fact that the Prime Minister didn't know anything if his secretary-general was sitting in Istrabenz all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe this, I don't know who you think the Slovenian public believes it? Do you think the Slovenian public believes that the problem in the previous government is for the duration of this government's mandate; twelve years of continuity, fifty years of foundation, and now you think if you repeat a little more that the Slovenian public will believe that you have sat in the opposition all the time, representatives of the SDS? That's not how it works. At least we would have brought the President of the Government and the Secretary-General of the Government to tell us what was going on at that famous meeting when Mercator was sold and what was going on or wasn't happening in Istrabenz. Never in Slovenian history has it happened that the President of the Government himself in his office would sell Slovenian companies directly as it was in this mandate. And never in Slovenian history or in the history of any other EU Member State can it happen that the Secretary-General of the Government sits in the supervisory board of such an important company as Istrabenz, so that the takeover they all refer to as a tycoon can take place there. At the same time, the Secretary-General of the Government is not here. But in Slovenia this can obviously happen. And that we will not now accuse each other of who is to blame, what is not to blame, of which no added value will ultimately be added, we have indeed drawn up in the Group of Members two conclusions, which I hope will receive support in the National Assembly if the previous legislative initiatives we have tabled, including laws, have not received this support. In particular, I would like to highlight our 12th Proposal for Decision No. 12, which would be amended by reading "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of drafting a bill integrating the Criminal Police Department for Economic Crime, the inspection part of the Tax and Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and to provide them with investigative powers to detect crimes in their area. This would create a so-called financial police, whose independence and autonomy should be ensured in a way that would appoint the Prime Minister in agreement with the Commission of the National Assembly for the Supervision of Public Finances. We know that this commission is always ruled by the opposition, and in this way it would be a truly independent and autonomous body to be called by the Government on the one hand, but in agreement with the supervisory body of this National Assembly, which is always ruled by the opposition, no matter what the relationship of forces between the coalition and the opposition is. In the Zares Group and in the party, we really advocate a model for the establishment of a financial police consisting of an inspection part of the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the economic crime departments currently operating within the Criminal Police. In view of the nature of its work, the financial police should be integrated and placed in the composition of the Ministry of Finance, and members of the financial police should have police powers characteristic of the criminalists, upgraded by the powers of the tax administration inspectors and the authorised persons of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way we will be given an independent and independent body that will finally be able to verify with credibility what is the source of individual property. Whether there is a discrepancy between what someone reports as having as property and what they have legally earned. If it is the will of the National Assembly to finally adopt one constructive decision and send a message to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then I believe that you will support Members and Members of Parliament. However, this proposal will also be lacmus paper, not least for who seriously thinks in the fight against corruption and customerism, and whether we are finally ready to do something operational in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u26	Dear Mr President, the distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, we have witnessed increasing social dispersion, and sensitivity to cases of unjustifiable wealth has become a legitimate step. We believe, however, that unjustifiable wealth and a halting of decomposition will not be able to be stopped by such meetings and media debate, but by deliberate normative measures. In this sense, even on DeSUS, where we do not have the rich, and we have no problem with it, because there are no rich people among us and we are not in this mess, the part of the responsibility for the unloving phenomena falls down when no government has adopted the appropriate legislation to prevent it. Nevertheless, we do have enough mechanisms in our country today that we could use so far to prevent the abuse of legislation, whatever it is, but we have not used it. The current nits go for ours at the expense of the elections. In view of the fact that a handful of citizens have gone through most of their assets in this mandate, we are convinced that the current government also has the greatest responsibility for the so-called tycunization. We were not involved in these processes. DeSUS is against unjustifiable wealth. DeSUS does not defend anyone in this regard. DeSUS supports the sanctioning of violators. Unfortunately, of course, no one asked DeSUS about this meeting or the conclusions that are ready to be adopted. We believe that in our country we have a different way of dealing with such issues and, of course, we do not believe that anything important will happen in the last three months, because the time has been four years to take matters seriously. Our electoral party is preparing some other program, such as this. Not with gifts at the expense of the state budget, not with populism, not with the mutilation of political opponents. We're out of this mess! We will abstain in our conclusions - we will not oppose, but because we are not co-drafters of these conclusions, we will not actively support them either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today the government should propose to the National Assembly something more concrete, more concrete proposals not so milky, and, of course, legislation can be adopted and amended immediately and now, not tomorrow, to the tomorrow if we are to seriously eradicate this kind of crime. The purpose and the will are not great enough, and I don't believe anything will change here. Reinforcement of the prosecution's work would also be possible immediately. As one of the interlocutors has already said, a special police unit, as other Western states know, should be introduced here. It is true that we had the will and desire to bring in new editors and give them uniforms and equip them with sprayers, we have no intention of doing so, as I have just said, and it is unlikely that this National Assembly will see to it. Mr Janša pointed out to this speaker when the interpretation of his work was that he knew where the capital of the modern-day rich was coming from, that he knew whose boats, boats, yachts, houses, but that no tycoon or tycoon had been closed since he declared it. After today’s session, will we really arrest someone for his wallet, asking him about the origin of the property? For we know that the source of wealth, respected and respected, can be verified at any time. We can do this today, now, with each individual. The one who inherited something is also known because he had to pay the tax on taxes. If he inherited enormous amounts of money from his dead aunt, you can see that, I don't think that's a problem. Today we'll probably listen all day long to you, you've been stealing, we're not, we're less, you're more, we're you. But we're not here. Slovenian national parties were not in these pigs, which resulted in 250,000 heads of hungry and poor people who probably lived in the previous system better than they are now, and you will also be judged at the final stage whether you are still trustworthy or not. It is a great shame for Slovenia to allow it, and not only this government, but the former government, too, did so. And, Your Honor, could you have the Bavkars and the Shrotches if the state hadn't helped them, this and the previous? Do you know how many billion euros there are? A billion euros is a lot of money. And I don't believe that one individual can get it just like that in a decade and a half, I just don't believe this story. I know Mr. Bavčar very well. He's my cousin, Primorac. More than a decade and a half ago, he was in Roška with me, with torn slippers, megaphone in hand, as a representative of the Human Rights Committee. I believe he didn't have any cappuccino at the time. He was a poor boy. He's ashamed to go today because he's got so much money for a spring meeting. He's afraid to meet people, probably because he's afraid he'll get some kind of egg in his head. But I believe these people are not easy. It is not easy for Shrot, not for Bavčar, nor for Klemenčič, who stole the largest insurance company, but also for the various "they" who paid for the money in the Housing Fund, as well as for others. I could count them, but it doesn't make sense. Since these people simply cannot be among the people, they hide at home like rats in holes. They can go somewhere else. They can go on luxury vacations, I believe that's true. But today Slovenia is more in charge than it was when we entered the independent path of Yugoslavia. And we have, as I said, 250 thousand heads of the crowd in the underwear and some extremely rich people. Are we gonna take those 250 grand off our underwear? Probably because now nothing's gonna happen and it's gonna steal away. He steals this government and steals the former government, so much more. To illustrate how this government steals, some sort of case. Interestingly, today there is no representative of the Court entrusted with a sum of 2.5 billion for the management of state property, it is not, it was not on the committee, not for the first time or for the second time. At least these two have no excuse not to come to this committee because the state has put them in this place. Today, the thefts are, you know, more modernized. This government just sells a company under the designation "classified" such as the General Navigation of Portorož. I am talking about a confidential document, because it is no longer confidential, they have withdrawn this label from the document, from this Decision. And this Decision states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to sell 43.20% of the total share of the general voyage for the purpose of providing compensation to victims of war and post-war violence. When I asked the Minister of Finance why he signed such a document in his office and brought the notary there, he denied it to me. But, look, this really happened. This document was signed at the Ministry of Finance in the presence of the notary; here is the notary record and the signature of Mr Andre Bajuk. We sold the company to Germany, of course, we have not done a careful inspection and supervision of the business that we should have; so have the shareholders. But it doesn't matter what the Public Finance Act says, does it? However, I will read Article 80, which states that before the sale of an individual capital company it is necessary to carry out a careful financial review. The adviser at the Ministry of Finance is Zarko Sajič, a well-known person to the police and this person was also sitting on the Commission for Budgetary Control. These are the methods of today's government. The former government has done this in a more crafty way, so that these pigs can be seen and learned only today in a transparent way. I wonder why today, for example, a document or a sale contract in the sale of a share of the General Navigation still has a "classified" mark, if it is a sale of the state's work. Why, despite the invitation of the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, the Court and Kad do not wish to give this contract. However, if we say that we are doing everything lawful and transparent in this country. How have we sold the Slovenian steel industry, and there is no need to stress it? You know that. That there is no Zlator's Maribor, no more Zlator's Maribor, that Henkel is not Istrabenz anymore Istrabenz or it's just on paper that it's already OMV, we know that we don't have tobacco anymore, we also know that we don't have drugs anymore, we know that we don't have any other company, because we let it sell. At the same time, we are talking about the rule of law and we are talking about the desire to establish social equality. These are fairy tales for little kids who don't understand these shit we're doing on behalf of the rule of law. And I believe that justice will happen, at least when people are satisfied and the law of the streets will come. And then it'll be too late. It'll be too late then. I am firmly convinced, respected and respected, if we are serious today, these conclusions that we have before us are merely principled, not one that can undo the consequences. Let's freeze our assets to these tycoons, put a special investigation into all those who've picked up over 100 million and then set a standard here. And we'll see how this money came into your hands legally or illegally. To allow the flag of unpurchased shares to continue as a guarantee in banks, when we are talking about management reviews, this is unacceptable. That's what we're doing today. We're talking about some principle, principle, honesty, consistency, who's going to believe that? I just can't believe it. Probably not anyone else. If you're really willing to make this mess stop, then let's take a decision here today, I know the National Assembly doesn't have this jurisdiction, but it can be ordered to the court to freeze the assets of everyone who's been insanely rich in the last decade and a half. This is normal in all other Western countries. See how others control the source of the property, and you'll see that it's beautifully arranged. I live near Italy. Those who are wealthy are afraid to buy a new car because the day they bought it, they have the tax police at home in the yard. Although we will not oppose these conclusions, what you are doing is likely to hurt you and you because people are not stupid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Sok, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u30	I, Mr President, would like to point out that the speaker has repeatedly said the same lie over and over again. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u31	Mr Sok, there is no replica to the presentation of the Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u32	That's not a replica. I'd like to see you. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u33	You will have the opportunity to debate in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u34	I would like to remind you that with regard to the signing of the contract, the Director of the Court has explained this several times to the public, but Mr Friend repeatedly repeats this lie that the contract was signed in Mr Bajuk's office. I just wanted to point this out procedurally because we're listening to this lie here in this room, I think, for the hundredth time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u36	Your Honors are here! I am one of those who believes in the Slovenian economy. I'm one of those people who believes in national interest. I am one of those who believes that it is better to keep the wealth of our country in Slovenian hands than to go into foreign hands. Some time ago, the Minister of Economy said that the sale of the Slovenian steel industry was one of the most transparent sales. We all know how that sale took place, and we all know what the result is. According to the firm belief of the Lipa Group, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have to chase with a whip. It is on the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this National Assembly to create such laws that will prevent black or non-transparent acquisitions. Our country, whether we want it or not, has decided on capitalism. From this title today, black capitalists mean that we want capitalism without the basic elements of capitalism. We have come into a period of so-called socialism, and all that we are listening to today, with all the parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, is purely sedition. In my opinion, I firmly believe that we are witnessing today the most valuable election campaign that we have witnessed in our country so far, both by the current government and by the previous government. No and absolutely no management takeover was possible without friendship with any government. Whoever claims otherwise today, ladies and gentlemen, is lying. Four years ago, at a so-called night meeting called the Triple K: customerism, corruption and theft, Mr Janez Janša became the then leader of opposition parties. He had what's called a WD-40 spray in front of him. This is the same spray with which this same gentleman, except that through other people today, speaks of clientelism, theft and corruption. At that time, our country or, rather, our citizens and our citizens believed him. Where are we today? After this same gentleman has had scissors and linen in his hands in four years to reveal or better prevent all the events mentioned today, which in all of us show resentment before the public, while all of us Members, at least those who read daily newspapers, knew about the above-mentioned matters already in 2005, 2006 and 2007, this same gentleman, Mr Janez Janša, is still spraying with the same WD-40 spray. And now the basic question of the duality of Slovenian politics. About the duality of those who had so much shame in themselves that they hoped to sign this request, for this extraordinary meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! The first-signed Mr Tanko and the last-signed Mr Grims have repeatedly voted against, both in 2005 and 2006, as in 2007 and this year 2008, against the proposals coming from the Lipa Group, including the other opposition parties, when talking about that legal parking space that allows all of this to happen against what we are talking about today. So transfer of state property to individuals who have to meet three conditions, but all of you have voted against this being discussed in the National Assembly. Today you are here with the greatest passion, joy, optimism, explaining to Slovenian citizens how this is the concept you have met in January this year. From this city, from the Chamber of State of the Republic of Slovenia, I hope to say, "You're lying!" I am not saying that these things have not been done in the past. I say one thing, however, if they ever took place, they took place in the mandate of Mr Janez Janša. We have the most management acquisitions in 2007. On the committee that took place on Saturday it was river, and I will start with my words: "Today I will cover my eyes, ears and mouth and say that it is not true that Slovenian legislation does not allow managers' acquisitions, it is a lie." On the basis of the authorization of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian Parliament has adopted laws allowing these acts, which is the first fact. And anyone among you will say that he did not know about it means that he does not accept Slovenian legislation to the extent that he should. I know about myself. As Saša Pece - Member of the Lip Group of Members, I have proposed a law on acquisitions. A takeover law that would prevent the concentration of capital unjustifiablely if there were so-called legitimate interest by local communities or countries or stakeholders. You know what happened? He didn't even come to the National Assembly for discussion. Why not? Gentlemen, because you, the one who claims today that only now have you come to know what is going on in our country, have said it. In the context of the Lip Group, we have proposed more than 20 debates in which we would talk about the Court, the Kadu, the "parking" of capital, the transfer of sales of state ownership of everything that generations before us or otherwise say - grandparents created. And no, first-signed Mr Tanko and last-signed Mr Grims voted against again and again. And if someone says that after three and a half years, only 75% of their government has come to realize what is going on in our country, ladies and ladies, then I can say with all certainty, and I believe that everyone will understand it with them, we say that the government of Janez Janša is incompetent in this area, but I will not say double morality because the government of Janez Janša is synonymous with double morality. I spoke earlier about the three elements that are essential for any takeover. Admit it or not admit it, but these are the facts. The first link between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and management. We all know that meetings, whether around current events, took place in the cabinet of the President of the Government or, in other words, Mr Janez Janša. That's when it began to negotiate the concentration of capital, despite being banned. The second element that is urgently needed is, of course, legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, who are now here, last December we had the last amendment to the takeover law. How many Members were there at the time of the amendment of the takeover law? Bore, they're fighting a little. Because until the matter came to the front page of the daily newspaper, it was not for so long that the MPs of the National Assembly were interested. And third thing, ladies and gentlemen, what is necessary for a successful management takeover? Financial resources. In current matters, those which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or otherwise, Mr v.d., has pointed out, I apologize, Mr Janez Janša, need financial resources. And who provided funds for current acquisitions? New Bank of Maribor and Nova Ljubljanska banka. But do I tell you what the characteristics of these two banks are? They are both totally dependent on every single current government. In this case, we meet again with the answer to the question of who consists of the Government - Mr Janez Janša. Put your hand to your heart, I don't care what happened in the days of Mary Teresa. If we're a Slovenian nation, I'm not going to say, well, whatever, because you understand me, what happened before 1999, before 1950, or at least in the time of Maria Teresa, where will we get to? To a purely political debate. And what's this one for? We know the answer, every single one of us is an election campaign. Nothing else. But, let me tell you, the New Bank of Maribor and Nova Ljubljanska banka is setting up in both boards, supervisory boards, directors of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, whoever today will talk about non-transparency and the law enforcement authorities, whether it be the ATVP or the Competition Protection Office, there is nothing they can do about it, from this city, from the State Assembly payphones I also say - you are lying! And what is the basic "message" that we want to tell you, the two-way politics, in the context of the Lipa Group, or I can't tell you. Whoever says after three - colleague Jerovšek laughs, probably because of ignorance, I sincerely hope not for anything else [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Yes, Comrade Jerovšek, you too are two-faced because you are not willing to spend 10, 30 hours reviewing laws, but you blindly believe those who show you how to vote. And this offers, and now I am telling citizens and citizens of our country, not you, because we have spoken to you for four years, if someone offers a different policy, a policy that must be at the scale of people, not a policy that must be according to what you create, capital friends, not least the previous government, so it is necessary to change the mindset. The same is true of judgment and sin, but it is only out of ignorance that you support the activities of capital friends and later, 30 days before the elections, you ask yourself how this is possible in our country, while it is you, or rather, that the National Assembly has made all this possible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that after three and a half years, when someone has scissors and canvas in his hands, when they have all the institutions of our country in their hands, he says, "Fuck it, now I have learned that so-called processes are taking place." We need to label Slovenian policy briefly as a dual-face policy or, rather, as a policy of manipulation of the Slovenian state. But before you do, answer the question, are you our citizens? Before me, the speaker was talking about 250,000 people who are hard to survive from month to month. The President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, denied them to Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš's parliamentary activity and erased them from our area. He didn't want to call an extraordinary session. However, you have prevented the debate in the National Assembly for all those who are difficult to survive from month to month. But so vehemently and everyone in full swing ensure the existence of duality and inadequacy within the National Assembly. Given that my time is unfortunately limited, ladies and gentlemen, if you are really looking for at least a part of the words that you are exposing to this speaker and which you will later expose, in the Lipa Group we offer you a proposal for a decision that, not backwards, not for yesterday, not for four years or a hundred years ago, because we know that there will be nothing out of all of this, but which offers you for tomorrow, for six months, for a five-year decision to stop immediately our country's privatisation procedures that take place through the largest parking lot, these are the Court and Kad, who are in the hands of the Minister of Economy and the Prime Minister of Government. Support this decision. If you really care about making things transparent! But, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not support this, your words are so precious that I sincerely hope that the Slovenian country has overlooked this two-faced game. The decision will be put to the vote in all likelihood tonight. Then show me how many of you are together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of Moment, Mr Černač. [[...]] Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was waiting for you to warn me after the speaker's conclusion, when, from a place where there is no room for controversy, he said in the presentation of the parliamentary groups, colleague Jerovska, whom I know for 12 years, he called himself a two-faced man. I think he's earned at least a mild warning from you, so I'm making a procedural suggestion that you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u39	I agree with you that speaking in the National Assembly is primarily below today's point in danger of being very offensive. But, unfortunately, I said that once before, it's a freedom of speech tax and there's no replica on the replica. You have a procedural proposal. Let me finish. I think whoever's hurting is showing their face the most to the audience in here and to everyone who's following us. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Nemo crime monitoring, irregularities [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u41	Mr. Pache, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u42	The procedural proposal is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u43	Not a debate. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u44	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! At a time when Slovenia records favourable macroeconomic indicators that last week have enabled us to adopt a rebalancing of this year's budget, showing a budget surplus of 0.2% of the gross social product, at a time when the number of newly created jobs is increasing from year to year in Slovenia and at a time when the number of newly created jobs is increasing from year to year, 35.200 of them have been created in the last three years, at a time when we record the lowest unemployment in the history of the independent state, at a time of stable conditions in the area of pension and health goods, and at a time when the external factors of the economy, which, unfortunately, do not have a significant impact, increase in the price of oil and food, we are facing the problems of the independent state, at a time of stable situation in the area of pension and health goods, and at a time when the start of the new economy, which, which, unfortunately, we do not have no significant impact on the rule of the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law and the rule of law. We're wondering why. Because of the fact that the most important decisions took place prior to the amendment of the legislation in this mandate and because the independent regulators, who have been recently led by those who have been appointed in previous mandates, have not done their job. We cannot possibly accept the thesis that one of the former LDS ministers launched during the debates at the Committee on the Economy on Saturday, who, in the meantime, changed his jacket from blue to orange when he said, quote: "When we open the lid and see what is underneath this tycunization, they are looking out of the SDS heads of key members of the party," end of the line. But he didn't name any names at all. The capital media oligarchs we are talking about today, ladies and gentlemen, are known in Slovenia. They have a name and have an appropriate political color. And outside, Your Honor, are the representatives of the Social Democrats, the LDS and the Zares. These are the heads that look out of these caps. The main of these is from the Social Democrats, with two breweries, Radenska, Fructal juices, and a large part of the media space via Del and Vecer. The second is the LDS representative, owner of a number of companies, besides the marina, Terme Catež, DZS controls the second part of the media printed space through the Dnevnik newspaper house. Those are the heads. We could count them. We do not find any SDS representatives among them at best. At this point, however, it must be stressed that it is not good to trouble everyone after a long and long period of time. Those companies and those which they owned in a transitory manner and in accordance with the applicable legislation are not disputed, so that the interests of small shareholders, jobs and what is most important to ensure their continued economic development and relevant business competitiveness have been safeguarded. The problem, however, was that those who took advantage of the empty space acted in secret and did not pursue exclusively economic objectives in their work. Someone said something about where you saw the country. Where else did you see the country that some employee shows up as the richest Slovenian woman and we all just look fat? We are talking about the issue of concentration of capital in Slovenia and in postal collectors and the issue of concentration of media ownership in connection with the constitutional right to information. And if we shrink to this level, we can say that we are talking about the new Slovenian capital and media oligarchs, who have become in a hidden way, far from the public's eyes and with the aim of controlling both capital and media, and unfortunately also the political space in Slovenia. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the fundamental problem of this debate today. The problem on which politics in the National Assembly must say very clearly and firmly that it will end it and that it will not allow Slovenia to become a prisoner of these interests. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have requested an extraordinary meeting on this issue because we do not think it is good that the policy at this point is diverging. Politics needs to be unified here. It is a question of democracy, the question of the normal development of Slovenia in the future, questions that go beyond narrow electoral mathematics. Slovenia achieves favourable economic results, we are in a favourable development environment. A key challenge for policy today is to answer the question of how to redistribute these results to a wider range of people. Surely imprudent concentrations that create capital and media monopolies are not the right way. If we ignore the very basic question that arises to every average citizen at these events, where a member of the SD or the LDS can acquire some ten million euros for the purchase of capital and media shares, it is crucial to answer the question of how to become the owner of billions of assets with a few ten million euros. To answer this question, we have to answer it a few years ago. We have to surrender in the period when the privatisation began, somewhere in 1994. That's when we all got the certificates, and with them we got the peds. In fact, 1.3 million and 70% of all certificates were submitted. Pidi is supposed to be transformed primarily into mutual funds after a certain period of time. That didn't happen. It should have happened by the beginning of 2004. At the beginning of 2004, the transformation was completed and at the time 23 shareholders in Slovenia owned 99% of the capital of pids. That the then policy assisted this process and that it did not prevent it, although it had all the levers to do so, the statement of the then and present Member of Tonet Anderlič of 2004 in the Tarč programme, I quote: "If the Government," the government of Rop said, "wanted to bring the law on peds through parliament, I would also take it out," at the end of the line. The law was adopted in this mandate, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, apparently too late. What is most in sight at this point is that in these cases it is a case of so-called legal corruption. Thus, when capital owners, managers are formally or informally linked to policies for the purpose of law-making, interest groups are allowed to maintain or adopt private benefits. And that's what happened before 2004. If we look at this action in the past, we cannot get rid of the feeling that these authorities that should have acted did not, on the one hand, act when they should or, on the other hand, have made themselves known when it was necessary to protect one of these oligarchs in public. The hottest case has been recorded in recent times when, for example, the Corruption Commission has put itself in a very credible way to protect the President of the Viator&Vector administration, and completely shuts down when it is necessary to talk about the conduct in which senior SD or LDS officials are involved. This story obviously continues from the past, and we are still not immune to these processes. The market regulator, who should play an active role in these processes, I am thinking mainly of the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities, has been appointed by you gentlemen. Their mandate only expired recently. At that time, longtime directors Andrej Plahutnik and Neven Borak said goodbye. The last one is very difficult. In any case, he wanted to discredit his successor. Remember, at the time of their direction, we have witnessed, above all, the findings that the intervention of these institutions is not possible in any of these reverberating cases that we are witnessing to today. But look, in a very short time and under the same legislation, appropriate procedures have been initiated. Is it really just because of the incompetence of previous leadership? I find that hard to believe. That the policy assistant to these processes has been general in the past, also witnessed by a decision of the Ministry of Culture in 2003, which allowed Pivovarni Laško to increase her share of the work over 20%, as did then Minister of Social Democrats Mrs Andreja Richter, for example, Jožet Lenič's conduct, is the LDS MP and policy who allegedly hid the law twice as high, the appreciation of the Triglav Insurance Company and is just before the discharge from the post of Director Kad sold the share of the work to three of the LAGs to friendly companies. By then, ladies and gentlemen, the media concentration had begun, and it had also happened secretly. The same applies to the Diary and many other cases. In this mandate, ladies and gentlemen, we have committed ourselves in the coalition treaty to a gradual and transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy. It was precisely because such procedures would no longer take place, but mainly because we wanted a modern, demonopolized, competitive and fast-growing economy. In such an economy, politics has nothing to look for. On the part of the Social Democrats, the LDS first criticised us for doing this too slowly; this was at the beginning of the mandate. After these sales started happening, we were criticized for doing this too quickly. And all of a sudden, we've also been given an inkling of the fact that we're going to sell the family silver - forgive me where the family silver belongs, if not in the closets of citizens and citizens, in the case of Triglav - and there will be nothing left for the craftsmen. As you know, the government has adopted a recommendation or guidance on how to sell state shares or shares of state property, that is, on the shares of the Soda and Kad, although it does not have direct powers over it - this good year after the elections - by which it divided the shares into three groups. In the first group, investments that are not listed on the stock exchange were the main criterion for maximising the sales value of investments. In the second group, there are market investments; in these respects, the guidance was that they should be managed as a good host with a view to maximising the value of assets. And in the third group there are investments for which the time limit on sales is not appropriate; these are the shares of national-important companies, airlines, airport, airport, Triglav Insurance, banks and so on. In short, what is important, in all these cases sales were provided in a transparent manner, by maximising the price achieved and maximising the benefits for businesses and employees. The result of these processes is a surplus in Kad and Sod. At the Court, this surplus amounts to EUR 635 million, unlike the deficit we inherited in 2004, which amounted to over a billion euros. In the past, the key people in the Court were Mr Rob and Mr Milan Martin Cvikl. During their period, 825 investments were sold. Most of these with direct sale, the Italians would say, "sotto tavola," under the table. Probably the result of these sales is also a lower price achieved and thus an enormous deficit in 2004 which we inherited, amounting to over a billion euros. There's a lot of these cases. Let me just say one from my environment. Liv's case. The Idrija Collector was not allowed to buy a share in Liv from Kad at the price of 11,702 Slovenian tolars. He bought it later from Mr. Igor Lach at the price of 35,700 tolars. By, of course, cleaning up the previous company properly, dividing it into a number of companies, and this maximum profit resulting from this title was much, much higher. This was the way, unlike what is happening now and which you oppose and report to him, most prominently in the field of the Slovenian steel industry, where public sales, 8 interested parties, 3 bids, reached the chosen highest price. And General navigation, where there is no price problem, was achieved after the negotiations and after the bidding the highest price. The point of the Treaty between the State and the Court of Justice between the State itself is that the State's share has been transferred to the Court in order to achieve a higher selling value. And about Mr. Speaker in Istrabenz. Mr. Predaliè, as you could see from the media, withdrew the moment he found out about things that he could not have known about as a member of the Supervisory Board. Mr Podalič is not a member of the FB Investments Supervisory Board, nor of Maksima Holding, which carried out certain procedures in connection with Istrabenz. And the moment these things came out to the public, he stepped down. If I may conclude. In the field of legislation, we have adopted the Law on pids and the Law on takeovers during this period. The previous takeover laws were passed in 1997. 1997! I do not understand Mr Lahovnik, the former Minister of Economic Affairs at the time of the Robbery Government, who had every opportunity to amend this law not to do so at the time, but to influence these matters only when he landed in opposition benches. I just don't get it. But no matter what. Even if this gesture of his was an aid in changing this law, it is welcome. But the law has changed in this mandate. The problem isn't the law we have now. The problem is that we had no amendments to the law from 1997 to 2006. That law allowed for the biggest wave of so-called management acquisitions when managers and owners of management companies took over authorised investment companies that were created by the collection of ownership certificates. The law allowed parking spaces and only the current law allows these parking spaces to be disclosed in this way, as we have seen in the case of Colonel. They have also been amended, as you know, by the Banking Act and the Company Act. With regard to the financial police, the SDS, when it was in opposition, proposed this mechanism and we have no problems with that. We are only afraid that we will have the same people we now have in the various supervisory institutions and that we will not achieve a better job with the change of organisation alone. It is necessary to change, in addition to a change of organisation, thinking, to put those who are capable of doing this work, and then we can expect results. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On Saturday, someone on the committee said that this story was linked to the elections and continued in such a way that Mr Rob, as then president of the LDS and the government, lost the elections precisely because of such stories. But look! I wonder what you're telling us now?Oh, my God! After three years, you are telling us, Mr Rob wants to return to power, indeed, in a second disguise, under a second brand, but he is still very much present here, not here today in the hall or he has just arrived and I welcome him. Mr Gregor Golobič, who was in the background taking care of all these processes in the past, returned to the political scene. True, he is also in a new, not blue, but in an orange dress, but with the same people and the same content. If anyone's applying this story to the election, it's you. We have opened it because we want to adopt very clear political conclusions in the National Assembly, giving clear support to the competent institutions for action in this area. I am sorry that the vote on the committee surprised me. Decisions which I believe were not disputed in any way, but which, in the case of uniform support, mean a clear political orientation and unity that is necessary for effective action, unfortunately you did not support the opposition committee. I believe that this course of action demonstrates the credibility or implausibility of statements. So what is the difference between 2004 and 2004 between ladies and gentlemen today? With all due respect, your activities during the time you were in power, and your actions talk about how the then policy assisted these processes, in many ways. By not adopting the necessary legislative changes in a timely manner, I have already said about the pids, about the acquisitions, by creating in the public eye the basis for what has finally happened in our mandate, under the cover of public interest and the apathetic relationship of independent institutions. Today, however, we are in a situation where current policy wants to prevent these processes and wants to create transparency in this area. That's an essential difference. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the conclusions, not fear responsibility, on the contrary. The purpose of this meeting is, after our adoption, to give the competent institutions in the country a clear signal that they must prevent the playing of legislation and thus the emergence of capital and media links, which we have seen in recent days that are not good for Slovenia, are harmful both to the development of democracy and to the development of the media space, especially for the further development of the economy and for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and thus to the development of prosperity in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished other members of the government's suit, respected colleague and colleague! First, I will begin by criticising the applicants of this meeting today and the leadership of the National Assembly. You showed your attitude towards the very problem of corruption and clienteleism and also to the opposition in the National Assembly this morning in determining the time for today's debate. You've given the opposition over two and a half hours to discuss, and you've given yourself more than seven and a half hours. That is why, of course, I propose that you simply exclude the opposition from such a discussion. I think in these seven and a half hours today, you're going to show and tell the most about yourself. Regardless of this discriminating nature, we have always been in the Group of Social Democrats, and we will also be ready to participate in the future and to seek solutions and proposals for a more fair distribution of former social property. However, this readiness is not linked to the basic intention of this extraordinary meeting, which is called upon by the SDS Member, not by the entire coalition, to discuss again only the period before 2004 and nothing about the last four years when this period was most favourable for the concentration of capital. Moreover, at today's extraordinary meeting with the proposed conclusions, we urge the Government and the supervisory institutions to do what is their primary task and duty. Instead of listening to me in the National Assembly, what their assessment of the situation has been and what measures they have taken, you will give us 7 and a half hours of convincing and teaching us about history 50 years and more ago. I am talking about Members and Members of Parliament in particular the largest party. It's a long way from here, 100 kilometers from here, you can see that someone from the chicken house is stealing chickens. And in these frauds and thievery, except in some individual cases, usually individuals from or close to government policy are involved, four years ago someone said in this same hall, not for this speaker, but in the bench. At that time he was loud in the opposition, today he is silent in power. I expected the Prime Minister of the Government to be able to have a face and step in front of Slovenian taxpayers and take some more than 5 minutes of time. While I expect him to be able to do so this afternoon in a series of media headlights for such an important topic as corruption and clientism. According to you and all of us, this is a problem. And the opposition has been pointing out this problem for four years. The information on this problem is very clear. In 2001, one takeover took place, in 2002 one takeover, in 2003 and 2004, in 2005 when you took over power, four takeovers, in 2006 three takeovers and in 2007 11 takeovers and this year, when we are only at the beginning of the 6th month, eight takeovers. It was only during the time of this government that 26 acquisitions took place. And this concentration of management acquisitions in 2007 makes sense in the National Assembly. Why has this concentration occurred, where are the causes and reasons, whether this is due to the implementation of your coalition programme on the disposal of state property in the last four years? Above all: What we are or what we will do to prevent this from happening. Everything else is a repetition of what's already been seen. This coalition has been singing about corruption, customerism, Forum 21, about SD, about LDS in this same Chamber since 2004, for 72 hours at extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and on corruption and on the interpretation of the then government. If you've forgotten, let me remind you. This year is 2008, not more than 2004. And today you're trying to repeat the story when you're about to declare war on a tycoon. You want to take people who are thirsty over the water again, just like you did four years ago. I don't think you're gonna make it this time. You underestimate people too much. If the government had a real motive, to deal with corruption and clienteleism, it would have worked systemically for all four years, with the appropriate legislation and the political means available to you. But what you're doing these days is no different than a cheap election campaign. If you admit it or not. Just two more months, then it's vacation time, we've got until the election. And you come to do whatever you do until then in this government. If the government had a real motive, as I said at the outset, then today the Prime Minister of the Government, Janez Janša, who knew much about these things in 2004, knows and knows today, and I think he knows the most. You refer to independent institutions that have not worked in this mandate. Why did you act just now? Because it simply suited you that the friends who met in August 2005 at Janez Janša's office on Gregorčičeva 20 had distributed billions. In view of the presentation of one of the colleagues to the Members of Parliament today, I hope that in a few years you will not be able to frame Janez Janša as a member of the SD, because he was a member of one of the predecessors of the party of Social Democrats and because he met with Mr Srot and Bavcher, who you today associate with the Social Democrats. Today, you chose these same friends with whom you made cow deals to target the concentration of capital, corruption and customerism. Today it has already been said that it is not just these three entities, that this is much more, and that much more has happened in this four-year term. Former Secretary of State Andrijana Starina Kosem wrote in a letter to Prime Minister Janez Janša in June 2007, quoting: "I was told that after Pivovarna Laško has acquired an important capital share in the newspaper house of Work, we will have a long-term impact on the appointment of the supervisory board of Work and thus on the editorial policy of this house. "Furthermore," that my feelings were that the country, the reader of the government, had no intention of losing its influence in the economy, was my addition, it turned out that, at the end of May, Minister Vizjak called me to himself and told me that he had spoken to the President and that he wanted me to resign as Secretary of State and as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Capital Society. I replied that I had agreed with the President to withdraw until 31.8.2007 in accordance with the Government's Regulation on the incompatibility of functions, but to withdraw from the Supervisory Board When there are no reasons, as there will no longer be a conflict of interest. Visjak replied that the Ministry must, and I stress this, have a direct impact on Kad, which was fundamentally contrary to the intent of the government regulation on irreconcilability of functions, or this is just the idea of a regulation essentially negating." The end of the quote. This is the practice of this mandate. As is the suspicion of billions of damage to social property under which this government can be signed. "We won't answer because we don't account to anyone," is the eternal answer. Many parliamentary questions in the National Assembly, as I have asked them many times, have not been answered or are not answered by Slovenian taxpayers, even though it is a matter of damaging their money, not their private capital. Arrogantly, the government ignored all the opposition's calls a few weeks ago. Moreover, even work on one and the only investigative commission led by the opposition is being prevented, showing that even epilogue could occur. The government coalition will obviously do everything to prevent the scandalous purchase of eight-wheelers. Therefore, many stories were not obtained in this mandate: Mercator, Paediatric Clinic, Iskraemeco, Paloma, TDR Metallurgy Ruše and so on and so on. Taiwanese stories are happening at a time when this government has all the means and leverage to prevent this and, last but not least, to prevent it. It's not. Why, of course it's a question. Because in this process, she was also a participant through the Capital Society and the Compensation Society. At the beginning of her journey, the ruling coalition prepared the ground for what you now call a tycoon political relationship. It reduced the taxation of capital gains by half. Enable management takeovers and lower tax burdens for the richest. In the summer of 2006 in Parliament, opposition Members insisted that it was necessary to make the managers' purchases of firms in dispute more difficult. In fact, managers bought without the company’s capital by setting up shares of the target company for a bank loan. But for the 2006 coalition, this was not a problem and they rejected all the proposals and all the initiatives from the opposition and said that this could not happen with us. Today, two years later, of course this is a problem, and this is a priority problem. And it's a real problem. The last year before the elections, the ideology turned. At the beginning of the year, the coalition adopted a new law on acquisitions and a new law on banking that prevented the flag of the securities of the target company from obtaining the bank guarantee. And the fight against the tycoons began, which is nothing more than a struggle for the same coalition's own shadow, especially the largest ruling party. I will therefore conclude with an assessment by one of the retired ministers of the Janša government, Dr. P. Damian, who said: "They won the SDS in the elections due to the alleged impure deadlines of the previous government coalition and due to their alleged clean hands. Voters rightly expected them to operate more efficiently and more transparently. What's the situation four years later? Has the former opposition managed to build a more efficient government macroeconomic policy? Has she managed to curb economic crime and resist the temptations of governmental clientelism? I'm afraid the answer is negative, strongly negative." [[End of quote.]] And that's it. If the SDS, as the initiator of this meeting and the coalition in the National Assembly, need political support for the Government and the supervisory institutions to do their work more effectively in the fight against clientism and corruption, then they undoubtedly have it in the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u48	Mr President, respectable colleagues and distinguished colleagues! Today, we have a very special presentation and a very special perversion of the SDS. What's going on? The ruling coalition essentially puts most of those with whom it has concluded non-aggression agreements on the disgraceful pillar, including all those who have tried to understand that it is necessary for it to have peace during the presidency. Look, Slovenia is trying to represent itself on the outside as a successful island, and on the inside the ruling coalition shows that everything is rotten, that everyone is stealing and that the ruling coalition can't do anything about it. And again, she points to those who for more than four years left her to do what she wanted. What's perverse if it's not perverted? How did this session go? By actually booking most of the time for this debate, if we subtract those considered to be only, I will say, for the special majority of the required votes, she has provided herself with more than 5 hours of time since the good 10 hours. First for the proposed SDS, then for the government ministers, who are SDS, and then for the SDS Group of Members. We have these three-headed limbs, which have also fully benefited from the National Assembly for its great performance. And that things would be even more absurd, here before the public's eyes black, that it had overlooked after four years of rule, that legislation had been set up, which apparently did not understand that mechanisms had been set up, which were obviously not part of it, and that things had gone their way because they did not have absolutely absolute authority. Because they didn't have absolute absolute power. Look, this is what they're selling us, I'll say, this is Mrs. Visjak, Mr. Grims and Mr. Blackach. That they are powerless by law, that they are powerless because their people do not control all levers and that they are powerless because they do not have perfect authority. And as a result, they expect to be given absolute authority at the next election to make things right. Mr. Visjak spoke here about some judicial epilogues. I'm asking him which charges have already been filed so he can talk about court epilogues. This is where he deceives people. Mr Visjak and others were repeatedly asked what happened to the various arrangements. We know about Mercator because the people who tried to make the deal were fighting each other. I wonder how many arrangements have been made in the various cabinets and especially with the President of the Government, where they have not fought and where the acquisitions and distribution of the spoil have been successful. That would be interesting to see. It would also be interesting to see the minutes of these meetings with the President of the Government. We can't see them. Mr Černač spoke here on behalf of the Group of Members, saying that the Secretary-General, Mr Krodalič, was a member of this Supervisory Committee in Istrabenz until he saw it coming. Didn't he see his current account coming in for the meetings all these years? He didn't notice that? Did he have to read in the newspaper that he is in the supervisory world and that he has large incomes from somewhere, but that he does not perform his duties in the supervisory world? Of course, it's the intention of you not knowing that you need to be relieved. Did the first man of the Government of Mr. Speaker dismiss him as Secretary-General? No, no, no. Please. Well, I would, Mr. Blackach. So incompetent an official who just gets the money doesn't know what he's doing, I'd definitely get rid of him. But I must tell you, he was also invited by the newspapers after various other government officials had to resign, why he did not resign. And he was just defending himself, saying he was the secretary general, and the other was the secretary of the ministry. I would like to see Mr Bajuk here today and say Mr Žiga Lavrič. There has been a lot of talk here about the controversial way in which these purchases are financed. I would also like to know under what conditions Mr Žiga Lavrič, who, as the supervisor of the NLB, would certainly have had an insight into these things, would approve tens or hundreds of millions for the purchase of such a company. I really want to know if I can get that money myself. Mr. Lavrich isn't here today. You replaced him, I'll say, with an even more party man, with Mr Marinski, so I expect someone on behalf of the SDS to tell you how this is going. How the surveillance is going on and how all of this has nothing to worry about. If this is a question, and it is not irrelevant how these ransoms were financed, then one of the answers is that in these, let's say, in the notes, "state banks" where you have no reserve everywhere comprehensive control. I don't know why you're moaning here before this meeting if you and all of her minions could get rid of these things. In this way, in five hours, you will essentially be harassing others about how powerless you are in these matters. Of course, the questions when this really is an incredible concentration of ownership in individual companies that are being asked are relevant. I can't understand how such enormous assets can be made within a few years. I want to be clear, and I want responsible people from the government to help. When you convened this meeting, also because we counted, as my colleague Horvat said, that this accusation could begin, we had a domain within our group and within our client to support all people who could say something about it, whether or not they had ever been associated with our client. We did not insist that he should not go to the meeting, but we felt we needed him to come as many as possible. Unfortunately, I will say, the people of the current government, during which most of the work took place, did not participate in these meetings. I ask you whether you will demand responsibility, fellow SDS, for officials of the current government because they have not come to this meeting. That would be interesting. Surely everyone in Parliament would support such a decision, because I find it painful to hear here that no one knew anything about it. To say, Mr Drofenik, that the SLS had never had anything to do with any government, and it is a wonder how this happened. And I'll also say, colleagues from DeSUS who say they're one of the great poor, and they don't even know what's going on in the government. I am surprised that such a government is supported, where they are dragged, I will say, after a long and tearful ear, where all of their lunatics are made, but I am afraid that they are making fun of themselves when they are bartering here, that they do not know what is going on in Slovenia. We know that these concentrations are concerned, we know that there are gaps in the laws, that some have already been discussed here today, and that they have been invested in even a little bit more LDS in time, and they are now being advocated practically throughout Parliament. But the National Assembly refused. So what do we expect from this session? We expect from this meeting that SDS, like this triedin limb, will file accounts. All the people I've been listening to are pointing to you, to your people, to those you've appointed to the various supervisory boards. You will hardly expect us to give you an explanation for those processes that have taken place since 2004. Very hard. Authorisations for such sale of shares, credit authorisations, mergers were given by officials and officials in your governments. Someplace, however, it can be seen that Prime Minister Janša’s long hand was also illegal. It's illegal. But when there was a commission in Parliament to investigate the Mercator business, you know what happened. You packed this deal into a number of other problems and prevented the opposition from investigating it. Of course, we know that it is also the fault of one of our former swallows, who speaks faster than necessary, that this could even come on a day, but it is business for the opposition. This meeting is convened in a similar manner. When it was said that it would be necessary to lay down accounts, you started talking about previous governments. We are happy to talk about previous governments and future elections. But as we say, we'd like your people here to answer. Many people, not just me, from entrepreneurs who have nothing to do with us, would be happy to hear from Mr Bayuk, his boss Janša and his supervisor, how can he obtain such large loans for the engagements he may have on ownership or ownership or other projects. Please say this, and then let us continue to accuse one another. I'd like to see the conditions we'd like to give, and from there we'll talk about who's responsible for something. For once that much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u49	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor first. Or if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary has raised his hand. He shall have the right to participate at any time as the applicant. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would really like to re-emphasize some of the things that were obviously then, I don't know, succinctly reversed in the performances of the groups. I have to say here that financial assistance or fictitious business is, that is, when a target society helps an entity that is banned all the time. And they're banned now. This is in the Company Act, from Articles 247 to 253. This standard is enforced, these transactions are null and void, which means that if they are also made on this basis, it has no effect on either back or forward. I don't know why they'd re-involve this standard in the takeover legislation if it's in the economic constitution, that's in the Company Act. And that's all from 1993 on. And to listen here that we did not accept one amendment that would arrange all of this in the takeover law is seductive and, of course, not true. This way is forbidden or transactions are fictitious and are null and void. And again. The financial assistance of the company to gain anything through this financial assistance is, of course, null and void. This must be determined by the competent institutions. And that's the problem. That is why, honourable Mr Školč, I have said that we have upgraded this through a series of measures in the legislation and have made it effective enough, according to our assessment. And we never said here that we were powerless because of the legislation. That's not what this booth was said for. The legal system is based not only on legislation, but also on the supervision of the judiciary and, finally, when the supervision submits its proposals to the judiciary, it is also a court. And here I have seen the problem and yet I see it in the functioning of the legal system in the Republic of Slovenia. Now a little bit to control. Personally, I have been very critical of the functioning of the Securities Market Agency and have expressed my concerns about their inaction, in a matter of fact. You yourself passed a law protecting the director of the ATVP as, I used it myself, a polar bear. And that's true. And you were the first one to scream, with all the changes at the beginning of the term, about the personnel tsunami, what we're going to do. What would only be here in this house if then a coalition or anyone came up with an idea and a change of law that the government could at any time relieve the director of the ATVP. I think there'd be a lot of people's tsunamis here and stuff. And maybe it was our fault that we didn't do it, and that, I would say, the inefficiency indicators also had the powers and the ability to replace human resources. Dear Mr Školč, the LDS appointed both the Director of the Securities Market Agency and the Director of the Competition Protection Office for a five-year term of office, just prior to the expiry of the mandate, as well as the Director of the Competition Protection Office for a five-year term, the supervisory institutions. And here I attach to Mr. Chernach that I believe this is not a coincidence. With this you turned the worm into the inefficiency of the control system in the Republic of Slovenia and shouted at the beginning of the mandate on the human tsunami so that someone would not be replaced by someone who blew into the same horn. Well, that's the problem, not that anyone here is relying on some incomplete legislation or anything like that. I am of the opinion that it is likely that this legislation can be further upgraded in certain segments in terms of prevention and so on, but this is a slight non-implementation that we have witnessed over the last ten years. And I believe that now the authorities, after what they are doing and also, in fact, the effects of this work, will finally come to the bottom of this matter and will act, in particular professionally, independently and to all entities alike. Regardless of the colors, regardless of the nest they come from, the revisions or those under control must be in the same treatment. Dear Mr Kumer, I would like to say that I am very pleased that you believe Mrs Andrijani Starina Kosem, as you quoted her statement when she spoke to me; I have been quoted there several times myself. Then please believe in the signed record of that session where you say something else has been said, which of course is not identical to what was written. Therefore, if you have a hundred percent confidence in these indications, then in fact, keep them in the cases of all the indications made on its part. And then I don't know where the ideas of a meeting are on this topic on Gregorčič. In short, I would like to say that the opposition's proposals, which have been tabled in the takeover law, have regulated the management "by-ute", but in the cases we are talking about today, these are public shareholders, both at the Pivovarna Laško, the Investment Centre and Istrabenz, Mercator, etc. These are public shareholders, which are subject to a very harsh method of taking over, and it is not true that any proposal that has ever been made by the opposition would contribute to any other epilogue that we have today. It's not true, it's simply not true and I'm prepared to face it from article to article. These are, of course, convenient excuses now, if you had suggestions, we ignored them and the result is what it is today. This is simply not true, because these proposals were for purely different cases, for non-public shareholders who are therefore not listed on the stock exchange and in these cases some specific procedures have been put in place. Today, we are talking about companies that are public, which are quoted on the stock exchange, which are subject to the takeover law and therefore a relatively high standard of rules and also of supervision. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. It's a replica of a fellow schoolboy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, it would be very short. I have never questioned or commented on Mr Sorsak's performance, and I wish him to be more effective than his predecessor. We agree here. But I asked you something else. Who do you expect the court to convict if you haven't filed any charges? Please answer what I asked you, not what I didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I can give you a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u54	Yeah, very short: guilty. In particular those who do not comply with the law and are at risk of being punished. However, this is determined by the procedure that has begun, and I believe that the guilty will also be seated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Comrade Kumer, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! I know you were not at this meeting on 12.5.2005, but I do have statements from four actors from this meeting, except the President of the Government, the cabinet of the Government has given a second interpretation and I have no reason not to believe Mr Šrot, Matjaž Gantar, Zoran Jankovic and Andrijana Kos Starina. I have no reason to believe that they have given their explanations in public about this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Can we continue on the basis of the list of applicants? Thank you. Member of the Parliament, Mr Kovačič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone. Tycunisation of the Slovenian economy, financial fraud and speculation and concentration of private capital in Slovenia are phenomena that have not occurred since yesterday, are phenomena that have been occurring and appear for many years and appear in this mandate and have appeared in previous mandates when another government was in power. What is it that makes it possible for all this to happen all this time? I think it's three elements. One is the legislation that was adopted during the previous mandate period, which was quite inadequate; the other is the conduct of the government itself, which at that time was quite passive and without the will to allow this to happen; and the third is the human resources policy that placed people and leadership in regulatory institutions that did not exercise their powers. It was only in this mandate that matters began to be discovered. I believe that now that this has occurred in the Securities Market Agency and in the Competition Protection Office, there has been a change in the possibility that further research and action will also take place on this basis and that these things will actually come to an end. And when Mr Borak led the Securities Market Agency in a period of time, he signed under the pseudonym Veno Carbone, when he strongly opposed Slovenia's independence - he did virtually nothing during his term of office to control and perform what was imposed on him. The same was true in the Office for the Protection of Competition, where Mr Plahutnik did not carry out his duties. And only with Mr Sorsak's arrival did things start to happen and the office started to work, as it should have done before. And when we talk about the fact that this government has scissors and linen, we need to know that it is not possible to change legislation overnight in order to become more effective, it is not possible to change overnight all the other measures and regulations that are necessary; and it is not possible to replace all those who are more effective and more committed to their duties. That is why many things have happened in this mandate because of the weaknesses that have been committed in the previous term. At that time, what did Mr Kos, who led and led the anti-corruption commission, do? Nothing at all, nothing has been done in this area! And we all know what happened when this national assembly passed the law that brought the powers of this commission to another institution: the shouting about the human tsunami and so on, when on the other hand you are talking about why this government did not do what it could, because it has scissors and canvas. No, he doesn't. He doesn't have it all. This government must also respect legislation, respect for the functioning of regulatory institutions and, of course, only gradually can it create a situation where it can act more effectively, and it does so. And it's only now that things are starting to happen, and it's only now that things are starting to take action. On this basis, I hope that the law enforcement authorities will also request in their investigation from the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia to review, for example, for a period of ten years the assets of the gentlemen who were active participants in these private capital concentrations in Slovenia. For example, Mr Šrot, Mr Bavčar, Mr Kordez, Mr Petan and Mr Jankovic are the most exposed individuals who have been involved in these private capital concentrations that we are talking about today. When it was also said that in recent years, most acquisitions have occurred in recent years - because acquisitions are not in themselves problematic if they are carried out transparently, transparently, honestly, legally and so on. This is not wrong in itself, but we do know that in previous periods there have been hidden acquisitions under the table, and in these cases, of course, we can talk about practices that are contrary to all the standards, that I do not speak against the law. That is why, of course, it is necessary to discuss this and also to do everything possible with this position of the National Assembly in order to give impetus to all enforcement authorities and law enforcement authorities, to carry out their duty to act, to ensure that these matters come to an end, to the final epilogue, and that appropriate judicial proceedings and convictions of those who have violated and acted contrary to the standards that exist in this country can be reached at the final stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Member Ferry Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I will answer only one segment, or one question, where some coalition members have already spoken at a committee meeting on Saturday and Monday an incorrect and false statement. In view of the fact that only the President of the Government and this government have responded to the irregularities that have taken place at the time of the acquisitions in recent years and have proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of certain amendments to the laws. Moreover, it has been made clear that what the opposition has done, that it has not previously pointed out the problems that are happening, which is in fact its primary task and would normally have done so. Clearly, those who have spoken such things are either uninformed or deliberately lost their memory. The facts are different. Let me give you an example. In autumn 2007, the Group of Social Democrats requested an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on the Economy on acquisitions, management buyouts on the basis of loans with questionable guarantees and possible or probable negative consequences, both for the banks that have given these loans and for companies that are likely to be exhausted, the outflow of small shareholders and so on. At the 38th meeting on 13 November, we addressed this issue and at that time some coalition Members, as well as the Government, challenged our claims and proposals and argued that the takeover legislation and the law of companies gave the supervisory authorities sufficient basis to act in the event of infringements. Following a thorough discussion, decision number 3 has been adopted, I have it here in front of me, that no one would say that I am referring to the mind that says this, I quote: "The Committee proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible to examine the possibility of amending the Law on takeovers, the Law on Economic Companies and other legislation, so that loans to banks cannot be obtained by the flag of shares of the undertakings taken over and that the takeover transactions are thus illegal." The fourth decision was then adopted, which states that by the end of January 2008 the Government should submit to the Committee or provide comprehensive information on the implementation of the proposal for a decision on the sale or withdrawal of the country from the economy. There has been no report until today. As a result of this meeting, in December 2007, the Government introduced a new law on takeovers into the legislative procedure, which was adopted. And the following novels are now in the process and will be discussed tomorrow on the parental committee, on the Committee on the Economy, and it is likely to be on the agenda of the June session. And a second time. At the beginning of January, following an urgent procedure, the Government introduced a new law on companies, which was adopted, and then the Minister announced, and this also happened, the next novel was prepared, which we will also consider tomorrow and will be held at the June meeting. As we know, the banking law has also been amended, which has limited or prevented such transactions. Unfortunately, it all happened too late and when the train had actually passed. There was already talk about the supervisory authorities so I wouldn't repeat it. Once again, I would like to point out that, despite the fact that the previous government has appointed some supervisors, the Government has had in its administration a number of human resources changes, in its supervisory boards of economic companies, in its administrations, to take action in this sensitive and important area, if it is aware of its responsibilities and would like to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Procedurally, my colleague Grimes' proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u62	I wanted a word as a motioner, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u63	I'm sorry. You have the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u64	Thank you. For it is time to make certain claims [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u65	Comrade Grimes, I'm only asking if for a second you can switch off as a motioner. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u66	Thank you. Look, it's time for a few answers to some of the allegations, because I'm afraid that at least some of the debates show the possibility that then the debate is going in that completely wrong direction, as it went particularly on Saturday, when it was discussed in such a way that, let's say, what kind of a meeting was discussed by people who were never at that meeting, but they know exactly what was going on at that meeting. That they explained what anyone thought, people who - I don't know - might have a chance to see into someone's head, but I personally can't believe it, and I would just suggest that we talk about facts and documents. Everything I said in the introduction, I also relied on credible documents. And allow me to continue now on behalf of the applicants in exactly the same way. This is why I should first introduce a credible document, an official record of a meeting of representatives of some companies with the Prime Minister of the Government, which was on Friday 12. 8. 2005 in the premises of the Government, Gregorčičeva 20 in Ljubljana. I quote: "The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Janez Janša is on 12. 8. In the afternoon of 2005 at the headquarters of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, he had a working conversation with the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy mag. Mr Andrijano Starino Kosem, Mr Igor Bavčar, President of the Management Board of Istrabenz d.d. and Mr Boška Šrot, Deputy Director of Pivovarna Laško. The meetings were held at the initiative of the Ministry of Economy, where representatives of these companies presented a challenging issue on their visits to the Ministry, which they considered should be presented to the President of the Government. The Ministry of the Economy wanted to explore the possibility of just getting involved and drawing attention to problems in the governments of the South-East countries. Istrabenz d.d. and Pivovarna Laško d.d. have presented their plans in the South-East markets and their difficulties in achieving these objectives. The Slovenian food processing industry has many problems in achieving entry into these markets, which remain largely closed to Slovenian products, especially in the Croatian market, controlled by a strong Agrokor corporation. Beer shop Laško d.d. and Istrabenz d.d. They also presented their plans in this area requiring inorganic growth through acquisitions and at the same time informed the government of the difficulties in operating and negotiating with traders in both markets. At the same time, they asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to assist the governments of the south-eastern countries. The government has promised and briefed representatives of both companies on the preparation of structural reforms and other changes that will contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the only official document of a meeting that you've all discussed a lot and had incredible theories and incredible ideas about what was going on there, but you all know what you're saying. This document completely puts you on a lie, because it is the only credible document that exists about it. However, there were also statements that had already been made, both before the investigative commission and before the courts, because there were even some judicial proceedings in connection with the meeting, but those who claimed that something else was going on there lost that trial, as far as I could follow the media. As a matter of fact, you've got a man who's embarrassed. The one who declares in his entire voice that the content of something else, even though he has now changed his mind that he was not really quite at the same time, is actually the man who, first of all, as the director of a well-known company, was inspired by the then head of government, Mr Rob, to have him politically set up by politics and to remember that. Then in some business, after his own statement, he was played by two other partners, it is said, burned in a company, and finally replaced by private owners of that company the day the country withdrew and apparently no longer had a political background that owed him this function. And in this case, it's obviously a personal account, and please, if we want to have a serious conversation here, and I think that this National Assembly is responsible to the public for its public responsibility to talk seriously, let's talk about concrete documents. However, if you go to this level, to whom you believe more, but I have previously warned that Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem claims that the problem of capital concentration in the newspaper house Work by Pivovarna Laško, read now that it is clear that it is actually ownership through the "kaselc firm" of Boška Šrota, a long-standing highly respected member of SD, for which the president of SD has specifically said, during all this event he was a member of SD, and that Gregor Golobič is now trying to subordinate this newspaper house. However, it is also the opposite of what is said to be the former responsible editor who says that even now after this apparent breakup, Boško Šrot insists that it is necessary to support Pahor’s SD in all ways, force it, privilege it in the newspaper and that it is necessary to demolish Janez Janša. To which of these two you believe more, it doesn't matter, but I have already warned and I warn again, this reflects a key problem, what an untransparent concentration of capital can represent for freedom of public information. Now this media space is clearly in that position, such as RTV Slovenia before the referendum victory with the new law, when "dear Tone" and "dear Borut" argued in newspapers, or more controlled by SD or more controlled by LDS Radio Television, which should be public, that is, of all. And now, in this case, when "dear Borut" and "dear Tone" are still together in the SD, he has apparently jumped in as Mr Gregor Golobič's reserve and this battle for media subjugation by capital owners, who, of course, are close to the previous authorities and not the current ones, as Mr Lahovnik is trying to suggest, is apparently continuing. The one who is the victim of this is freedom of the public word. Once again, the concrete consequences of this work are already present. The story by destroying Maga's editorial system has another very interesting dimension. This is chronic evidence of how unrealistic it is, how grave malignment was that petition about how the state censored the media's offices and subjugated them, and I don't know what. This is the only such case that the entire editorial system was literally destroyed, uprooted, people had to go out and create a new weekly Reporter so that they could survive so that they could publish. And that's what private capital did. And only private capital really threatens the freedom of public words in Slovenia. It's not just my opinion. This is also the opinion of a number of people who are professionally involved in the media. And whoever's holding their eyes before that is closing their eyes before an extremely important topic that touches on the very foundations of democracy in Slovenia. That's a key question. Look, two more words about the credibility of individual speakers. Earlier there was a picture that I had seen on one of the televisions yesterday, when suddenly - you know, amnesia is a terrible phenomenon in Slovenia. It's such an epidemic that I don't know what's wrong with our health care. That some simply do not remember any of the signatures on the document they gave. Yesterday, for example, it was just like today, just like when you want to cover up a fact, it's like a fairy tale, or you're lying! And it's just so easy to suggest. This is amazing what a low level of political culture is in some opposition representatives. This has happened here today. Now let's see the truth! If what I said was denied before, I will quote the material under which, ladies and gentlemen, the signature of Mr Milan M. Zvikl was given on his own, you see his signature, Mr Matthew Lahovnik, who forgot about it yesterday and claimed that it was not true, you see his signature, and also Mr Rope, and this is his signature. I hope it's good to see it on camera, or I can make it bigger. It won't be the first time. And let's read the quote, their quote, which they wrote themselves in explanation of the bill's document that they tabled. "The similar dispersion of the ownership of the pid is also evident from the ownership structure of the pids on 29 February 2004, which is the year before the start of the new government, so that on this day on average 99.98% and 259.056 shareholders of all pids own less than 0.4 billion tolars of assets or each individual pid shareholder in this class have on average less than 1,632 tolars of assets, while 0.0098% and 23 shareholders of all pids own more than 40.1 billion tolars of assets of all pids." This, ladies and gentlemen, was said in the introduction; some wanted to deny it again. This also makes it very clear how this concentration took place. It's not a process since yesterday, it's a process that has evolved gradually. That is why I used the expression earlier to refer to the pyramid structure. These are developments that have been prepared, planned with legislative changes, with appropriate action, which have been a very long period and have then taken place at rates. And since some of the last of these levels were taking place, obviously, away from the public's eyes because of the inaction of some independent agencies, which were obviously independent only of this authority, from the previous one, which all of these people were very close to it, which I hope I will stress enough, and if necessary, then this could be done to the end. But today, it is crucial that this information does not come on the day that these agencies have awakened under new leadership. And thank God! And I think it should be of common interest that we now take the decisions that are proposed to demand information that I am entitled to under the Slovenian Constitution, and at the same time that we do what I originally outlined as crucial; that we give a clear expression of political will, thus a clear message to the general public, as well as to all institutions and the indirect judicial branches of government, that no one can be inviolable, that there is no taboo of the subject, that all law is equal, no matter how much money there is in a bank account or on the "cage of the company". This must be a key message for this session! And only in this way can we fully realize what the Constitution imposes on us, which binds us with responsibility to all the people and at the same time prepare and ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare all those fundamentals to create conditions in this country, so that these things are extremely limited. The illusion is that it is possible to completely prevent any illegal conduct, the illusion is that it will be possible to remedy everything in return, unfortunately, because the European Union's legal order, which we have committed to and set Slovenian constitutions and excessively obsolete deadlines in many cases, as well as inadequate solutions when it comes to, let's say, some courts that are overloaded in the past. All of this proves that anything will be very difficult to fix. What is our responsibility to the public and to all of us is to do everything in our power by adopting the relevant decisions today, as well as subsequent relevant legislative changes, so that any disputed behaviour can be maximized in advance, to prevent the maximum extent possible if it happens to be detected and sanctioned. And once again, I stress that there must be no reservations in this, no matter who yours is, who is theirs, who is ours, who is whose. All must be equal before the law, and this is also, in fact, what the public in the past governments have in some ways been very much disturbed, including in the case of definitions. This inequality before marriage is something that was painful. For this reason, I would like to point out that we will never agree with the logic that was presented when one of the more famous Slovenian economists was filmed when a police vehicle took him to an official conversation when someone from a high institution said, "Yes, wait, with such famous people does not do so!" No, we are all the same before the law and if the procedure for all is the same, if no one can save his capital or his political relationship, then it is a new quality for Slovenian democracy. In this part, this action, which we have witnessed in the last period, after being removed, has been replaced by those personnel that were obviously set up politically solely for the purpose of euthanasia, but not by the functioning of independent institutions, then this is something that everyone should be justly proud of and should strive to strengthen and preserve. And that is what the conclusions we have proposed are intended for, and I hope that, as on the committee, they will be adopted without a single vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I've got a daily paper here that's supposed to be owned by a post office, or at least it's been for a while. And how is that possible, I can certainly say that this is not possible overnight, as well as wheat does not grow overnight, but it takes some time. What if we go a little bit in a row? I would start with the year 1995, when the new criminal code, which is by reducing the penalty for crimes, entered into force, especially for those, as is now now popularly referred to as the tycoon and privatisation. Interestingly, it is for these acts of privatisation and concentration of ownership that the penalties under the new criminal code have been reduced. And one of the test stones of this new penal code was certainly Elan and the forgetfulness of Judge Šubic, who forgot to write the judgment or then withdrew it into the drawer. Basically, the case is out of date, and the new penal code has made it possible. The second thing that certainly affected the fact that this tycoonisation could not happen overnight was the amendment of the Act on Offences, which took place eight years ago. That's when the economic misdemeanors, the big ones, suddenly crossed over. That is to say, the concentration of capital, when it comes to billions of dollars at the time in tolars, suddenly landed among the offenses. It's like riding a bike, and it doesn't have a bell. The ownership of large companies is something like a bicycle without a bell, riding a bike like that. I wouldn't ask if it was an accident. One more thing I would like to remind you is that the "postbox" could also receive money, redirect it, in short, carry out payment transactions or payment transactions. And for this to be possible, it was necessary to prepare the terrain, to organize the service that performed and also supervised payment traffic. You all know that we had SDK, which was a well-organised service with professional leadership, and also Mrs Romana Logar's director was very professional and was obviously too professional and the authors of everything were worried that the success story of the "mail collectors" would be possible and that is why, of course, this job was terminated quickly and totally so that SDK could no longer monitor money transactions, both at home and abroad. And that was 10 years ago! Was that a coincidence?Oh, my God! I don't think so. And then these things, which I mentioned, among other things, were the sowing or starting of these "mail collectors" and because the seed was very well sown by 2005 because it had ideal conditions for growth, of course today we are reaping these mailboxes, to which we may be surprised and who may also have owned or owned this watch that I have here before me. And since we have heard a lot today that acquisitions have only taken place in the last period, and none in 2003 and 2004, I would like to remind you of the wheat I mentioned at the outset. We usually plant wheat in the late autumn, but believe me - seed, thank you - December there is not a single grain of harvest. Neither in January nor in February nor in March nor in April nor in May. But July is already beginning, and August is all over. And, Your Honor, it's the same with the "harvesting of mailboxes". If everything happened in 2004 and 2003 - I mean, nothing happened, now and in this recent period it has. This certainly meant that the seed was extremely good, but this growth took quite some time, and now it is happening. And I'm kind of looking forward to it, given that these "postmasters" are the owners of this newspaper, they don't just let me sleep peacefully, I'm waiting for a reflection of the 571 signatories of a petition. I will, of course, support all the conclusions that have been proposed! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u69	Thank you very much. And the word is from Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I want to focus on two concrete examples myself. Two specific cases that have taken place in this mandate and do not draw, as far as I understand, any of their tails in any previous term. However, two in the sky are eerie cases in which the Government of Janez Janša allowed the sale of the majority share to the Russian company Koks and the Egyptian owner in Iskraemec. In both cases for small money, in both cases high technology and vital organisms, which have also promised penetration and high yields or profits if you want. In both cases, while promising new owners to invest heavily in further development, which has not yet been achieved, in both cases at the expense of small shareholders and in the uncertain fate of workers and other employees. How can it be that this government has decided and given a green light for the sale of important state shares in these companies, irrespective of the fact that they were successful and promising companies, despite the fact that such divestment was not in the national interest, which this authority "for form" likes to refer to, irrespective of the very low purchases and regardless of both harmful contracts, which very loosely and duly determine the obligations of the buyer to the future fate of the companies themselves and the workers employed in these companies. To make it clear what dimensions we are talking about, let me say that in 2007 there were 3,147 employees in the Slovenian steel industry and 1,700 employees in Iskraemec. How many further fates or persons are fatally connected to these or these 4,850 jobs can only be guessed with great concern. The government made it clear that the leased share of SIA was EUR 105 million paid by the Russian group Koks. On a publicly available website, Koks announced that the majority share of the SIA had bought more than EUR 300 million. So where is the difference of 200 million euros? We are convinced by the government that the obligations of the Koks Group to the Slovenian steel industry are under the contract of sale. However, the contract is of course confidential in nature because the customer, the new owner, so requires. In short, before us is one very transparent alienation of the state share - transparent of course in quotations. The sale is particularly controversial because it has also affected small shareholders organised in companies authorised. Instead of the 417 euro law, they received more than half of the stock, i.e. EUR 190. To date, the details of the valuation value of the Slovenian industrial steel have not been disclosed to the public, although it would be logical for taxpayers to be justified to know how to sell a strategically important industry in Slovenia, or whether the government already knows why this data is not disclosed. The justification for the divestment of the Slovenian steel industry was even based on the fact that it would make it easier for us to enter the Russian market or, more broadly, into the market of independent communities. And what do we hear from the most responsible people today about the companies of the Slovenian steel industry? They say our main markets are still the countries of the European Union, notably Italy, Germany and Austria. But the Russian market is very closed. The Russians themselves cover their own market and market in Ukraine. At the same time, they have high security duties on stainless steel. The European Union and Russia are still negotiating customs duties. That's how it is. The Russians will only collect net profits, and they will not contribute to the penetration into their markets. And Iskraemeco, this company was also sold at a price. For shares that were undervalued in the Iskraemec balance sheets, the Egyptians had already withdrawn almost a third of Iskraemec's purchase, the country first rejected the Slovenian investor and immediately decided to sell it to a foreign company. The number of employees has subsequently plummeted, so to speak. Today, we read in the media that the work will surely lose 250 more people in a short time, and another 250 will be informed of their fate next year. The Treaty is undoubtedly harmful because it contains only voluntary guarantees. The contract provides that the buyer must invest between zero and 30 million euros in society? What is this supposed to mean from 0 to 30 million euros? More and more indicators show that production will move to Malaysia and India, and there will be no need to move from EUR 0 to 30 million, and there will be only a few 10 jobs left in Kranj, as development activities are currently not being moved by the new owner. It's all very sad. All of this is very difficult to understand. Even such a stupid farmer won't sell chickens that carry golden eggs - or what? And who can understand this farce that you are presenting in this national assembly today with this extraordinary session? I submit that in both of these cases, it is clear that this government has made it possible to sell the majority of state shares; that this government has adopted the relevant decisions which constituted a green light for the direct execution of the divestment in both cases; that this government is the one that still warrants the divestment of both the Slovenian steel industry and Izremec. And this government is silent and silently monitoring how workers go on the road and how small shareholders, employees, once employed, retired in these two cases were guileed and disadvantaged. However, the Slovenian national interest is not a matter of losing words. Why would we allow the Slovenians to do what we can to the Russians and the Egyptians? And let's hope that someone in this process gets involved. What's supposed to happen? Money, of course. Our taxpayers' money. These are two specific cases which I say do not have tail in previous mandates, and for these two cases this government, the Government of Janez Janša, is directly responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Comrade Grimes, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I would like to point out that there is one blue booklet, which has the title of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, let me use it. Look, from the first to the last word, what Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler has just said had no "mild connection" to the concentration of capital, nor to the influence of this capital on the media and thus on the freedom of the public word. This is said to have been a pure abuse of the procedure that you should have stopped immediately at the outset or at least warned her about, and none of it has been done. It would be too much to replicate, because the hen, which the lady - the great bird, as she likes to call itself - has not borne the golden eggs, but the giant loss and would have been bankrupt if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the funds had not once entered, sorry that I would not have expressed myself wrongly, into this company and helped solve the situation. But what's so important about this story, colleagues and colleagues who like to make fun of each other so much, and that's how you hide your problems, look, it's already another process trick. The first was over-aggression, which I discovered at the outset, and now an attempt to divorce this debate by pushing it into debate as much as possible, which has nothing to do with the topic under consideration today. In this way, ladies and gentlemen of the SD, as well as the others you give them right, you are very clear about how you have a bad conscience. Bad news says bad news. I understand very well what you're trying to accomplish here, but it doesn't excuse you in any way in your conduct. Likewise, Mr President, as you are not excused in any way by the fact that you are not even warning people or directing the debate by remaining within the limits of those which are now open, which are extremely important, not only from the point of view of the rule of law, but also from the point of view of media freedom, freedom of information and the constitutional right to information. In fact, if everyone were to focus on this subject, I say none of the open problems are insurmountable. In this way, if we continue to do so, no one will be able to understand in the end what is being said today. Therefore, I ask you to remind the opposition colleagues and colleagues who use these procedural tricks and to alert the debaters in the future to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u73	If you expect me to lead the session as directed by your reference or your motion for reference, Comrade Grims, you are wrong. I personally know what this session is about, and you're not gonna get me on my left foot. According to my assessment, Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler highlighted some of the cases that took place during the current term, and I have not considered that she violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that is why I have not warned her in any way. However, it is a matter for every individual to evaluate the content it pursues in the current debate. We will continue the debate. Member Cyril Testen has the floor. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I personally note that all the governments so far - no matter what composition - have been in their programmes, and all coalitions, have withdrawn from the economy due to more efficient management. In principle, I think that this approach is correct, provided that this withdrawal process is carried out in a fair and controlled manner. Usually, however, every time the opposition makes a real withdrawal or attempt to withdraw, the opposition usually screams, whether it is a good or a bad case. So these problems exist, from words to deeds, it's hard. I would like to draw attention to two cases that have been discussed, one on the Committee on the Economy and, for example, that we have dealt with on one of the committees, otherwise it has no direct link, as Mr Grims explains, with the concentration of capital in this media sense, but I think that the cases are very interesting and I will try to present them anyway. An example, which I think is an example of very good practice, is the sale of Drugs Portorož. Dear Portorož was, in my opinion, sold optimally for the highest possible price that could have been recovered. The country in the Road Portorož has held 25% plus one share, which is positive, this is the controlling share, the taxes from the Drugs Portorož collects our country and the headquarters of the Drugs is in our country, only the owner is a foreigner. That's true, and it has to be admitted. Some may interfere exclusively with the ownership or buyer of the drug. I think that the Slovenian National Party Group would not be disturbed if, under the same conditions, the buyer was someone else or if the buyer was the company they extended. Dear Portorož, according to recent results, we have also received, seen and heard, a very good company and has achieved outstanding results in recent years. Years ago, Dear Portorož bought only old ships, 10, 15 years old, in the last years of the drug of Portorož buying, I'll say, newer ships. Just yesterday, after 22 years, she bought a new ship called Nova Gorica, and she's buying new ships, which I think is good. From this point of view, I think it's a good case. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] - General sailing, sorry - good practice. [[...]] [[...]] Another case that I wanted to mention, however, is also a coastal case, but is the sale of shares of Hotel Morje and Hotel Palace. This sale took place in 2001 when Mr Mag was responsible and Chairman of the Board of Directors. Milan Squeakle. Under his leadership, the Management Board adopted a decision that public sales should be made. Even though such a decision had been taken, Mr Squeakl did not comply with this Decision and the sale was made without a call for tender. It should be noted that there is no record of the price and how Hotel Palace and Hotels Sea were replaced or sold. It should be noted that only two and a half years after the Court of Auditors found that the Administrative Committee had signed, in my view, a forced agreement on the sale, but because the audit had been carried out, otherwise this audit could not be completed in an appropriate manner. It should also be said that the shares of the Hotel Palace have been traded at a stock exchange price, which I think is important. Well, what followed all this? All of this followed that after less than ten months Mr Swickl was withdrawn as Chairman of the Management Board or from the Management Board of the Court, which later resulted in this. I must say that it is only today that I understand that he was not appointed Director or approved as Director or President of the Court of Auditors. I think they have a president because his Members voted against it. However, they voted against it because the experience of its administration was obviously very problematic. But what disappointed me most about this whole case was the Court of Auditors' decision; on the basis of all these documents, on the basis of everything that happened, they attributed a positive opinion to this case. I can't believe it. I have read this, this case exists, and I think this is one of the very ugly cases of the previous term, and I hope that many of them are not yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u75	Thank you very much. On the basis of your debate, we have received one proposal for a procedural discussion of one proposal for a replica and a debate of the Minister. I give procedural content first. Here you go, Comrade Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I ask you, as chairman of this meeting, for four hours, in fact, this meeting is already taking place, in particular by the ruling coalition, we hear the use or abuse of certain names or surnames, either of Members or of other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I would ask that, in so far as anyone has any criminal case against these people he mentions, he should have done so by the time he found out that there was anything criminal and that the law enforcement and judicial authorities should have intervened. As far as "insinuation" is concerned and you don't know if it's true or not what you're saying, then please stop because you're insulting people, citizens and citizens of this country. I am aware that the "fosh" Olympic discipline of this government coalition is, but really please, regret, the use of the names of individual people you accuse of things that are not proven anywhere other than yours, I will say heads, so if you refer to the media, then you are so much more poor, I must tell you, then please stop using the names and surnames when you talk about the acquisitions that have taken place in the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I will not put your motion to the vote. However, I will ask all present Members and Members to examine the content just provided by my colleague Zagorac. Member Happy Friend has a replica of his colleague Testen as the only representative of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's right. I have to put a replica on this nonsense. One time it was a drug, and then the gentleman woke up, and he said, "Swimming." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u79	My friend Lucky Friend, I'm going to ask you to stay away from the word "stupid" because I don't want to answer for your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u80	See, the General Sailing has really bought two new ships - one of which has already arrived - and it has also bought two old ones, and, for God's sake, these two old ones have bought from Mr. Döhle and are much more expensive than two new ones. You can read that in the paper if you read a newspaper. Otherwise, my answer to your claims. First of all, I have a letter in my hands now from the former commander of the Genshipping Group, which is General Navigation, if you don't know, because the General Navigation does not have any ship registered in the Slovenian Register. And he asks me, therefore, that no ship is registered in the Slovenian register and that the ships are owned by the Genshiping Group, Liberia. Why no one explores in this country what this company is and what has done "good" under the terms, in the translated sense of the word, to Slovenian seafarers. As for my colleague's procedural proposal, I fully agree. I have filed a criminal complaint against the criminal association, and the court of Cyprus is also involved in helping to write such and other illegal decisions, because, of course, Mr Döhle is the legal representative of a lawyer who happens to be the husband of a woman who is the President of the Court. And that's a nice conclusion. The Magical Association is shown in this octopus and is an integral annex to the indictment. And if this Slovenian prosecutor, who has this suit deep-frozen in his drawer, is likely to be locked up three times, it will not open a trial, but it will be brought by an international court, and we will be washing dirty laundry there. Slovenia lost the only Slovenian shipowner, and this foreigner, who was privileged in the purchase process, kicked Slovenian sailors onto the road or threw them onto land, better said. We're not gonna let that happen. And you say goodbye to this thing, because you probably got something for it as a client.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your discussion. We will continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Before that, the Minister shall be involved in the debate. Minister Visjak, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will always come to the attention of the Government when there will be a deliberate spread of untruths, not to say lies, about some of the procedures taken by the Government, including by the withdrawal of the country from the economy. A typical example was the debate of Ambassador Darje Lavtizar Bebler, who was talking about illegality, even concealing some information related to the divestment of shares in the Slovenian steel industry. The divestment process was transparent, public, legal, economic and fair. On the basis of the public offer or the collection of offers, in fact, a very open transparent process has arrived in both international media and Slovenian media. The company was previously evaluated, all these documents were also available to you Members, through the relevant Commission for the supervision of public finances and here to say that anyone, whatever he was hiding simply does not hold. And we want to explain every detail to Members and Members through the supervisory institutions, and I think there is no problem here. An evaluation was carried out by this qualified and verified valuer, and a public determination procedure was carried out, which is the most appropriate bidder - and it offered the price at the upper limit of the valuation report. The Commission, which negotiated with the buyer, also pursued other objectives, not only the aim of maximising the purchase. A particularly important objective was to further develop the company and it was also agreed with the buyer that three years of company profit would invest in further development. And I am pleased that tomorrow we will open one very important acquisition for the level Metal and it is about, in short, new investments in the steel industry that are provided from the company's operations. It's not true that the Russians will collect all the profits you've called. I think it is also a bit problematic to talk about an economic society that is on the global market and thus to underestimate anyone in this appreciation assembly, it is wrong and harmful, not least for the Slovenian steel industry, for a company that operates and employs. It is irresponsible to talk about how everything is wrong there without having to come up with one concrete evidence a day. I was also at the final meeting of the Committee or of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, where the key dilemma ended around the fact that the company had another appreciation, i.e. some institution that had never been in the company at all. Thus, the appreciation made by someone on the basis of the available data and this valuation has been equally weighted, I would say, with regard to the credibility of the opposition Members, rather than the appreciation of the company carried out by the authorised institution under all the rules and methodologies. We've never even been given an insight into this alternative valuation, we don't know it. And of course, now to say that this is more credible than the other one, and therefore I think that the Commission has concluded in the end - let those institutions in the Republic of Slovenia in charge of control determine who is right and who is wrong. But to conclude and to say here that it was one eccentric injury, that everything was wrong here, that we were hiding the data here, is simply not true. Don't hold it. You mentioned Iskraemeco. Iskraemecco is a well-known and respected legal entity in the Republic of Slovenia and is at a developmental turning point. In fact, the products they have been implementing, mechanical counter products are becoming a slow history and are being moved to electronic counters, which also allow for the upgrade of a new user service. And Iskraemeco found himself here at a turning point, at a developmental turning point, when he had not yet developed these new products well enough, while having problems with the competitiveness of existing production. He needed fresh money, recapitalisation and a strategic partner. We looked for this through para-state funds, which also technically did so. I estimate that sooner or later the time will come in Iskraemec, when the production of mechanical counters will need to be replaced with the production of more modern technology-intensive products. Unfortunately, this will also bring about a restructuring of the production itself and also of the employees. No matter what ownership it was, it was some hopeless situation, and I believe that management along with the owners will find the least sensitive and painful solution for employees, and again from this case working an affair is particularly harmful for the company, more for the company than for anyone else. And please, to Slovenian companies, because these are companies that are shipping a Slovenian brand, let us allow them to develop without accompanying political intrigues.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u83	Thank you very much. And the replica of your performance is from Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u84	Yeah. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, everything I have talked about is documented and everything, all the information I have mentioned here, has been mentioned both at the meetings of the relevant committee in the National Assembly and, of course, in our media. So, your claim that what I'm saying is lies is the least that's very rude and unacceptable in fact for the National Assembly and the debate here. If you're talking about Iskraemec. You're saying that Iskraemecco was at some turning point when you can no longer produce these old, outdated counters and so on, and that now we're wondering, of course -- was this Egyptian buyer willing to give money for these counters and this production that is already completely obsolete? Probably not. I have just looked at this contract and, therefore, with all responsibility, I claim that this contract is harmful and that the following moves made by the Egyptian buyer clearly suggest that it will move production to Malaysia and India, where the labour force is cheaper and that only a few ten employees will remain here in Kranj. And look, if you're monitoring the media, then I'm sure you know they're also holding numbers about employees in Iskraemec. The figure that soon after the sale, the number of employees has been severely eliminated has, in other words, halved that 250 employees are already clear that they will lose their jobs and that another 250 are determined to decide on their fate next year is true in 2009. However, as regards the Slovenian steel industry, even Mr President of the Government here said that he did not object to Mrs Marija Zagozhen coming to the National Assembly and explaining exactly what the valuations were, under what conditions the Slovenian steel industry was sold out or this state share. Mrs Zagoznova came to the appropriate committee and said that she does not have time to waste time and money like this with Members who obviously have no other business than to ask inappropriate questions. And until today, as far as I know, Mrs Zagoznova in the National Assembly did not explain things as she should. The fact is that this contract was also brought to the National Assembly is about the purchase of the Slovenian steel industry as confidential and it was said that it was claimed by the buyer, the new owner of the Slovenian steel industry. And I ask you when you say that everything is transparent, clear and legal: Can anything be inaccessible to the members of this National Assembly when it comes to talking about tax money? That it is money from the Slovenian budget, from the money of Slovenian taxpayers. It is "eclatant", an inappropriate attitude towards Members, an underestimation of the National Assembly and an inappropriate act against the National Assembly at all. And you say here that everything was transparent, clear, legal. And why would we believe that? Because you said so, after you've told us a few times, I'm not going to tell lies, but with a little imagination. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u85	Darja Lavtišar Bebler [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u86	What kind of things did they show? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u87	The replica is three minutes long. [[...]] The debate shall be resumed by the Minister. Minister Visjak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u88	Thank you very much. See, in this mandate, quite a few transformations have been made from some non-competitive programmes to some competitive ones. Unfortunately, there is development in Europe and, of course, thank God, even in Slovenia. And some, in particular the labour-intensive segments of production, are, in the end, also needed to replace productivity increases and added value with new ones. And that is why I also support this preorientation of Iskraemec that it comes from ordinary mechanical counters, which are probably more suitable for some of the developing markets you mentioned, to difficult products that also enable sales, not only sales, but also the development of services. And these are the electronic counters. And so the defence of some, unfortunately, in Europe of non-competitive products at all costs is a practice that we have been given in the past, but this is dying on meals that have unfortunately not been proven. Therefore, believe me that the company was aware of this dilemma and that it will also make the best possible use of the space they have in Slovenia, and it is not true that this space it has covers only a few ten jobs. However, as for the statement that someone did not come, I was a witness when Mrs Baggage was in Parliament, and she explained everything you wanted to know on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. It is not simply true that Mrs Zagożen was not in Parliament, she was in Parliament. Look, this is where you said it wasn't, it was. Now, if you're not satisfied with her answer, that's your problem. And I'm sorry, it's a simple hoax, someone's been to Parliament and talked about these things, and it's right and it'll come if it's necessary because she ran the commission, and she'll come. Now, however, some circumstances or information that the buyer did not wish to disclose. The buyer has already disclosed all the important, essential elements of the sales contract, price, terms and so on. Some, however, because it is a buyer who has not actually completed his capital ties and purchases with this project, but is likely to buy somewhere else, and therefore does not disclose all the details such as guarantees, in particular insurance guarantees, this is the part that remains, its competition in the European and global market and also its potential targets that it still wants, and this is perfectly logical in the business world. So all the essential elements of the sales contract have been disclosed here, and according to my assessment and assessment, the government has done well and is probably the only sin now, because the Slovenian steel industry is doing well and because it invests a lot in development. So, again, let me tell you. In three years of sales, so the next two years, the euro will not run out of the Republic of Slovenia, but will be reinvested in production and steel industry in the Republic of Slovenia. It's the right thing to do. Second thing. The Slovenian steel industry generates profits and manipulates a certain "digit" czech that this profit belongs only to the Russian shareholder simply does not hold, because the Russian partner has only half the ownership, a quarter has the Republic of Slovenia, more than a quarter, and, of course, a whole set of other shareholders, meaning that the Republic of Slovenia also participates in this profit with a quarter. So, it's easy to say that all profits are now from only half the shareholders, profit is from everyone. And once again, this profit is reinvested. The vertical integration provided by the Russian buyer is very important for the competitiveness of this production in the future. He's a supplier of raw materials. You know that raw materials are being strongly irritated and that the competitive problem of many manufacturers in the Republic of Slovenia is that it is difficult to compete with final products since raw materials such as certain materials, energy and the like have been raised. Since the Russian buyer is integrated into the group in this case, it therefore has a competitive advantage. And look, it's true, the world's steel industry is in a conjuncture that can take a long time, but it can't. And the Slovenian state has already repaired the Slovenian steel industry, and the possibility of additional state aid for recovery is very limited. It is therefore right that the Slovenian steel industry is in a more stable system, which is also more resistant to possible fluctuations in the global market. So once again, both for the Slovenian industry and for the other, I can certainly say that one of the more successful withdrawals of the country from the economy. As far as Iskraemmec is concerned, I believe that the best is possible in these situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for explaining to us that the perspective of the Slovenian steel industry is fine. However, Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we have an extremely important debate on the concentration of capital and the resulting concentration of capital in media houses as well. The fate of every Slovenian citizen depends on whether we will be successful in the fight we urgently need to start. It depends on how, under what conditions our children will operate and live. Because in Slovenia we are faced with significantly more dangerous tycoons than Russian tycoons for Russian society. Because Slovenian transition tycoonization has support, today you see it here in an extraordinary octopus, an extraordinary dragon is this, not with ten heads, but with hundreds of heads, an extremely organized backdrop and those who are here today praising and defending these "robots", of course you belong to this. According to my information, some are also bribed to pay for it by the authorities. At the same time, we are faced with a ghastly test of the fact that in the face of such thieving privatisations, thefts, corruption, when hundreds of millions are flying, that Mr Kos is dealing with the brooms and toilet paper of a minister's wife. But he didn't say anything about these things. And you support him! Of course, you defend such conduct with all the screams. In this fight, the Slovenian government, which faces such an opponent, is extremely weak. Public support is needed. And I hope that we will convince the Slovenian public that the fate of their children depends on it. For we have, I must say, unfortunately, opponents in the media as well, because they are under the control of these moguls. And Slovenian media are dealing with the Italian media mogul, not writing or talking about the "robots" of Slovenian media moguls. I must say, I have mentioned this the last time in a speech in Pekra that this is a brutal, greedy wealth at the expense of workers and trade at the expense of farmers who do not recognise the prices that this is a theft under natural law. If you have already made such legislation in the last 12 years that under criminal law certain things are not criminalized. It's natural law, so it's a thief. And it's not just theft, it's also treason and treason of citizens. Extradition is incriminated and punishable in every country and also in Slovenia. And I hope that prosecutors and the judiciary will find a way to get where they need to go, those who are so brutally preying on and are at the expense of the workers. Because this transition octopus of ours, these tycoons of ours are capable of anything. Those who come from these Communist parties are willing to bring our workers into a feudal relationship and workers into modern slavery; they have proved so far. I am not satisfied with what our government has been able to do, because it has succumbed to the human rights tsunami race and has not replaced the people who have protected and are still protecting. However, so far we have defended Mobile, Telekom, as planned. Gantar defended the return of investments in telecommunications. Today, the State's Attorney's Office largely defends its return. In Slovenia Bristrica of 4,000 claims is not solved one! They wanted to get this return through the elections without coming back, so someone could put the whole of Telekom, the whole of Mobile and so on in their own pocket. And that's where Mr. Bembich doesn't want to hire lawyers to solve this. At the time, the minister wrote to him that he had to work, that he had systematized jobs. No! No! This is all within the framework of this transition octopus, which protects and does everything in order to put all of this in exactly defined pockets, in precisely defined ownership. And just as I fought against wild privatisation and lost my job and stopped it twice then no more, please don't let me tell you that I'm at least monitoring. I say this out loud and I will speak and in all forums I am fighting this, and if any of you come to the side of justice, then we will be successful as long as you support all of this and you are somehow guilty with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u92	Thank you. Yes, I do. And, of course, the first comment on just being made. Rather, it is as if for some time you stopped or as if you had returned to the past, that is, when you were on your way and in your promises to act differently. But it can be that I am risking my short performance, as far as I am allowed to speak in this dramaticly clear time as opposition MPs, to offend the Minister of Transport and Communications and the rest of the flow of information, is Mr Grims, because I am going to question the other director, not today's performance. My questions go to the virtual amateur director of today's literally puppet, puppet performances by Mr Janez Janša, the Prime Minister of the Government, who I think is responsible, should be here, and since he is not, I will virtually put a name in the air, we have a third programme, we can turn him on to answer the following questions. At a time when I return to the past, when Mr Janez Janša "screamed" with a hard metal softener, WD-40, you promised not to influence the composition of the supervisory councils by taking over power. Today, in 2008, does it seem that you personally influenced the selection of members of the supervisory boards of some newspapers, Del and Evenings? But it is not only a matter of verifying the appointment of people to the world, it is even more important, Sir Janez Janša. It is also another "fragmentation" by the media, which absolutely marks your mandate. From the threat that the government is not worth having a war that we remember, it is true that things go quickly into oblivion, until the printing of "frozen" files to foreign journalists in front of hotel rooms to make the image of Slovenia different from in reality. Even caricatures, if I attach myself to the very underlashed newspaper of the Primorska novice, even cartoons are forbidden if they are not drawn by the right hand, even if they are offered free of charge. Frank Yuri's not the right hand. Not to mention the impact on advertising by the Government of nearby societies, and not to mention the impact of advertising by those companies that have access in appropriate newspapers and that are inappropriate. Remember the cuts that were here for the daily newspaper, remember what it was like with the Youth, and remember what it was like today. Let's see new newspapers that advertise - reliable everywhere in the Post Office of Slovenia, mail is the best mailbox for "real" newspapers. The Slovenian weekly is also a "real" newspaper with a targeted and targeted population. I don't even talk about others because I don't have enough time. And, of course, I ask Mr Janez Janša: "Why did he impose, if ASK says so, Lady of Heart, Andrijana Starina Kosem, why did he order that after Pivovarna Laško has acquired an important capital share in the newspaper house, the arrangements so that we will have a long-term impact on the appointment of the Labour Supervisory Board and thus on editorial policy. Today, something else has probably happened during the day, since the role of the ladies of the heart is also changing. Mr. Janez Janša, because you are 9. 11. 2004 at an extraordinary meeting, at the first extraordinary meeting of the new government or assembly of parliament, they defended their programme entitled "There are opportunities before us that we have never had before." Such an opportunity is also that it is necessary to act and to direct other authorities in such a way as to make less dependent and more use of authority and to enforce laws more uncompromisingly. Why the central institutions, which were put under attack here four years ago, why did you leave their flabbyness to this day? Is that what the advisors ordered for your election campaign? And why, after all - another question for Minister Simoniti - if everything is as wrong as it is, and if the laws are as right as Minister Vizjak said today, if so, then you have a 16th article of the Media Act, Mr Minister and your adjutant at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Igor Prodnik, a multiple official, why don't you just stop and forbid the release of the media because this law sets you? If they don't work in accordance with the law, you can stop them, you can denounce them. Two years ago, it is said, March 2006, it was clear that your eyes, Mr Janša, are this. In 2006, under your eyes, the title "The Conquerion of the Media has cost us 11 billion SIT". That was two years ago, with clear calculations of what's inside 11 billion tolars. Not only RTV Slovenia, the amount includes the costs of carrying out the various machineries of the Courts, the cheap withdrawal from Mercator, the share also contributed by the State Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, which has overpaid the share at the Termoelectrica Brestanica. And so on. In the business with which the Government conquered the work, almost 30 billion tolars turned and we are still at this bag, still when Mercator's bag opens, still falling out of work. And it falls out of the secret company of JBŠG plus ASK. A secret society that met on 12 August 2005 and we are still touching it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Once again, we have a procedural proposal. Comrade Bostian Zagorac is your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u94	Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't know how many of you really listen to the session or the individual speeches of Members and Members. But my distinguished fellow Member, Joseph Jerovšek, said in his speech: "Those who defend the tycoons in this house, in this country, and for some I know that you are being bribed." It's a serious accusation from his mouth. So I work in the same house with some people that he knows are being bribed. Such a statement seems totally unacceptable to me. I would ask the President-in-Office to suspend this meeting of the National Assembly immediately, to convene a college, and if Mr Jerovšek does not trust the names and surnames of the bribed Members in this House to speak out, he will close himself to the public so that he can tell who they are. These are serious accusations and I would really like to ask that we work in accordance with the legislation and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, if such accusations were premeditated, I would ask Mr Jerovšek to make a public apology to this entire respected assembly because he did not define the people he accused of being bribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much. As President, I accept your procedural proposal. If my colleague Jerovšek claims that members of the National Assembly are being bribed, of course I ask him to declare it. Finally, this is also his duty - not as a member of the National Assembly, but as a citizen. I believe that there is no colleague Jerovšek on the scene, currently listening through the speakers of the National Assembly. That is why I urge him once again to apologize to the National Assembly as an institution, to the extent that he insists on his claims to do so again. And we continue on the basis of the list of applicants. To the debate [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Well, or as my colleague Bajc said, if it's embarrassing to tell him, let's at least give him a list to keep us informed. [[...]] However, Minister Simoniti is involved in the debate, and it is your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, the distinguished viewers accompanying this transfer. I would like to refer to Mrs Shirca. However, I think the whole issue I am going to talk about has been repeatedly raised in the sense that it is an ethical issue and the credibility that is being discussed. This was said by Mr Horvath, I think that Mr Kumer, who said that the SDS Members had told themselves about themselves and the Member of Parliament, who was talking about the composition of the supervisory councils that had been replaced. This is, of course, the credibility of the people involved in this debate, and the question is, what exactly is the credibility of the people who, say, three times, replace the party that was, say, the president of a party that was the president of the Liberal Party, who would replace the party and become an ideal and ideological member of the other party. In fact, this is extremely interesting or even perversion, if they are not stopped in time to culminate in an attack on children or even on murders, this has been demonstrated by psychological books. This is extremely interesting, what is now a matter of credibility. What, for example, is credible if someone is removed from the supervisory board who provides his partner with fat profits? Is he a credible person if he is then removed from such a supervisory council? And it is known that this happened in Kinotheka, the President of the Supervisory Council was Mrs Shirca, who received fat resources, multimillion dollars, in the family salaries of people with modest incomes, she assured herself and her environment. If that were to happen to the minister or to any of the officials of the ruling coalition, they would demand a resignation. And I am surprised that I read here that the amendment of the association that Mrs Širca belongs to, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia finds that the elections won in democracy in no majority, no government gives the right to usurpation of power, tax money. I hope that you will exclude your Member from political life and from this Group of Members who have done exactly what they are asking of the Government here. So, that's essentially terrible, and listeners please, citizens who watch it to remember it. This is where the evidence of changes in the supervisory councils is drawn when they themselves did what they did to strengthen their own 'budgets'. And this is a lot of goodies, I don't know what kind of small town caprice, which is some "left-handedness," but it's basically a very clear and sophisticated finger-to-eat to cover how they provided themselves with huge funds. This is left-wing, which is a small town caprice, which is 70 years ago, 80 years ago are in fact in this way and then by "difamation" of people systematically in the media, where people with primary schools judge about all, and were the tools of some policy in the back and were "difamated" while at the same time filling their pockets. And the same has actually happened at the concentration of the media. In 2003, agreement was given that more than 20% of the share could be obtained over the work, that is, up to 100%, and that was the person who today called on himself for a mandate, was the president of the SD Party or the United List, the member who received this right, was a member of the SD and the one who issued it was a member of the SD, if that was not fair enough and clearly where it belongs and how it was done for people to think. And to the Members who are talking about the supervision of the saints, let them think about their own work, and I hope that they will give at least some scholarships from that money to the people who need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. But I'm giving the replica to the ladies of the House, as you've called it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u98	We repeat only the question addressed to Mr. Janez Janša: Is it true that you personally influenced the selection of members in the supervisory councils of some newspapers in Del and Vecer, and everything else proposed here is covered by a unequivocal decision that the Minister himself saw and issued that there were no violations in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The debate shall be resumed by the Minister. Minister Simoniti, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u100	So, now, if a question has been addressed to Mr President of the Government, you have also addressed a certain question to me if anyone has been replaced. Of course, you specifically asked to avoid the general, but the essence is the control council as such. Finally, this government has ensured that it has always been a member of the opposition in the supervisory councils, we do not know whether it has been accepted or not, but certainly wanted to work transparently. Of course, the answer is not that you specifically ask that classically, as I said before, cover up your own actions, it is the supervisory councils at all, and you have been justly replaced.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Again, we have the Minister of Economy in the debate. Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u103	Minister Vizjak, I apologize, my mistake, the preference is given to colleague Pečanov in the form of a procedural debate or proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only point out that the abuse of assigning discussions to ministers is by no means in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, Visjak and now Mr. Simoniti have replicated on the replica [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We can't call it a debate because they were classic replicas. Therefore, at least be so educated Minister Vizjak, and you too, Mr Simoniti, are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, there are no replicas on the procedural proposal, and I therefore ask the Vice-President to comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u105	Mrs Pečanova, if anyone is acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is me. And Mr Vizjak and Minister Simoniti have so far applied in the form of a debate in each debate. As a debater or as a member of the Government, they shall have the right to debate even when they are not proposing the substance itself of the draft law or of the meeting of the National Assembly. I have been particularly careful that, until now, in the debate, since the 15th hour, since I have been sitting, none of them have spoken in the form of a replica. Comrade Pecanov, allow me to lead the session. Minister Vizjak and Minister Simoniti have the right to debate whenever you wish. This is what our blue book, which some call the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, speaks of. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. However, the Minister of Economy applied prematurely. Minister of Economy Mr. Vizjak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much. This government has introduced a standard that I hope will in fact become a constant, not just the standard of this government. This is, of course, to enable the opposition to participate in the supervisory councils. Supervisory boards of both companies, as well as institutions or supervisory bodies of institutions. A typical example, which is good practice, is the holding of the Slovenian power plant. Dr. France Križanič, who was proposed by the President of the Social Democrats, sits in the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, this is Mr Borut Pahor. I have spoken to him personally at the beginning of this mandate, and I believe that he is doing his work properly and in the interests of society and, of course, within the framework of the legislation. I wish there were more cases like this. In fact, we offered it to the opposition, and in some cases the opposition has accepted it, but in some cases it has rejected it. Even so, because of the observations I received, which will be discussed in connection with the sale of the Nitrogen Plant Ruše, this has also been confirmed by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plant. Respected Širca, it is very important that the Government, where through supervisors it also exercises its own role and responsibility in economic societies, has the opportunity to appoint responsible, professional people who are subject primarily to the interests and missions imposed by law and principles on supervisors. That is why, in many cases, we have also done so, mainly when the mandates have expired, and this is our responsibility, not only as you want to report, I don't know, abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Before that, I saw a raised hand by a colleague of Blacks. A friend of Blacky's? You're giving up. Thank you very much. So, can we continue on the basis of the list of previously declared Members and Members? Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I myself support the reference to this extraordinary meeting on this subject, so that this matter is better clarified in public, which is now so current in Slovenian media in recent months. After all, when I listen to the debate, "we're you," I know there won't be any special "pleasant" out of it. However, I estimate that this extraordinary meeting is far too late, perhaps two or five years would be more appropriate, after that famous meeting, and perhaps we could do more by that time. Today, however, we criticize those law enforcement authorities who have not done their mission in the way the Government, the National Assembly and, above all, our citizens expect them to do. Clearly, we are not yet quite the right state of law, and apparently it is still crumbling in certain matters. And obviously we also have legislation that has holes that good experts obviously know how to abuse. And even in these cases, it is similar that some have obviously taken advantage of this opportunity and have come to such a imaginative wealth, which is morally and ethically condemned by every normal politician and myself. We have a situation as we have it, and believe me, citizens are bitter, citizens are disappointed both with the government, the National Assembly, the current policy of how something like this could have happened and why we did not react in time and prevent it. No, we didn't, anyway. Of course there's more to the cause. It's not just one fault, it's a collective responsibility, one way or another. Last but not least, as the Slovenian People's Party, we fought in the past to investigate the so-called sale of the property of the Triglav Insurance Company, if you remember, and Telekom, not to mention the construction of lower-Savish power plants, which was reportedly already agreed to be built by the Austrians. Thank God we stopped it then, today it is built by Slovenians, Slovenian knowledge, Slovenian construction, and more than successfully. Everyone in this society should do their job, just like on a Slovenian farm - it is known exactly who has a job, what a man does, what a woman does, what is common. And it's running. This is not yet the case in this country and some functions are not carried out in accordance with expectations. Unfortunately, that's the way it is with us. Of course, we are all equal before the law, absolutely, all of us should be equal before the law. And I hope that it will also be shown here that everyone before Slovenian legislation and European legislation is the same, and that, finally, some will face facts if they have violated legislation, if they have illegally acquired certain assets, they must answer, everyone must answer. Well, I hope there's no one to defend it. It is true, however, that in Slovenia we know at least 100 rich Slovenians that we have on the list are published each year in certain magazines and these Slovenians, most of them are likely to go through this path transparently, I believe, but probably not all. And all of these, maybe the train's already been delayed or not. And maybe if we were talking about that commission, the 83rd companies, maybe we're talking about hundreds of companies that have come up with such or other assets through this tradition after the year 90 to this day. I think that this is a public duty, and that we owe it to the politicians to allow this to be checked, examined, assessed, and assessed, to see what else we can do at this stage in which we are today. Even though we're obviously Slovenians, and some of us are connected, I don't know, to the Beerhouse Laško. I'm mainly connected to the Laško Brewery when I'm drinking some good cold beer in the summer. That's all, that's all. Everything else is that political stuffing thing and how. All I want is for everyone, from Pivovarna Laško to all these famous names, which some of you mention, which we also see here in the Slovenian week in Formum 21, but not all of them here, we still have quite a few such and different ones, which have also been well strengthened in this government, over and over. Let's be honest and honest. And it has to be persecuted, told things about what happened and what didn't happen. And I hope that these bodies, which have now received new leadership, such and different agencies, institutions, etc., and that they will still do their work as they should. I hope they do, maybe it's not too late. But it's true that this place isn't the prosecution, it's not the court, it's not the police. Some regret this, both government and parliamentary food, taking on these functions of responsibility a little bit. I'm sorry, if it's a legal state, then we can't judge here or anyone already exists, colleagues and colleagues. It's been heard many times between the lines just to judge someone. Let us be so European and so legal that we leave this to others. But it is true that we can accept our criticism, our mistakes that have occurred, and we must condemn you in one way or another. We know that the history of sales of state property from BTC, Lek, Autocommerce to today is a long way to go. And all this time, he's got some good, bad things. Some regret the sale of Lek to the sale of Krka, which did not happen, thank God, etc. But that's a story for someone else. [[...]] I think that the Slovenian public and citizens now look at us about this way: They are all the same, they used to be, you are now, more or less concerned about yourself, when the time of the elections comes, but remember the little man again. It's kind of like that. And let's leave so much to it that we're all a little bit too. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] And last but not least, today's extraordinary session is a little bit focused on that. [[...]] Why didn't it happen in 2005, 2006. The coincidence wanted to happen at this time when we wanted one way or another, cheap or not cheap to pick some political points. Who wins this story, I don't know. I don't know the result, and it doesn't bother me that much. But it is true that this may not be the most hygienic, but I support this session to say, pour pure wine at least in this house and maybe wake up these law enforcement authorities, such as themselves and others, to finally begin their mission, what they are paid for and set up. I think this would be one message from this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, including the conclusions proposed. I'll support them, I don't have a problem with that, even though I'm talking about whether the government can do all this, they're the powers of the government or they're the powers of someone else to conclude. This is just an assessment of such, and, of course, the committee's meeting has been and I think that it has also adopted its conclusions there, and I think there is no reason that I, as a Member, do not support them, in the belief that the hope of the latter is dying, however, that there will be someone who is going to happen some kind of thing that is now possible in the last 15 years something has not happened quite enough that someone in this country would be responsible for their actions that were illegal, untransparent and otherwise. Perhaps this will happen in this future time, although I will of course say that the time is still, even though perhaps many of these ladies and gentlemen who have somehow come to this enormous property have probably already taken the train for them. We're a little 'jamra' here, we're criticising, I'm going to say, but the thing has already gone its way and there will be some great hunters in this policy and these services will probably be gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I'm truly sorry. Come in. Which client are you in? Member Eva Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Is Mr. Procedural? We are now used to many procedural proposals. I will be brief, but I would like to draw mainly on the part that talks about the issue of concentration of media ownership in connection with the constitutional right to information. In the opening presentation of the Slovenian Democratic Party's position, Mr Grims already presented the principles. Today, in Slovenia, the situation is such that the concentration of private capital limits media freedom and also directs some media control. And this seems to me to be a key issue at the moment when we are talking about various matters within this National Assembly. If we look at it, even in view of the discussions that have been made so far in this National Assembly, capital is mostly linked to the left in this room. And this same capital is the one who wants to concentrate the media and with them also influence the elections that are ahead of us. It was this problem that proved well at the 2004 elections, when the media silence was more than obvious when John Janš was defeated. In any normal country, at least I don't know her, it couldn't have happened that after years of continuity, some one and the same authority, after a new party comes into power, some new authority, nothing has been written about it, nothing has been said about it, a statement of journalists is briefly made. Nobody said anything about that at the time. True, it has been said that this sentence is because journalists are simply regulating their position. And I don't mind the press regulating their position if they have to. There's nothing wrong with that. However, when journalists regulate their situation on a specific day, the problem is extremely interesting and they do not have certain problems, nor do they. From all of this, it is obvious that the current event in Del is also happening. It is quite amazing that a man who has apparently acquired capital in a controversial way, because he also controls the largest media house in the country, declares that his newspapers must lead such a policy that will work for Borut Pahor and SD and at the same time destroy Janez Janša. This is happening in 2008 and this is clearly a reality in the media. But this role, to discredit this government and its president, is assigned by certain people, apparently also to some parties within this National Assembly. Hence, it is necessary to attack this government, especially Janez Janša. I do not mind if the opposition parties are constructive if they speak or point to the opposition's mistakes. It bothers me, however, that these parties generally attack those issues which speak of the fact that this Government does not do enough for the social state, although I think it does not. At the same time, it is this party that supports a man who in a controversial way has acquired mega-Romanian sums of money and we do not even know how or how. But what still seems important and crucial to me in all this is the question why such exceptional support for Social Democrats by the media and Mr Borut Pahor. In my opinion, this answer is, in fact, extremely simple. In particular, because all those who have acquired such wealth in a disputed manner all the time, but in Borut Pahor and in the Social Democrats, they see a guarantee of non-action in particular. Which means that if Mr Borut Pahor comes to power, nothing will be done in this area. And that's what the problem is, and it's a worrisome concern, and that's some of the fear, because obviously this government is doing what it's doing in the coalition contract. And it's about time these things were settled. But so that no one will say that I am speaking in my mind, Borut Pahor is carefully moving away from all the questions we are talking about today in his statements. And given his already proverbial, I will say, indecisiveness, I hope to say that in this area, even if he comes into power, he will do nothing but assist with silence all those here today who mediaically support him. And that's a big problem. I will support all the conclusions that we have proposed, because I think it is high time that these things are settled in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u111	Before I give you a procedural proposal, colleague Kristian Janc, I apologized to you earlier before my observation, which was not in place, but of course you have three minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Sašo Peče, your statements from this city are not correct to me as a Member of the National Assembly and to you who are leading this meeting, and this is even less not according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's the other way around. After three and a half years in this House, we could know which party I come from, and this is the Slovenian People's Party. And I'm one of those people who doesn't change customers for good and bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u113	Thank you very much. My previous apology still stands. The fact is, my observation has exceeded the rules of the game that apply in this National Assembly. However, Member Anton Rop has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to say something on my own on this subject, and I have been mentioned many times today, and it is therefore right to say something about what has been said and related to me and in previous governments and about what is being discussed today or is intended to be discussed. This meeting looks like a wrong world, if we listen to what the government and coalition representatives say, then we see that everything is okay, that the Government has done everything it needs, that all the system measures have been prepared, carried out, that there was an extraordinary willingness of the government to take steps in this area in view of previous governments and that there should be no irregularities at all. Clearly, however, something has broken down in the system and all previous governments have conspired against this government and against this country. Of course, this is very difficult to hold, and it doesn't make any sense at all. I must therefore say that I do not fully understand why there is no SDS President and Prime Minister at this meeting today. And there are many reasons why I would expect the Prime Minister of the government and SDS to be here today. Finally, the SDS is the one who proposed this extraordinary meeting. If I understand at least about how this works, perhaps in the SDS otherwise, but would say otherwise, then in fact the President of the Government has given the initiative and has set up this extraordinary session, or he has certainly given his consent to the request for an extraordinary meeting because he has assessed that this is so important for the country or for the elections, that is, of course, another question. But it would be good to hear why he feels that this special session is necessary today. In view of the conclusions proposed, this meeting is also particularly unusual. In a way, SDS President Janez Janša, through couriers, orders Janez Janša to do what he should do. And mostly 90% suggest that he prepare the reports and study some things. If I were serious about this extraordinary session, then I would expect to meet first in a party, wherever it is at any location, to agree on these conclusions and studies, and then to come to the National Assembly, once we've studied something, and we'd find out something, and we'd have some information. So today, three months before the elections, someone comes here and asks himself to study something and, of course, make a fool out of us Members and I think from citizens and citizens. Second, Janez Janša has been and has been president of the government of this country for four years. For four years he has also served as chairman of the Soda Assembly. Finally, he was the person who, however, held that meeting in August 2005 in his office. And if we are to believe all the actors in this session, all those who were present, then it was to negotiate the takeover of Mercator and Del, no matter what they officially wrote in that record. All the other actors speak differently from the record we read here. And if half of that is true of what all the others who were present at this meeting say, then it is certain that at this meeting there was a violation of the takeover law, that the President of the Government violated the law, his powers and that, in fact, he set an example for the other players in this society and in the economy at that meeting. Last but not least, which is also very important, Mr Janez Janša is leading the government and coalition, which, by its decision on accelerated privatisation, has significantly accelerated the privatisation process on the one hand, but if there are privatisation processes, there are also concentration processes. And this was not triggered by the previous government, nor by the previous government, nor by the government of Demos, then at the beginning of the 1990s, and it would be difficult to prescribe to anyone else that he decided to privatise Slovenian companies in an accelerated manner. This is, of course, a minimum of what the President of the Government might have to explain to us, especially to Slovenian citizens and citizens who are meeting this and this farce. Instead, we are now witnessing the washing of dirty laundry and the laying and populism charges. And apparently he left the dirty work to others. I can only see one goal, I cannot see another; it is that I would wash myself to wash the SDS and coalition's responsibilities for four-year untransparent, harmful and clientistic management of the state's property. This meeting, the discussions and accusations so far clearly show that the current government is unable to take on exactly any responsibility for its actions. We haven't heard any self-criticism today, everything's great, everything's fine, but we have a super government, of course, we have a lot of problems. Even if he is not capable of any self-criticism in all other areas, all he can do today, and this has been demonstrated by this government and also by those coalition Members, it is a charge and a transfer of responsibility to the previous governments. What matters most is that the data show that it is itself directly involved in the irregularity of the concentration of capital in Slovenia and, consequently, also acts that are illegal and also corrupt. Therefore, such a meeting is not possible and we cannot achieve anything and nothing in the fight against corruption and customerism. At this meeting it is only and only a cheap populist gathering of political points. If we really wanted to do something in this area, we would have had such a meeting a long time ago, then we would have had such a meeting organized differently, and then such a meeting would have been much more prepared. In fact, it is already seen, we have seen it in 2004 and also another election back, from the same actors and in the same way and with similar instigations. However, this time there is an important difference. If this could have been successful or very successful in 1996 and if this could have been done very successfully in 2004, then I am sure that you will not succeed in 2008. And that is because you yourself have made it very clear in your actions that in the fight against corruption you have done nothing but previously, you have caused and allowed for so many irregularities in the concentration of capital and unethicalism that were really little in Slovenia before. I'm not saying that they didn't happen, of course they did, but this concentration of these events has never been present. That's why you've called an extraordinary meeting, so you're trying to assume responsibility. And if nothing else, and I'm afraid that you'll eventually succeed, it's that you'll show all the politics as corrupt and as false. Nevertheless, allow me to give some examples to support all of what I have been talking about, of course, at the general level. Of course Mercator first. Mercator needs to be re-emphasized because this case speaks for itself and talks about how torn-up your arguments are. Look, Mercator happened on the basis of an agreement, as the actors say. And the supervisory institutions to which you claim to have done too little could in this case do nothing; the actors agreed, the para-state funds went into action and sold what they sold. Above all, legislation cannot, of course, do anything in this area if it is violated by the President of the Government himself, then of course there is nothing to be done. And if you sold Mercator to take over the work, as all actors say, and they always confirm it, then it's a double violation of the takeover law. And please, you say that the previous government is guilty of irregularities, or of previous governments. So it's our fault that the Prime Minister did it. But maybe we're guilty because we didn't want to sell Mercator because we didn't want to let the manager's ransom happen in the Mercator case. We didn't do it, we didn't want it because we knew we could only do it in an untransparent way. That's why Mercator remained unsold, and this is our fault, which we can admit here today. We heard about the sale of S.J. today. This is a very concrete decision of the Government and here supervisory institutions have nothing and legislation. It is simply a decision that has resulted in some economic facts that are bad. These, however, have practically paid back within one and a half years from the purchase or contribution of the one who bought the company. And SJ sold itself just when the price of steel started to rise tremendously. Iskraemeco was also sold on the basis of the government's decision. In the case of Paloma, we have a similar case. Today, workers of Paloma are calling on the government to do something because they are trying to sell Paloma intransparency, even though they have been promised to cooperate. The Ruše Nitrogen Factory is also not something that is a mirage and the former governments, supervisory institutions and, of course, have caused legislation. Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško are two cases, but perhaps the supervisory institutions could have done more. But Istrabenz and Lashko Brewery were taken over by those who were at that meeting and who first made the first transaction. And this first transaction was, of course, a Mercator. Not to mention the pediatric clinic and 20 other acquisitions that happened. These acquisitions have not been disclosed now, these acquisitions have now taken place because this government has led such a policy to happen. And that's why concentration took place, not because the previous government didn't want to do concentration or because some individuals were appointed to some supervisory institutions. These were very specific decisions as well as your wish, which is very clear, and that is that you wanted to abolish the entire mandate of the anti-corruption commission. And in all these cases, in the sky of drunken irregularities and corruption, you hope to say that in the last term everything was fine, that there was no irregularity at all, that you did everything great. That really doesn't make any sense. And to claim in these cases that the former governments are guilty is really bizarre and can only afford someone who knows things or who consciously does it because he thinks he can mislead someone. Of course, mistakes have also been made in previous mandates and, of course, I admit it here, there is no problem. Of course they were and therefore we took political responsibility. And I think that Slovenian citizens and citizens were justly dissatisfied with certain things. But it's as bad as it's ever been! If I tell you about one specific irregularity. For example, in the case of the Laško Brewery and the purchase of the Brewery Union. It was an irregularity. But in this case, there was a collection of offers. And the overseers were required to collect bids and follow the Takeover Act. And then some of you told us that we were connected to another provider. This week's director Končnik is in spite of the ban, which is what you said today, sold the Pivovarno Union and thereby violated the takeover law. And we immediately suspended him and also demanded that proceedings be initiated against him. We asked you in 2005 to do this in the Mercator case. Worse case. 200 million euros in damages, non-transparent sales, obviously because the President of the Government was involved in this transaction, you did not suspend any. You didn't pull any off. Both Director Soda and Kad stayed there. And they're both mistakes and, of course, I admit them. I would like to say, of course, that I am myself, but I have been very much following similar cases in Europe and other countries, but something like this is not known to me. Corruption has led to the collapse of governments in virtually all European countries, particularly in transition countries, as this has been relatively large everywhere. But that the coalition and the government, when they reigned for four years and were involved in dozens of irregularities and suspicious things and very specific wrong decisions and privatisation affairs, would then convene an extraordinary meeting and blame the opposition for their own fiasco, what I did not hear or see. This can only happen with us, and I think it's extremely distasteful and perverted, and I don't think Machiavelli would remember that either. But I'm sure you can't blame the electorate and the electorate forever, and for four years you've been doing it, "painting" the same way, so for all your mistakes, you blame someone else for all your mistakes, you never blame anyone else for anything, it's always others as if others made a decision for you. And finally, let me read a statement by the President of the Government while he was still in opposition, and I'm already on the board, and I'm going to do it again so that all the viewers and viewers can hear it. In 2004, the president, the current Prime Minister of the Government and then the leader of the opposition, said, but why such a state that people do not respect laws? [[...]] Because they see that this is not done at the top, because they see that those who do not respect the rules of the game are profiting because they are breaking at the top. Those entrepreneurs who see that more is achieved through corruption will soon intervene, because otherwise they do not survive, but it comes from the top and not then accuse the crowds who follow the example of the summit. I agree with that statement, hold on, hold on then, but hold on now. And now he's holding it even more. And let me finish this in the end. The irregularity and concentration of capital occurred and occurred in all transition countries, there is no doubt about it. The concentration is also a result of a different system in which we entered. It's on its own. It may also be due to a lack of legislation, as you have said today, but of course it is also due to violations of legislation and ineffective control institutions and law enforcement authorities. The role of the state and the government is to do everything to ensure that there is no violation of legislation and of unfair concentrations and corruption. And I am convinced that all the governments so far, that all the governments of Demos' government are ahead, and the three Drnovsks, and one of my own, and the current governments of Janez Janša in this area have done very little and all governments deserve criticism in this context. However, I think it is a great regret that the current government does not see it. If he doesn't see it, he really can't do anything good, and he can't fix anything good. What is also an additional problem if the government is further involved in these irregularities and is generating irregular concentrations and corruption itself, then of course there is no possibility of any success. And I'm afraid that's the possibility of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u115	Thank you very much. On the basis of your debate, I see two requests for procedural proposals and a ministerial debate. Before that, allow the first one to have a procedural proposal from Comrade Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u116	This is not a procedural proposal, Mr President. I report as a motion for a word and have the advantage of the Rules of Procedure in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u117	Of course you do. But you have to understand me that if you raise your hand, don't say anything, I can't know whose name you have. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u119	My friend Grimes, like me, I can't understand what it means to raise your hand, and they can't understand professional associates. Please, if you turn off that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u120	Mr Vice President, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u121	to turn off your time [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u122	Because time is limited. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u123	That's why I'm asking you to turn it off. Thank you so much for understanding. But now you can talk, but that's what automaticism is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u124	Look, when Mr Rop came to the board meeting yesterday, he actually said the same debate there, as he did here today. He spoke about responsibility and, of course, he did not hear Saturday's presentation by the applicants, in which we made very clear what I said this morning. That for every decision that has been made on our part, we take full responsibility for each vote and are prepared to defend ourselves in front of the public, in front of the institutions, in front of anyone. With all the responsibility. Of course, we cannot be held accountable for decisions made by others and the consequences of which are objectively or subjectively, as I will explain, have fallen within our mandate. Yesterday, I didn't particularly respond to your words because I understood that you had been at the expense of taxpayers in Russia for several days, you played tennis, you didn't attend this Saturday session, and you didn't know that. But you're here today. You had a chance to hear that today. That's what they say. It's just a simple hoax. For these words were spoken into a microphone and more than plainly. Now, let's do it in a row. You said that our goal was and that you assumed that he'd be lucky to show all the politics the same way that I would quote you exactly. On the contrary, Mr. Rop. If we listened to the introductory address, we would see that the whole purpose of this talk was to show by examples of concrete actions and concrete decisions that all policies are not the same and that there are large and obvious differences in actions, not in words. Words are the wrong treasure in Slovenia. But in action, during the current coalition. Among the former, whose government you led yourself. And also when we compare this back, because it's the same political parties, the political predecessors, this difference is so much more obvious. In 1994, at the beginning of the year, we were, because some of you were involved in this, with some dirty political game put forth by the opposition. Our party's president, Janez Janša, was dismissed from the post of Defence Minister, and later it was found that he was innocent. Not objectively. You very much like to speak objectively. But what happened then? Let's go in line, like I said today. Just a few months later, about eight months later, a new criminal code has already been adopted, which has reduced significantly, drastically reduced the crimes of economic crime, corruption. Long live corruption, that was probably your password back then. You already knew why. You have also reduced the limitation periods which were in proportion to the penalties provided for. In this mandate, we have proposed a new criminal law, perhaps even somewhat naive, because we wanted to satisfy what you all said was needed as widely as possible. By the way, nobody said that when you voted after we removed that penal code from the government. We tried to coordinate the penal code. Too long. That's why it's only been adopted now. But you did everything in your power not to accept this penal code. Why? Because it exacerbates the crimes of economic crime and corruption, because it introduces new acts of corruption, which under the current criminal code were neither criminal nor criminal, and because it significantly prolongs the obsolete hands and thus extends the length of justice, which I am sure is in the public interest, particularly in view of the things we are facing today. Unfortunately, the old code still applies because the new code will only apply after a certain period of time from 1 November. But we did everything we could to change that. And this difference, you have reduced the penalties for economic crime, reduced the penalties for corrupt acts, because they are in proportion to outdated deadlines, and you have reduced these limitation periods, and we have corrected and adapted them to European standards. This difference fundamentally separates us from you. Another such difference is when it comes to supervisory councils of undertakings where the state or public capital also has a share. You have never and never responded to the calls of the opposition at that time, and you obviously have not thought of that at all to invite opposition representatives to the supervisory councils as well. This government and this coalition have offered you this. You took advantage of something, something you didn't, if you didn't, it's your decision. But you had this opportunity that we never had. And that is a significant difference in actions since the last period, even from when you were personally the Prime Minister of the Government. And the third major difference I presented in the introduction is the issue of concentration of media influence. I showed two, I can show them again, the decisions - the first one in 2003 and it allowed an increase in the share of one owner, specifically the Pivovarna Laška, in the newspaper house Delo. It was issued by the SD Minister, Mr Rop, who now belongs to you, to the then Director or Chief of Administration, who was also a member of the SD and his successor, as I have read your President's statements on this, who was particularly happy and proud. Now he must be a little sorry for the words he said, but all the stories took place under these conditions. And on the other hand, I also read our government's 2008 decision, when a similar matter prepared by the Ministry of Culture was smoothly removed in the supervisory process and because the explanation contained a fact that you should be concerned about if you really took part in a general, public interest. In view of the scope of the printed media issued by this house, never and never should anyone issue a decision allowing only one owner to increase its share to more than 20%. That, Mr Rob, is the difference between words and actions. Such words as you use can really only be used in Slovenia. When it comes to your people, when you, at the very end of your term at the end of our protests, appointed as the head of the supervisory institutes obviously politically motivated people, that they did something from these institutions that did not work in practice to euthanize them, we protested, and you overheared it. We have warned that it is not appropriate to appoint people to these places with a five-year term if we know that they have been politically active. We know that Mr. Neven Borak was, for example, Veno Carbone, who once wrote comments at the time of Slovenian independence, not in support of Slovenian independence, in the former newspaper Dnevnik, and therefore is a very clear orientation. And you called these people after all. And only after their term of office could they be replaced. And if we just said that it's wrong to want to replace these people, if we just hinted at something in this direction, it's also out of your mouth and out of the hands of your client colleague, and out of the mouth of his colleague Shirtz, he's cleared the plasma of accusations, the plasma of accusations! About the fact that politics wants to hire independent institutions. But when you obviously replace those politically-minded people, then it's a political intervention. Please, come on! This is exactly the same game we've seen before. This exact same game may have been even more obvious when, even on the basis of the referendum outcome, the new RTV law has been replaced by the former President of your party, formerly Mr Kocijancič, from the head of RTV Slovenia. And then you all spoke vehemently because the replaced president, the former president of a party, is now a political takeover. Such nonsense, people of God, can only be done in Slovenia, but because of the media framework in which we are, you sell because everywhere in the West, if you say that, people smile at it with tears. It's such a delusion that the world has never seen him before. In addition, Mr Rop, it is very interesting how you represent things. Just look at one example. We've all seen the video, including anyone who has Internet access, can look at it on "You Tube", maybe POP-TV will flip it again, because I'm sure they're feeding it, in a little better form than it's available on the Internet when you personally yell at Mr. Yankovic: "Policy has set you up, remember! I set you up!" With this, you have for a moment exposed this actual state that you have established over a long period of years. And that was precious. I'm truly grateful for that. Don't get me wrong. And then you represent, on behalf of the SD, a future policy withdrawal from all companies operating in competitive markets that are not of infrastructure importance. Please, Mr Rob, if you have forgotten, you said this days ago on this particular subject at the SD press conference. So the man who was obviously politically setting people up now hopes that everyone has forgotten everything and that now, as a new policy, he will offer exactly the opposite of what he has been doing all the time. Do you know that it is considered credible in politics if your actions are in harmony with your words? How reliable is your doing? Come on, for God's sake, think a little bit about it in your client too, come on! Especially because it is a society for you - it is only an interesting thing to say that people understand what these new qualities are offered, parts of the former SD minister who was replaced by the story with TAM, when the huge sum of Slovenian money went to the merchants down to Cyprus, but I don't know where to go to the south, but the TAM workers were left with no wages. Very interesting. And the third person who kept you company was the person who was at the very time of all these events at the head of the National Bank, whom we could all say, and I said this very clearly in the performance that she had a confidently extremely positive role when it came to the introduction of the euro. But apparently, in controlling the granting of loans, someone there didn't do their job. And if it's not subjective responsibility, it's objectively certain. Without the role of banks, without obviously having turned off control mechanisms there, the current state of affairs and theoretically would not be possible because everything was done on credit. And when we just wanted to make a difference there, remember what the political circus was like, including on your part, Mr. Rope. Today, however, it shows why and for whom you have worked for. Your President made it very clear that he was extremely pleased that Mr Boško Šrot was a member of your party all the time and that he was proud of his economic abilities, which are reflected in what happened. Not now you're embarrassed, because it's nice that you're happy. I personally have to say that I respect your opinion, but I would never agree with it. And now this. Look, the trick that's been used here all along, I have to say, it's already kind of transparent. I warned you before what was going on. All possible interpretations, all sales are pushed into the same basket, and one key fact is silenced. We are not afraid of confronting this subject, we just need to know that the darkness today is different. Unfortunately, the session is so guided that anything is possible. We will also meet with this topic, colleagues and colleagues, because a report from the Commission of Inquiry will come on the agenda, dealing with all these different public sales earlier and now. That's what you say when it's time to talk about it, and we'll talk about it. However, it would be correct for you to respect the Rules of Procedure and also the Presidents and to direct today's debate into those matters that are crucial. You think that none of the public notices that a mile away you avoid any debate about the impact this has in the media space, what this means for freedom of the public word, what it means that today you are fighting the SD, as the former responsible editor of Work claims, through Mr Boško Šrota and really through Gregor Golobic, as Mrs Starina Kosem claims, and are fighting for the newspaper house of Work, as "dear Tone and dear Borut" fought for public broadcasting, and we have done it in an end so that we even had to confirm some law at the referendum. What does this mean for freedom of expression? You're all getting away from this. Of course you know why. Because of the debate itself on this subject and the topic on which we cannot avoid the fact that this private capital alone has caused the total destruction of one entire organisation, specifically the editorship of the former Mag magazine, the current Reporter. Every speech on this subject makes it very clear to you and to all those who have sent signals abroad about how this government is supposed to control the entire media space and censor it, and I don't know what nonsense there is. None of this puts any more lie to all these claims than exactly this happening. The only real threat to freedom of the public word is private capital, especially if this private capital is politically raised, which in the present case is obvious and also has a political stigma, even if everyone is running away from it now, and they are pouring their ashes. And in this way, this capital, because it is even more non-transparent, means a permanent threat even to the fundamental values of democracy, because it is a constitutional right, a right to know. You know what this means if one owner says that the SD should absolutely be favoured in a newspaper that controls practically a semi-monopoly giant part of the Slovenian market, and that, as I quote, "disrupt Janez Janša". This means that there is no objective responsibility anymore, that there is no respect for fundamental professional principles in journalism, that a journalist who disagrees can only "pack the suitcases" and go or bend his back. This is a problem from which you run very far in these debates and you know exactly why. Because that's when you all yelled the opposite, when we wanted to point out these problems. Now that your bad conscience is being hidden, because this is really happening, I would like to point out that in this speech you have also presented in a wonderful way all three ways that are characteristic of this process. How do you cover up bad news in SD? With a mockery. I've been very generous about this, too, not only on your part, I admit. Complaints. This is said by aggressiveness and by trying in every way to dilute the debate, to talk about everything, about all possible sales, even though you know that it will be a second time dark and that it is not a topic today to run away from the content that you are afraid of. What are you afraid of? Freedom of the public word? Thank God if the freedom of the public word were complete and such that everyone could gladly see that every citizen, every citizen, has access to information that is correct and comprehensive at any moment. But in practice, the only democratic gain in this period is the one you all shut up about. And we are enjoying this moment, this is a direct transfer, this is something that is significantly increasing democratic standards in this country. But such events as we have witnessed in the destruction of the Magnificent magazine undermine democratic standards. However, they have been politically collected for a long time, you know when the takeover of the Pivovarna Union by Pivovarna Laško and all the other processes on pids started, that is to say capital, which was raised in this way and obviously has a very strong political background. That's all there is to it. When we decide on the conclusions today, we will decide on the conclusions which, on the one hand, allow all processes to be examined by the institutions responsible for this, namely, statements of responsibility from which we can obtain correct information. And if you want, we can meet again if you want to. On the other hand, we also request information from the National Bank, which is crucial. It is true that we can only suggest this to her, but I hope that this will, very clearly expressed, will achieve its objective. It is necessary to consider how it is possible that everything that has happened has happened on credit, with large-scale bank loans placements, and that there has obviously not been sufficient collateral in this regard. And that what I have warned from the beginning can also affect the economy as a whole. This is something that is significantly beyond all the little things you wanted to discuss today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u125	Minister, thank you very much. Somewhere it said to throw the first stone who was innocent. Comrade Grimes, didn't you just invite the MPs half an hour ago to stick to the subject? At that time, I have allowed the debate as much as I have allowed it to you, and I will allow it to all other Members who will want to speak. We have a number of procedural proposals. I set the order of procedural debates, and so will remain for at least the next 14 minutes, as long as I am in charge of the meeting. The first one has a replica of your performance by colleague Tone Rob. Here you go. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Comrade Jerovšek, learn the Rules of Procedure and give peace. Comrade Rob, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u126	Thank you. Listen, we can also have procedural proposals if we are to delay this meeting. And in that case, I could use it. But let me answer Mr Grimes. What one should say is that he was in this replica, which was actually a replica, it was no debate, confirmed what I had learned earlier in my debate, which is that he wanted to take this extraordinary session, first of all to take responsibility for everyone else, only on you, only you didn't blame anything. But if not, then show us how corrupt everyone is. And what you are, the way you've spoken now, is extremely insulting, rude and perverse. So many insults that you have said in this debate, I don't think anyone has said it today, and that's exactly when, well, now the head of the SDS delegation is telling me that he's going to say it too. [[...]] It's just the way you operate. It's probably the only way you'll manage to impose your views. But if I go in line. How perverted is what you have just said to the previous coalition, said Adrian Starina Kosem, when she says, "I was told that after Pivovarna Laško has acquired an important capital share in the newspaper house of Work, I will arrange to have a multi-year impact on the appointment of the Labour Supervisory Board and thus on editorial policy". This speaks very clearly about how and how you operate and operate. Here you explain how others have done something similar, but you have some in half arguments for this, and on the other hand, here is your own man who worked with you in your closed meetings, telling you what you were doing, what you were doing, what you were doing and what your goal was. And this was a political takeover of Del, so you hurt Slovenian taxpayers for 200 million euros and you laugh about it, Mr Grims. It's a joke for you, and that's really sad. Second. Here you have allowed yourself to explain to the Slovenian public how the previous supervisors were politically set up and how this caused all your bad decisions. Let's see what you've done. You appointed the Supervisor of the Securities Market Agency, who did not come to the Committee on the Economy on Saturday, but only came to the SDS Group to consult with him on how and how to act and prepare for the meeting. And you're saying that he's politically independent and that he's acting independently.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u127	Comrade Tone Rop, it's three minutes for the replica. Your time is up. I thank the Members for bringing this to your attention. Thank you very much. We have three procedural proposals. The procedural proposal, which has been pending for 15 minutes, is a procedural proposal from colleague Boštjan Zagorec. Here you go. Comrade Jerovšek applied two or three minutes ago. Comrade Zagorac, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u128	Given that we have already made such a procedural proposal, and I think that all the conditions are now fulfilled, even our colleague Jerovšek has joined us in the Chamber, in the Lipa Group of Members, we insist that our colleague Jerovšek either apologizes for the words he has spoken or, if he is behind his words on the bribery of certain Members, whose information he has only to speak to the Slovenian public and tell them what these Members are. If he is afraid of the public, or if these words are not relevant, but are fabricated in his head, I would ask that we immediately suspend the meeting of the National Assembly, meet with the College of the President of the National Assembly, and decide for fear, Comrade Jerovsk, that the meeting be closed to the public, and then in some secret, to which I believe he is already accustomed, tell us which of those Members, according to his information, who are bribed. I will say, gently, that I will read the literal record of what my colleague Jerovšek said, "those who praise and defend these works here today belong to this and according to my data are also bribed." Comrade Jerovšek, there are 90 Members in this Parliament. If you were aiming at a fellow Koren, a colleague of Bajc, a colleague of Friend, I don't know, a colleague of Rob, please give us these names to disclose, because if not, everyone can create their own picture and will be much more embarrassed by you, especially by the government coalition, than I look at it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since, during the procedural proposal, my colleague, Boštjan Zagorec, I noticed that there was something that called for you, that three minutes had passed, that I should inform you after three and a half years that the time counter is on the display, so don't argue with me about the countdown. It is valid for you, Comrade Zammernik, and for you, colleague Irgle. Replica or, I apologize, but procedurally, my colleague Jerovšek has it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much. You probably wanted to get my answer after six o'clock. You know, Mr President, I just want to answer you. For the first time, Mr. Zagorac reacted wrongly. Look, my data is based on Mr. Yelinčič's performance at the 21st meeting. 4. 2008 on restrictions on public function holders. At that time, Mr Jelinčič said among other things: "...on the other hand, there are various gentlemen here in Parliament who are actually engaged in political corruption, if we can call it political corruption, because it would be difficult to say that some of the new BMWs and some of the places within some of the lawyers who represent various breweries called Pivovarna L are not bribed in this case. But not only politically bribed, some of the presidents of certain political parties starting at the Slovenian L party receive from these gentlemen spaces in their official premises." At that time, Mr Jelinčič also spoke about some of the miraculous repayments of housing loans by some Members and more. And, of course, Mr President, you also presided at that time, and we look forward to it. I therefore procedurally ask you: Are you in any fear of Mr Jelinčič or why you did not react then? That is why I believe that you agreed with Mr Jelinčič at the time, and if you agree, I do, although it has been said of the Slovenian L party, have the right to quote Mr Jelinčič myself, so I have nothing to apologize for. And I think you actually have more knowledge than the second you were closer to Mr. Jelinčič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u131	Comrade Jerovšek, is this really necessary? Is it really necessary to respond to a dog screaming at the final points? Is this really necessary to respond to a man who has apparently been oversticking his scent lately? But I would like to point out, you know, colleague Jerovšek, that would be about as if I were to point out that some member of the Slovenian Bistrica, so at least the neighborhood speaks, deals with necrophilia and would like to translate to you what this means? [[...]] And would you like this to be discussed in the National Assembly for the next four years? I believe not, so I ask for at least a little serious debate, my colleague Jerovšek, also on your part. I will not make procedural proposals, Comrade Zagorac, because such a debate will not lead anywhere. My colleague Jerovšek, I also ask you for a little more seriousness in the debate of the National Assembly. We do not all need to act like noble Members in this National Assembly. That's how a colleague gets the word. [[...]] Minister, did you want a word, too? I'm sorry, I'm so confused about the list right now that I don't know who's on schedule anymore or not. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u132	Perhaps so, for Mr Rob has made quite a few flat-rate accusations that are far from the truth. You mentioned accelerated privatisation. I don't know where you see her. The government is gradually and transparently withdrawing from the economy. When we have an appropriate offer on the table, we also accept it when we do not have it, we do not accept it. And if I understand your vision of privatisation, which has also been read to be strategic investments, infrastructure, and all the rest of the withdrawal, you will probably be immediately after the takeover of power, which I hope will never happen, probably put state share in the sale in Krk, state share in Gorenje and so on. So the parade horses of the Slovenian economy waiting for these strategically, under the terms "strategic owners" to take over the market, take over and destroy these companies. If this is how you imagine privatisation, then of course our concept of withdrawal is very careful or very, very careful. And here you were talking about accelerated privatisation, incompetent management of companies. Economic companies, during the time and mandate of this government, in particular those where the country has a relatively higher share, operate significantly better under these administrations than ever before. Their economic indicators, their business results are far above average. And I wonder who set up the leadership with incompetent administrations. Read it, you are an economist, read the figures, the balance sheets, the indicators of companies in this mandate and the mandate of the previous governments. Of course, we are only talking about companies where the ownership of the state is such that it is possible to exercise certain supervisory and management entitlements. And another lie. You mentioned that the company or the Slovenian steel industry reimbursed costs in one year with a profit. You are forgetting that the country remains 25 plus one share-per-per-cent owner of the Slovenian steel industry. To share the profit created among all shareholders, and not just one. And you forget that the buyer has committed himself to reinvesting all profits for the next three years or to invest about 250 million in the company. So it is not true that anyone from the Slovenian industry has chosen any euro dividends in the mandate of this government. That's not true! We have invested in a competitive upgrade of production in the Slovenian steel industry, in new equipment, upgrades, and that is why the Slovenian steel industry has been successful. And please, let's respect the ironworks, let's respect this economic operator! But you discriminate, discriminate against customers who have applied and succeeded in a transparent process, criminalise the company, which is the worst, criminalise the company's performance. Well, obviously it should be, I don't know, a loss or something to be satisfied with. Now that there's profit, it's obviously wrong. And you're right, you're right, "profit" those, and this comes from the top, who "profits" in the most eccentric story of concentration of capital? Who? B. S.H.I.E.L.D.! What is the political option from which this comes? From the top of the current government, were you going to say? He knows where he's coming from.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes has a procedure, please. I think that's true, don't you? Please tell me if he doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u134	Indeed, only after many of the violations already presented by Mr Pece today, which prove that he is in agreement with some in this Chamber and how much pressure there is for those who do not have arguments and seek various tricks would he add that. Look, Mr Pece, before you took the lead and then you didn't even give me any more words, even though you would have had the right to do so, you have literally stated that you are humming at what we have proposed and so you are humming at the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure are clear and binds you. At the same time, you have, at the moment, commented, taken the right to "mistake" individual Members and Members who have volunteered to speak and certainly this your leadership witness of your great tribulation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u135	Mr Grimes, what is your procedural proposal, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u136	Is Undoubtedly Connected to Compression [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u137	You know him well, Mr. Pache doesn't have a replica because he hasn't discussed it, so please, what's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u138	Mr President, my procedural proposal is already in effect at this point, because I have received the word, by violating the Rules of Procedure again committed by Mr Pache, only now, i.e. I wanted only to ask him politely not to turn this respected State Assembly into an ordinary theatre, which he was doing and to leave his place to you. This has already been achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs. Orazem, a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, you will now be chairing the meeting, and I am asking that today's procedural proposals really be procedural proposals and not looking for an additional three minutes, which are being served mainly by those who have already spoken and have about one hundred and ninety minutes at hand and that is not enough, but they need three more minutes of procedure compared to those which we have as a group for a whole of twenty minutes. And today we have a pure monologue and not a parliament, and I ask that procedural proposals are indeed procedural proposals, but not blackmailing words.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I very much agree, and I will try to lead like this. Who else wants it? Mr. Pache please, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u142	Thank you very much, but it'll be less than three minutes. I am sincerely afraid, mainly on the basis of thought and the words of my colleague Grims, I will immediately come up with a proposal that today's meeting will achieve that farce that the opposition will fall from the point of clientism and corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, have you even considered what you're doing? My friend Grimes, I don't have words for your thoughts. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have a replica of the robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u144	I have very little time, and I don't want to waste too much, so I'm going to be very brief. So, these arguments, Mr. Minister, simply don't hold, are attracted to hair. Economic growth in the world has enabled all Slovenian companies to operate significantly more successfully than in the past. So, this was purely a deception to the Slovenian public, which you spoke of earlier. Otherwise, the Slovenian state now has 25% in the company where it could have 100%. However, since the price of steel has increased, that is to say, three quarters of this "profit", which is being reinvested, remains the property of foreigners, which have not contributed anything to this company. I have spoken to some of the people from this company and I assure you that they have told me that they, as far as knowledge is concerned, as well as new markets, what they have not received. What was essential was that the price of steel rose, and you didn't know it, or you didn't want to know it, and you went to sell and concentrate capital for someone else, in a harmful way. In one year and a half, they got back everything they invested. That was your gift to this company.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Before I proceed, I would like to remind you that I will truly do as I say. Since I listened to the whole debate and all the procedural proposals, almost in most cases they were not procedural proposals, but they were a debate. Therefore, from now on, we will be counting down time on such procedural proposals. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thought I'd have to make a procedural request to get to the word. We had 70 hours of debate, with respect for colleagues and colleagues, in the previous term, at exactly the same time as now. And the proponents are the same as they are today. At that time, it was said that despite arguments, the opposition could do nothing because it ruled a very strong, solid coalition that was working on its own. At the time, the readings flew like this; for 45 years you ruled this red, on a 12-year base, and you stole everything, etc. True, but why do we have the same motioners again today, we talk again and beat the crap out of us, and we're not going to do anything again. Why can't we be more constructive and at least for a sample of which we're locked up so that at least others will be afraid to stop stealing? Mr. Grimes! He's not here. I say goodbye to him. I don't want to be Mr. Robb's advocate. I agree that Mr Rop has only a last name that fits this subject and that it is somehow in the context of his last name and actions, but as many times as Mr Grims repeats itself, indeed, it is already distasteful in the debate. That's why I think it's better that we're really "concise" and say one thing once, because I believe that the viewers will also be satisfied. They'll think we're in some kind of "charech" prayer because we're repeating mantras just like that, one after the other. Ladies and gentlemen! It's my opinion that it's hard to understand a country that's been protecting such big places for more than a decade and a half. This is what's happening in this country. Small thefts, small thieves are immediately behind bars, and they generally also enjoy all the benefits of a new prison in Koper, which has even a sea view, a fitness center and so on. But big fish are free to swim in their milk, and they can't be fished. As a rule, a big fish is easier to catch than a little fish, but if it doesn't, it doesn't happen. Look, we know the irregularities, we know the carriers of these pigs, we also know the actors who carried out this wild privatisation or "acceptance" or theft, whatever you want, but we don't want to act. It's just unreasonable. The courts don't want to do their job. Public law enforcement agencies close their eyes to facts that are as clear as palms. And, of course, the Court of Auditors does not, in the vast majority, work where the pig is the biggest, but examines those companies which by number must be reviewed in the annual quota. So why do we tolerate this event, both the previous government and this government? Today we're listening again, "we-you," "you've stolen more, no, we're more honest." "We and you" are to blame, of course, for us and you, if we talk like this. But we're not here. The Slovenian national party was not involved in any of these pigs, whether it was Paloma or the Slovenian steel industry, whether it was Istrabenz or not. It's just that we're nowhere to be found. Look, I'm only gonna tell one story that's real. As Mr Bavčar came to Istrabenz - he sent the police to Mr Kosmini at the time, he was beaten, examined, he was slightly intimidated, and then agreed that he was his advisor, and Mr Bavčar left the post of Minister and moved to the Istrabenz administration, which today is difficult to say is an Istrabenz, is an OMV, and it is difficult to say that he is still engaged in the sale of oil derivatives; he will probably soon begin to deal with hotel management and so on. It is known, however, that it has picked up a number of companies that it later closed, including successful ones, such as Kolinska and I do not know which. In short, crime is kind of, and nothing happens. And I believe that even after today's session nothing will happen, absolutely nothing. And, dear colleagues and colleagues, if we are serious, we have received it today from almost every parliamentary amendment group, we will not give it, because we have been speaking publicly since we have been in Parliament, that we want to have a financial police, but today you are competing, who will send more amendments to this issue, and you are all suggesting that the financial police be set up. This is what we requested in the previous term and in the previous term, and this has not happened. I hope it's at least one of those amendments, and I can see that the coalition gave it up to be "burned," if I say so in your language. And I believe that this financial police will also have certain powers, slightly larger than that of Kosovo, which is just a collector of some data and is unlikely to be able to make a proposal for this criminal complaint. In short, if they are fair-minded today, perhaps the ransom will be at least the "burning" of this financial police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloise Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Today's meeting is intended to discuss capital, the concentration of capital and we know that for a large number of capital is the most important or the greatest value in life. And there are many, countless cases in the world and in us, when this desire for capital ignores other, more essential values. And if today we are listening only to the debate of some colleagues and colleagues, we have also been prepared to deny or disregard many other more important values than we should, ethics, honesty, truth, respect, equality, tolerance, culture and could also mention. Sal and the desire for this capital was also present in individuals in the past years, in certain institutions, in companies, in the management of certain matters. The same was true of individuals, institutions that monitored certain procedures. That is why such a topic must be dealt with with very carefully, very properly, but not in the manner envisioned by the ruling coalition - with an extraordinary session. And when I listen to some of my colleagues, it's very clear what this extraordinary meeting was about. The applicant himself, Mr Grims, has pointed out this very well in his opening remarks several times and, among other things, said that the loss of memory is a universal phenomenon and that something is wrong in our health care. No, Mr. Grimes. In our health care, however, the loss of memory is a problem for individuals. And with all due respect to you, you've told us the same thing a few times today. Normally, once, in the mill twice, you, in this temple of democracy, told us the same things five times. Probably not out of respect for us who are sitting here, but because you've been urging and urging people like Mr. Simoniti - "Listen to the people we're telling you!" It is not good to discuss in this way the sensitive and difficult things that are happening to us in Slovenia at this time. And Mr Grimes, the loss of memory, I thought about it myself when I listened to you, that you might have forgotten that you are not in 2004 and that you are not in opposition, but that you are in 2008 and that you are four years in power. That's how you talked about how this country couldn't have done anything, even though it had all the levers in its hands. And the call that Pilate made before the stone of the sinner Mary Magdalene was, "He who is without sin shall be the first to cast a stone." [[...]] [[Laugh.]] And if someone, and if all of us had thought about it honestly and properly, we probably wouldn't have heard so much perplexity today, so many general words, so much deception, so many unilateral things. [[...]] If it were the wish of the conscripts of the extraordinary meeting to settle matters, they would settle themselves in the manner necessary, in an expert way, by procedure, by law, by law, by amending the laws, not by accusing each other of each other, by profaning each other before we even see what is true and what is not true. And I could list a lot of these cases. Perhaps if Mr Tanko, as the leader of the Group of Members, had reconsidered this sentence, he would probably have assessed what was credible: what he said in the Parliament of November 2005 about the Union's Brewery and the ownership of the Laško Brewery, whether what he was saying was credible these days. If Mr Vizjak and all those who have worked so well with Mrs Andrijana Starina Kos could today explain whether what happened at the beginning of the mandate, when this lady was extremely influential, is even more powerful and powerful than Mr Minister himself, or is what they say about her today. The President of the Government himself, with this extraordinary meeting, missed a fine opportunity to throw aside here in Parliament and to make it clear that nothing had happened on 12 August 2005 and to reject the allegations and the statements of those who say that what happened then triggered the wave, what triggered the green light, or what opened the door to these acquisitions and to these accumulations. This is certainly a missed opportunity, or it is by no means certain that only two acquisitions occurred during the period until the mandate of this government and that more than 20 took place in this mandate. If I wanted to list these and other cases, some have also done so, I am sure that even if I had more time than we had given - the Zares Group and all the opposition, I would not have listed these cases, I would not have highlighted them, I would not have cited them by unnecessary names of those who are not here and cannot defend themselves, but it would actually be fair and proper for the ruling coalition to deal with this problem in the way it is intended and as correct and credible. And it was very unnecessary or even humiliating to hear the calls of representatives of the coalition and the Minister of Vision to citizens and citizens, to be careful and sensitive to what is happening, to raise capital in individuals, to domestically, to enrich. Surely it is not necessary to invite people to observe this. Sadly, this is observed daily in their environment, when this social divide is increasing unacceptably among people and when they are rich on the one hand and poor on the other. People can watch. How is it possible that someone who ate grass years ago and at a time when grass was dried over a strawed man began to control large businesses and became a co-owner? It's unnecessary for people to ask them to observe it. Unfortunately, they feel very good about this on their skin. And in the party, we are very critical of these phenomena, and therefore we condemn all non-compliance with the rules, unethical acts, and we have advocated this from the very beginning. And today, some have repeatedly stated that an extraordinary meeting is important because it is a matter of politics because it is a matter of democracy. Indeed, I agree that in the event that the Government and the institutions and coalition act as it has done in this mandate, it is indeed necessary to point out that it is indeed a matter of policy and that it is indeed a matter of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. The damage, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I should now say, citizens and citizens of the National Assembly, as previously said by the previous President. Well, let's get to the point. I think that the essence of today's debate and the situation between this government and during the time of this government is how and where the money for buying up shares is combined with the objective of concentration of ownership and acquisitions, how the institutions that are supposed to be monitored, prevented, warned and sanctioned, and how they worked before this government and how they work for the time of this government. I am very pleased that I have listened to the debate of the previous Prime Minister, the two-year-old Prime Minister, a colleague of Mr Rob, who, with incredible perversion, has been trying to convince us in some way, this coalition, our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, this Prime Minister Janez Janša, to intervene and act, because he is directly responsible for this happening. I really don't know if this is intentional 'fining', as it is called, and wants to lead us to unlawful interference in the responsible and independent functioning of institutions such as the judiciary, such as the media and specifically at the concentration of capital, in my opinion the most responsible is the Bank of Slovenia, the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for Securities. And in fact, this government has done nothing undemocratic. But what Mr Rob said was unacceptable, illegal interference with the autonomy of these institutions, even with the accusation that this government has done nothing. Yes, this government, not my government as a parliament, but the government has brought in a procedurally democratic manner the new governor, the former governor, and also the V.D. Prior to the appointment of Dr. Mark Kranjec, the governor was an ecclatant political figure. This is also seen now from the political action of Mr Gaspari. The former Director of the Competition Protection Office was probably politically motivated, but he probably had to obey orders and not act. That was Mr. Andrej Coward. When I asked the question and drew attention to the managers' acquisitions in November last year, by chance on the same day that I referred this question to the Member of Parliament, Mr Plahutnik resigned himself for personal reasons, and we have v.d. - a very active director of the Competition Protection Office, which then took place 22. 11. 2007, Mr. Jani Sorsak. A completely normal replacement, with the expiry of the mandate, also took place at the Securities Market Agency, and since March 2004, this agency has been led by Mr Neven Borak, what he has done in the meantime we know or has not done. On 6 March this year, he was appointed to this post for five years by Dr. Damjan Žugelj. But the essence of all of this is, in fact, some inertia, some perseverance of everything that has been set up in previous times, in the twelve, fourteen years. And because of the irresponsible, I think, functioning of these institutions, most of all the banks of Slovenia, such interesting purchases have taken place by managers, directors who have been appointed in the previous self-government, socialist, one-party system, have retained their functions and have been through such a game of interest and ties, friendly, party, easily audited in the cheap purchases of these companies without putting in significant or almost in some cases zero own resources or setting up their own assets. They have highlighted new companies that will have to be exhausted to return everything they have borrowed for these purchases; of course, they have already reduced their value. And one institution, which, in fact, is most responsible for the fact that these small shareholders, the workers in these companies, were outspoken, simply ignored and have none of this on their own account, but those who were supposed to represent them, the unions, did absolutely nothing because they are in this same relationship, in this same related structure of all of these, I would say, friendly relations. And of course, then the bank that's been dealing with these companies all these years, all these years, with the same directors, will be friendly, will also find that the purchases of these companies are safe, and simply banks with some of the kind of creditworthiness analyses they like, or as they call it, would approve large, multi-million-dollar loans. At the same time, during the time of this government, which inherited more than a billion debts in the Court, where both Mr Rob and Mr Cvikl acted, this changed from this billion debt to 635 million surplus money at the end of last year. I really don't know where the problem is. The problem is obvious perversion, when someone with the only argument of some statistics, how many acquisitions were before, how many of them there are now, conceals in fact their sublime game that he played and tries to play it still, if you - act like that, influence all of these agencies and peace will be. Yes, no, gentlemen. All these institutions are independent, but unfortunately some are still under the influence of previous structures, particularly the media part. I hope that, with these changes, by professionalising experts, there will be effective interventions and prevention of so-called concentrations through postal mailboxes and purchases of businesses without their own resources. I will be happy to support these conclusions and I think that it is actually a very good time and that in this year and a half the matter has become so clear, and also today's session and some debate has made clear where that original sin of the state in the functioning of this country, these autonomous institutions, which I hope, including through new leaderships, also through such debates and in particular by clearing up the public, will begin to act responsibly and in accordance with what they are meant to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The Honourable Minister. Members of Parliament and Members. Nevertheless, in the introduction, I would like to correct a fellow Member of Parliament who is not here. He said something earlier that he didn't. He said that these words were, "He who is without sin shall be the first to cast the stone" by Pilate. Not those words were spoken by Pilate, but by Christ. Of course, we could attribute to ourselves, as far as Pilate is concerned, that somehow we are all trying to wash our hands in this debate after Pilate’s or by Pilate’s, as you would like. In fact, I could go on in this direction, that we should be aware of such debates when we point to each other with our fingers, that there are always four fingers when you point to someone who turns against you. And that in Slovenia what we are talking about today has actually happened we carry the blame in a small way all in a row. At least that's what I think. In the first place, of course, politics, then it bears a large part of this responsibility of the judiciary, and the other state institutions that have not acted, bear little responsibility in all of this, certainly, even the media, which are the ones that are supposed to expose these matters to the public and often do not disclose them. Today you have already mentioned a survey that counts how many parties or politicians appear in the media. I have to say, I took an interest in looking at this survey myself. Yesterday, when I accompanied this summit of finance ministers at the 10th anniversary of the European Central Bank at the 50th anniversary of the European Investment Bank, I called the President or our finance minister and asked him if he was there. For I was on Slovenian television aware of who was there, only our finance minister could not see anywhere in this message. When I asked some reporters, one of them told me not to show it. So, if that is true, then we are indeed living in a strange country where, after 17 years of democratic change, we can today discuss in the way we speak and accuse each other. After all, in addition to all these structures, the people are somehow guilty, for the people always choose power, sometimes they say, as they deserve it. And politics can't do much if people make a different decision. People can make a different decision. I was surprised, for example, when they elected one of the richest Slovenians in Ljubljana, whom we know he did not deserve all this with his work. All of this was earned by those workers, poorly paid, but the Ljubljanaians said we want to have him as our representative, as our mayor, and if people want him that way, that's the way it is. And we can all do a little bit here in the end. In these few minutes, however, I would like to touch on two matters that have been here and are constantly exposed. Here my colleagues on the right even brought some handkerchiefs, probably ready for the time after the elections. They keep talking about this unfortunate Paloma, and no takeovers have taken place in this Paloma. There was no takeover in Paloma. We all know Paloma has problems. And we have also read in the media the findings of the audit report, which notes that these problems began with the establishment of Paloma-Horgen's daughter company, which dates back to 2004, when a large loan was borrowed, EUR 13 million, which is still actually struggling with Paloma's positive business. And then in 1998 sold storage facilities in Maribor, and today Paloma has to pay dearly for the premises he uses for his storage. The audit report, after what the media have written, has revealed no irregularities and has warned that there are many employees in this company, that the added value is low, and that this company is facing global competition, which is increasing. And we are still listening, including from Mr Rob, we have heard that he is somehow pointing with his finger at Polomo and we know why; because he is a member of the administration, a member of New Slovenia. That's why it's called Palomo. And we all know if Paloma doesn't get the owner if Paloma doesn't get the recapitalisation, then Mr Rob, I have to tell you, Paloma is another company that's going to finish the piano because in such a way that every day he creates a loss because competitiveness is too small because he's too busy, he just can't survive. And those who speak of this Paloma are doing her a bear service when you keep repeating an irregularity that the Court of Auditors has not discovered. Mr Lahovnik of the Zares party even went so far as to lie on television that the former member of the administration, the president of the administration, received 60,000 euros in compensation and this has been repeated by the media. Even though she denied bringing the case, it is likely that our courts will not solve it quickly to get us to know what this accusation is like now, but that lie is somewhat repeated. So what I want to say is that privatisation in itself is not bad if it is made transparent if the state retains its control stake and such privatisation has taken place in the General Navigation. And I don't know, I'm listening here, say, from these Slovenian National Party stormers, who are always repeating a lie, but here I'm reading a report from the State, the director of the Bandelj, who talked at the press conference about the results of the General Navigation, where he says that in 2007 there was a 41% growth in the General Navigation and that they created EUR 3477,000 in revenue for the employee. And that by adopting such a way of privatisation, the country has maintained all jobs and that today the General Navigation is extremely positive, it can even buy new ships, increase annual production and so on. So if this party's colleague wants to have a fight with the director of this company, not that he talks again and again about how a contract was signed in the Office of the Minister of Finance and so on. It's the same lie, and we all know who said those famous words to make a hundred times a lie come true. But who do we use it for? Are we doing a favor to the employees, to the company? Are we doing us a favor, Slovenians and Slovenians, Slovenians? I don't think so. And that concludes it. As far as New Slovenia is concerned, I am very pleased that we are not involved in these uses, to try to say something over this Paloma, and through the General Sailing, but, these matters, the arguments are not convincing. Of course, from the entire debate, we expect that, as has already been the case with the Committee, our proposal to decide here will also be adopted that these transactions, which have been done with large bank credits that have been saved by Slovenians and Slovenians and have been simultaneously secured by the shares of companies that these gentlemen have bought to make these transactions null and void. And I will be happy to vote in favour of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President. What do you say after all this time? First of all, it may not be clear to me how the first LDS member comes in line after sixteen other Members, of which five SDS, two NSIs and others, but that's how it is. I took this for granted, but I'm really tireder than I was at first, when I was ready to say things a little bit more curly than I thought. When I thought about what this session meant today, I kind of thought of a similar situation four years ago, a similar period a little later because the elections were later. And that's when the so-called Republican Assembly was formed. It was formed by a distinguished, now, distinguished, able to interpret each other in their own way, but the ideologies of the now ruling coalition and among them were very distinguished presidents, then the presidents of the coalition parties: Mr Janša, Mr Bajuk and then Mr Podobnik. One member lost the three; now it is Mr Schrot, who did not participate at the time. And that's when everyone said how Slovenia would be freed. So, at the time, there was some paradigm of those performances, we promise a relaxed Slovenia. Today, four years later, after these four years, we are working today to find out how corruption has increased, how they have grown and grown, and how the number of uncontrolled privatised companies and large acquisitions has increased, how uncontrolled wealth is, how they have been taken over and taken over by the media and so on. And after these four years, I don't know if anyone else is pretending that Slovenia is relaxed, today I think she's more tired. So today this is a tired Slovenia, and even more so this Slovenia will be tired when we close this debate today, when people will listen to what we are doing, and of course especially to the most principle with Mr Grims and his falansa, which has just taken over in this meeting today. I think this Slovenia will feel more tired. In particular, it escapes because this government and this coalition have promised something, promised to change the situation, introduce and implement measures that would prevent, through laws and other regulations, such acts as they once spoke about, and that was all that could be done. What's the matter? Today, after four years, we face the fact that they obviously did not do enough. They talk about how some supervisory authorities have not been properly managed, they think of the Office of Competition Protection and of the Agency for the Market in Securities, led by some previously politically directed directors. She had all the leverage to replace you. Didn't she know whether or not the hotel did it, we don't know, maybe the future will show. Today, however, these institutions have new people and these new people have become hunters for these cases that we are dealing with today. In today's debate, Mr Cernač spoke about whether we have seen where in Europe a country where a staff member appears as the richest, in this case Slovenia. So this is this country, Slovenia. But it wasn't in four years or ten years, but today, in this Slovenia run by this coalition, this government, it happened that the richest Slovenian woman has actually become a mailbox and that's why we're here today, but you'll attribute this to yourself, the consequences of this four-year work, which is also the richest Slovenian women who have been declared or classified on these scales. The talk is also about media acquisitions at this point, and it is somehow silent that some media are completely incomprehensible, but at least at the time when this ruling policy criticises takeover, it was emerging. And a Slovenian week was formed, and one would wonder where such a Slovenian week could actually come from so much financial means that it creates one political indoctrination in Slovenia and becomes the SDS trumpet. Where did the money come from to set up a suddenly buried MAG office and set up a new reporter? Whether this story has a pure basis or is it people who really had so much capital, these journalists who moved from one editorial to another, and suddenly create again, I would say, a pure, written environment of SDS provenance. From where, suddenly, money for all this advertising, which occurs and advertises in these media, mainly state-owned companies, those that have people of their own kind at the head or in control bodies. So, this is about these kinds of media acquisitions, and no one wants to talk about it, and I think it's a good idea to talk about it today. When we were talking about takeovers, it was kind of forgotten that the coalition had the opportunity to make this takeover law better. Mr Lahovnik said earlier in the debate that he had tabled, I think, in 2006 or 2007 the Law on takeovers. The truth is that the LDS, led by the first-signed Mr Lachovnik, has tabled the takeover law, the coalition has rejected it. Later she repeated her law and we adopted this law, but the LDS amendment, which we now believe would improve the quality of this law, was rejected, and perhaps we would not be talking about such a way and about such deviations as we are talking about today, and these are facts that are probably not pleasant to hear, but they are what they are. And it's interesting why you don't want to talk about those of your people who have an impact on some investments, but in Slovenia there is no longer a person who doesn't know what is doing in the hospital system, what is being done in pediatrics and what is being done in oncology, so there is no person who doesn't know the name Zavrl, Fear, so there are some actors in the client's structure, there is no person who doesn't really know Slovenia, a rare case that even the Maribor economists or politicians appear in such roles. At a time when the LDS or the previous coalition led this country I don't remember, I was just trying today to find out from memory the names of some Mariborians who would meet them in some exposed roles or in control councils or in companies where they were creating some of their ambitions and so on, I don't remember him, I don't know that any Mariborian would be, so among those who would ever draw him out of that naphthalene, but they were talking about it today. Today is a well-known example of Mr Petkov, who have the same last name as the two of us with Mir Petk, but they are not related to us, but they can successfully market this situation, in which this country today, that these Fridays were once the Barbarian Democrats, all of them in order to come from Bavčar's democracy to the Liberal Democracy, but now they have landed in the SDS, which shows that they were looking for the right place to lay eggs, and they have succeeded in doing so. So, we all know what and what impact they have on the staffing, we all know what impact they have on us that we have different Collegiates, Marines, Jezes and so on, so again from Maribor, in the organs for which it is questionable whether they are the result of good work, if they are not more the result of the political position they are in. And when we talk about all these matters, I will not propose, because it seems to me that too much has been used and too much has been mentioned, it is probably quite forgotten that if we are talking about this, everyone here, in this parliamentary session, must be credited with any of these principal sins, or we have just forgotten the likeness. A similar minister who has actually managed with very, very suspicious moves to provide funds to his almost party company, if I say so, led by a party colleague Puh, this is a well-known story, i.e. with a matter that smells, smells, smells, and SLS is somehow trying to get away from it, and he says, "We are not, because we are not the initiators of this meeting." So here you have to put a mirror on each of us and figure out who's involved in this. By the way, let me just say something that lies on my soul as the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. So, it just feels right that some individuals in Kad and Sod felt the power they had or the support they had in this ruling structure, they didn't respond to any calls, they didn't report, they didn't sit down, they didn't bill, they preferred to travel with the Prime Minister, because they were obviously close enough to him. As a result, we have actually adopted conclusions on a committee that should experience an epilogue and they will not experience it because this support is felt. I am referring to Mr Vačnik, and above all to Mr Toplak, who, with constant abstinence, with constant ignorance, by constantly underestimating this part of the parliamentary commission, has led to such relations and such an opinion as he is talking about today. To conclude, because we have fellow speakers. I myself believe that the debate in the way it was set is wrong. I think the proposed conclusions are complete nonsense. So that the government, which has so far dictated to Parliament, has dictated how it should vote on its votes, but not just on Parliament, i.e. SDS in particular, dictates to the Government what it should do. For four years, it was time to consider the role of one, the role of the executive, the role of the legislative authority, and there would be no need for such a meeting today, which I do not think will benefit any of the parties sitting in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! If citizens and citizens accompany today's meeting, as well as the media in recent days, they are probably wondering how it is possible to have a few ten people in Slovenia with a few hundred million euro assets and a few hundred people with multi-million-dollar assets. Is that possible in Slovenia? Yes, it is. And the most ironic thing is that all those with such assets were also driving in the stands, in the south, and in social housing 15 years ago, and most of these people already had a position that they took advantage of during this transition. But it didn't come from itself. This was all very carefully planned and the measures that have been taking place since 1994 have created the conditions for us to come to this. The ownership has taken place since 1994, more or less in a non-transparent manner. The directors of individual companies have often shown that for bankruptcy, they have also bought them for small money, in a completely opaque way, and then, when they became owners, all these companies have miraculously blossomed. How did this happen? As I mentioned earlier, in a carefully planned manner. First of all, there was a change in legislation, a criminal offence that, if caught by chance, no sanctions would be possible. In the D.A.'s office, they removed all such people who knew about economic crime. Then two institutions were set up, which, due to planned staffing, were completely ineffective until this year. And also, there were quite a few changes to the legislation that allowed these things to happen. And the role of banks here has been very subtlely involved in this, because in no other developed country can you get for the known property that you already own the property, 20% of the guarantee, and with us you get for the assets that you don't even have 100% guarantee. This means that all of these institutions - from the government, from the politicians, from the ruling coalitions in the past term - are colleagues and colleagues from SD, LDS and now from Zares, have been together in a game that they have been skillful all the time. And I am firmly convinced that if there had not been a change of power in 2004, all of these paradoxical institutions or companies from Pivovarna Laško, probably Krka, Telekom and everything else would have been owned a long time ago, in a way that would have been all earlier than transparent and also with individual tycoons. At the time, the matter got a little stuck with them, but things were so screwed up that it could still be done because things were extremely well covered up. And when we can hear today that, especially on the part of Mr Rope, that both previous governments and this government have not done enough. The difference is that the previous governments have been weaving this network, they have been preparing it, and in this mandate, the government has tried, as far as it has been concerned, to break this network - with legislative changes and within the framework of its legal powers. You are aware that you could replace the first man of the Agency for Payments and the Office for the Protection of Competition. I am firmly convinced that we would launch a cry and a cry of political re-enactment if the government could use it. It would probably be much better if we could use it, because it is the replacement of these two directors that shows that both one and the other institutions can be extremely effective. And I am sure that these two institutions, if the prosecution and the police play a role here too, will be able to expect visible results in the detection and sanction of all such illegals in the coming weeks or months. I will be happy to support all the conclusions that we will take today, because I am sure that the political support of the National Assembly, both to the institutions and to those involved, can contribute to making the changes that should be made in Slovenia right after 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that some of you mentioned today in the debate who proposed calling for an extraordinary meeting to be repeated. He was called by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party and we were not even invited, not us, not DeSUS, but I think not New Slovenia. However, we also did not object, and we said that we would be actively involved in the debate itself on this item of the agenda, and I think we have done so both on the working body and today at the meeting. Secondly, what I would like to say is that most of the colleagues and colleagues you have discussed so far have awakened the history of our transition from 1991 to today, some of you have listed what has happened, what has not happened, who is more, who is less, who is much inaccurate. And only one of the inaccuracies I should point out when they said who advocated that the Pivovarna Union should not be sold to the Belgians, there was no signature at the time of the signature of the 56 Members of the Council of Ptrč, Comrade Anderlič and also of Mr Brejc. At that time, there was no Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. I'm sure there's no one here in the hall who would advocate an untransparent and illegal concentration of capital. I don't think it's really in this room, especially if it has an impact on our everyday life through, as it's listed here in individual conclusions that I'm going to try to read and also comment on, but also probably on inflation and I don't know what it's all about. The next thing I would like to say is that I hope - some people have said and argued that we are all the same before the law - I hope that even after today's session we will all be the same before the law and that what happened to the "clean shovel" that they drove one with a stamp, they drove one with a personal car, and for one they failed to notify the journalists in time when they were going to work and went to work earlier than the media actually did. Now I would try, depending on who and when he concentrated capital and who had something to do with it, to try to go through the individual proposals of the decisions drawn up by the parental committee and also contribute to a shorter comment. Since we will eventually decide on these conclusions and probably not one of the audiences or viewers who watch or watch, they do not know what we will end up voting on. The first proposal is: "The Government shall, with the assistance of the competent institutions, prepare comprehensive information on the flow of the concentration of capital by individuals in the companies of Pivovarna Laško, Istrabez and Mercury and submit them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." I would have accepted such a proposal and confirmed it, but I don't know why only three. Today, you listed all of them, one and the other and the other, almost all those involved in the debate today, if you'd point out I'd probably count at least a hundred companies that were owned in one way or another. Second proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly proposes to the Bank of Slovenia to verify the role of business banks in the acquisition of majority ownership shares in Pivovarna Laško, Istrabenz and Merkur" - here somewhat differently than in the previous proposal for a decision - "and others, with the concentration of capital related procedures, in particular whether they have taken into account minimum credit guarantees rules when granting possible credits and to notify their findings in writing to the National Assembly." I think it is indisputable and that we can all support this proposal for a decision, and I will support it myself. Third conclusion: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within its competences, that it examine the legality of the procedures for determining the concentration of capital and thus the associated concentrations affect the media." Why just the media? Are only the media problematic as a result of unfair and illegal concentration of capital? I think that we are here, or today no one has talked about this because there is no content of such a proposal for a conclusion, but a few days earlier we said: the concentration of capital and trade and I don't know what kind of houses probably also have an impact on inflation and not to mention what else. Why are there just troublesome media, and I think some of them have exposed other kinds of media. Fourth conclusion: "The National Assembly proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia specifically examine all aspects of the acquisition of Pivovarna Union by Pivovarna Laško, which constitute an essential part of the process of concentration of capital, since the acquisition at the time was linked to the legal disputed sale of shares of the Slovenian Compensation Society." Do we not have competent authorities who seem to have not done their work before and that they have not done their work now? While I will support this proposal with a little anxiety, given that I would also like to be aware of what was going on, what was not, but I think we have institutions and that someone has also received an incredibly poor salary over the months and years. Fifth proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of its findings, to take appropriate measures, if they are within its competence, and to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia any necessary legislative changes which would further strengthen the role of supervisory institutions and reduce the possibility of abuse." Is that what it takes for us to call the government? I think that this is one of the basic tasks of the Government, which should oversee public institutions, public institutions, and I do not know which of them is called, say, the supervisory councils, the presidents of administrations and so on. I think the Government is aware of this, but I will be able to support this proposal without a problem. Sixth: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine, with the assistance of the competent institutions, all other cases for which there are indications of the possibility of non-transparent equity by means of connected persons or specifically for this purpose of established companies or in another legally disputed way." This is also my task to the Government, but I think that without reservation such a proposal can also support the decision. "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in examining all disputed procedures, to assess the personal responsibility involved, in so far as it is within its competence, and in accordance with its competences, to propose or initiate appropriate procedures within the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia." It's also the government's job, and I think I can support it. Eighth: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the constitutional right of Slovenian citizens and citizens to comprehensive and objective information is clearly under threat due to the market's dominant media concentration, represented by an important ownership share of several media, of connected legal entities owned jointly by one company or owner." I would just like to ask myself here when did this concentration of media capital start - or when the director or editor was named Slivnik, Jančič, Markesh, or today when he was resolved, do I think that Markesh was at Del? Ninth conclusion: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take measures to ensure greater competitiveness and plurality in the media field, as far as it is concerned, or to propose appropriate legislative changes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." It repeats almost the previous decision. The tenth decision seems exactly the same to the fifth, where he says: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be informed within 30 days by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of its findings," - on what? - "and measures under its jurisdiction, any necessary amendments to the legislation..." and so on. This proposal for a decision also - I do not know from which conclusions and whose powers it is intended to decide. And if I didn't talk too long and spend all the time, I think it would be possible, given that these conclusions were adopted by people such as, to change them, it is not possible to support them, but I think that the Government is autonomous enough to be able to carry out a number of these tasks that we impose on these proposals of decisions. However, I will certainly support that proposal for a decision that amends one of the amendments adopted by the Committee to set up a so-called financial police as well as a body that can also carry out the tasks of some who may not have done their job well so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present and to Minister Simonita! I think it is right that this issue is also discussed in the National Assembly, because economic and political elites are in some ways quite connected and intertwined, at least for Slovenia. And even the economic power of the people who have been on the front pages of the newspapers in recent days, weeks and months is linked to this political elite, I must say, especially with SD and LDS, because someone from politics had to make all this possible. These days, we have also received quite an insult not to say an angry letter from Forum 21, whose president is Milan Kučan, an honorary doctor at Cleveland University. Let's see what Forum 21 says about Slovenian oligarchs by a respected journalist, journalist Stanislav Kovac in Finance. This is a text from last year's Oligarch War, and I quote: "The establishment of Forum 21 in the electoral year 2004 has finally revealed that we have witnessed in the transition a large-scale backstage process of concentration of corporate and financial capital around many of Kučan's families. Among them are the capital and political power at the forefront of three large holding families: the coastal family of Istrabenz - the armor is written - "Kosmina - Bavčar", "Stajerska family of Pivovarna Laško" - in brackets is - "Turnšek-Šrot"; "and the Goran family of Sava [[Bohorič-Valant]] . For all three family forums, it is significant that, through the transition, with the political support of all ruling coalitions, they gradually transformed into financial holding companies by joining a number of important companies in their corporate network. Istrabenz was formed with the help of Maxime Holding and has also included in his network Droga Kolinsko and Mercator, Pivovarna Laško is closely connected with Infond Holding and is considered the most powerful holding company in the country owned by the beer industry, Mercator and media giant Dela and Vecer. The Sava is, through Gorenjska banka, inherently closely linked to Valant's NFD financial network, which is again one of the largest owners of the Sava." This was written a good year ago - 11.7 last year and, of course, reveals in very short words exactly what we are discussing today. All these concentrations of capital in Slovenia and all these transactions are, and also in some ways today, enable banks that are state-owned. The new credit bank, led by Matjaž Kovacič, played a very important role in controlling Bosku Šrotu over Pivovarno Laška, Infond Holding and the Investment Centre. The Colony without New KBM and KBM Infond would certainly not have been able to obtain the majority of the Cetre investment. As we know, and what has been heard several times in these days, and Colonel is only a postal collector. This is a company that symbolizes the final phase of Slovenian privatisation and, of course, had only one purpose - this is to erase the traces of the silent takeover of these companies. In the specific case of the Lashko Brewery. I myself, since I am a Member, have tried to respond in various ways to certain anomalies through questions from the Members. One question I asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia last March - unfortunately I have not yet received an answer to this question. The question of emissary concerns the branch of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is LHB in Frankfurt. My question is a written question that remains unanswered: "On 9 December 2004, MM Logitrend, the majority owners of Janko Zakeršnik and his sons, from Karlsruhe in Germany, filed an application for a loan of EUR 30 million with LHB. Although MM Logitrend was then a new client of LHB and it was a huge amount, the loan was granted within six days. On the part of the bank, the loan contract is signed by the President and a member of the Board of Directors Boris Zakrešek and Nikola Mrkič. The loan, however, was intended to purchase Eurocity, which is Zakeršnikov's company. This business continued in 2005, when this gentleman personally applied for a loan of EUR 2.7 million. This time, too, the loan was granted at an extraordinary rate, in five days. According to some informal information, the loan from Frankfurt LHB is to be returned through one of the Slovenian banks. It is likely that this company from Slovenj Gradc raised costs and reduced profits, thereby obtaining tax reliefs and reducing tax obligations to the Slovenian state." At that time, I asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in five points: for the first time, how could it be that a credit of EUR 30 million was granted in record time without the necessary verification of procedures and procedures; what kind of insurance was required by LHB Frankfurt for such a high amount of credit; what were the procedures for granting and securing credit in similar cases when new parties to the bank or its subsidiaries were involved; how the Bank of Slovenia acted after this case was discovered; how the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia acted because of the suspicion of tax evasion. Therefore, in addition to the conclusions proposed by us and I support them, I would expect the Government's response to this question before the end of the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Corruption, customerism, concentration of capital, these are topics that are particularly in transition countries where legal mechanisms do not always work as they should, are still up to date. Today's social situation has been the expression of processes in the last 15 years. All the extensions of these processes, I believe they come from the times of the governments led by Mr Drnovšek. Today we can only observe the extreme deformation of social relations that have been taking place all the time. The fact is that the current authorities have taken over the established and stable mechanisms. However, saying that such acts are now significantly more or at least the same as at the time of the LDS rule does not hold critical judgment. Political recruitment was significantly lower in this mandate than in the past. We cannot in any way attribute to people who have been placed in leading positions in central companies that they are politically more dependent than their predecessors. However, it must be recognised that the supervisory institutions, in particular the Competition Protection Office and the Securities Market Agency, have long been very ineffective. Only in the last period have they become more serious, which is certainly a shift in the right direction, that these institutions perform their functions, and it is important that they adhere to the laws and do not allow them to become political instruments. The amendment of certain legislation, in particular the law on acquisitions, the law on pids and the law on companies in this mandate, also constitutes a positive shift. Unfortunately, however, some of the intuitions are still relatively powerless and do not work effectively enough. In doing so, I am referring to the functioning of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. That no transition affair itself has received an epilogue in court is the burden borne by all parties who have agreed to trade in monopolistic capital. It is a pity that the war against the tycoons that have fallen into the area of illegality was not a permanent practice of the rule of law. Managerial acquisitions, or the concentration of capital "by mailboxes", are at least immoral if not illegal. It is the duty of the State to create an appropriate legal environment and control, as the lack of transparency for democracy is a poor traveller, which can lead to the rule of an Italian type that cannot be acceptable to us. The only legal solution, therefore, is the establishment of appropriate legislation and supervision, as it may happen that voters will be even more unreliable to politics, which could lead to a party crisis that can also spread to national level. A serious revision of the transition processes is needed, in particular some privatisation processes. It is simply necessary to determine whether all procedures have been legal and then take appropriate action, with the constitutional principle of uniformity in force before the law for all. I am sure that a citizen and citizens are not interested in the outcome of the two most powerful parties, which today's meeting certainly is, but I would like to answer the simple question whether the 'posters' and the various 'business parking' were legal. This is precisely the fundamental question that decides whether the new rich are already and still untouchable by the hand of justice. The prepared conclusions, which are quite a few, 12 and 13, are positive and I support them, but I believe that three conclusions are sufficient and those are effective. In particular, I think it is an important decision regarding the review of the operations of banks that have made loans at the expense of the guarantee of future purchased shares, and I think it would be right that such actions would be null and void if it were found that they were not properly carried out because I think that this would also be a public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, a brief thought of the predecessors, although Bajc's colleague is not here when he spoke about the preservation of Slovenian brewers in Slovenian ownership, the question whether this was wise. Maybe we wouldn't have this today if it were a little different. Secondly, colleague Petek quoted Stanislav Kovac as saying, this is the thinker who wrote down days ago, which my colleague Marinic also reiterated that in Slovenia we do not have the poor, that they are lazy. So, these thinkers are a little bit of a problem. However, I am disappointed at these events, and this is no longer important, we have talked, talked, but after all these predictions, what one of our colleagues said was that "I will now intervene". I expected Janez Janša to close Igor Bavčar now and here everything shows that this will not happen. There is no more talk about this, because then Boško Šrot must be with him; or vice versa: first Boško Šrot then Bavčar. Now I see that there is a new conflict on some new relationship; what Zupanov's colleague also pointed out: SDS and SD. Wouldn't it be a good thing if you two had made your own arrangements and we didn't have this circus here today, even on a public stage? And all these conclusions that are before us are nonsense to me. We are a good month ahead of leave - at this time the government will be preparing conclusions! Are we going to get confused with conclusions that are going to be adjusted during the permits? Then there will be September and there will be pre-election time and these conclusions will be ordinary ballast to throw before the elections, as this also is the meeting. And I also said "clean shovel" and now it's really going, and actually twenty million euros is a business where something's wrong, 200 cops, "clean shovel" is deep, it's got the name Friday, it's broken. And when Andrijana Starina Kosem says that a 32-year-old boy in Slovenia has the support of the Prime Minister to tell which company, who, for how much money to sell, the matter is not so simple. There they had twenty million troubled airport towers. On the other hand, we had 20 million euros in investment in Russia - Intereuropa, which grew to 40 and 60, and supervisors cut their ears, even criminals showed up, closed their doors, said criminals had been sent back out, and supervisors confirmed the investment to 120 million euros. No one's moving! Nobody moves today. Same criteria, you said. Are they really the same standards - because I happen to be a Waller and I'm not defending anyone! Or was it a commission, probably, that's what they say, at the airport tower. We're missing 100 million euros here. We had a situation in Maribor where 100 police officers had action at night, allegedly due to the EUR 600,000 tax evasion. That's a very good thing. Even if there are 100 cops out there. Before that, we had 600 000 euros in Domna Zavrl's story. What happened? They stopped the inspector twice. I hear she was an assistant here even to the tax administration's management. And they're not the same criteria here. I can't do this in this country anymore! And the institutions of the system - what are we going to do here? If the institutions of the system are flexible in such a way that they no longer have the same criteria for each other, especially political parties - no conclusions here have any weight! And as long as this thing works, the Ruše Nitrogen Factory, we voted 230 000 euros last time - sold; it is estimated that it has been 35 times more expensive in three quarters of a year. And it all shows that some amazing young guys with the authority of someone who said, you're gonna sell this factory for this money, $230,000. And we'll see what happens. Probably nothing. And these stories, and today, this distraction -- no connection. The system is failing us, the circus is in health care, in the clinical center - please! In one month, the promotion of a paediatric hospital from 12 million euros to 24. And then, of course, that miracle boy commission. In a pediatric hospital, sick kids, etc.! What someone in this country can afford!Oh, my God! And these stories are endless. And on the one hand, we are dealing with people who in Slovenia have "grabbed" a lot of value, capital, concentration of ownership or what we call it. What about that capital that is no longer in Slovenia? Where'd it go? Today you are confused by some how someone was in the party in the fifties, then is a few twelve years old, and there were two or three years left, and we also have stories where a few hundred million disappeared - in the arms trade. It's worth half a billion dollars. One book and another book. Squeakle's got so much paperwork! Is anything gonna move? Question. And here someone has to be worried about whoever's involved. But as long as it's allowed, it's not allowed. We have a Latin saying, I might say wrong, Rudy would be able to quote it nicely because Latin is a good language. And here's where to talk about honesty. People ask me to tell you which company is so strong that every week, exactly Saturday afternoon, Tednik, which says up or down, I don't know where, 375 thousand copies. It's supposed to cost one month one million euros. Who can do one million euros in this country just like that? Every month? And so many months before the election? Something bad doesn't work! And now we're here jamming. Sure. In the meantime, I went to look into the delegation's analysis group in Del. SDS and SD are at the top, one, the other. Is it that someone needs to be helped to go down and go up with the tycoons, the concentration of capital, when we don't know who else was there? The current power is certain. So I don't sell out because I'm running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, for the subject ahead of us, it must be said that she is quite rich. The transition has certainly brought certain consequences, but the transformation from social to private property has also produced some results. However, it must be said that this transformation has not always taken place so badly under the supervision of institutions. Between 1993 and 1996, the Agency for Payments, Monitoring and Information found in the audit procedures, the audit of companies for a billion and 400 thousand German brand injuries. This amount was later returned to the ownership process, but then several criminal charges were filed, I don't know, I think 183. Many suspicions were raised and 309 natural persons were involved in these proceedings. However, what has been the result of this very high-quality institution that has been very closely involved in the process of reviewing property changes? The institution's leadership has been abandoned and some new institutions have become part of it and, as a result, legislation has been amended - criminal and other legislation on the basis of which some new institutions have emerged. From a successful agency, we then received some institutions from a successful supervisory institution that were significantly less effective. For example, we got the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Agency for the Market in Securities, we got the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, we got the Court of Auditors, and in 2004 we got the Commission to prevent corruption. However, none of these institutions, which in one way or another have been created as a result of the division of the basic institution, have found any further damage to the social property or any of these. There have been strong capital movements, 100 million brand movements or even more capital movements after bank transactions to institutions abroad, to "gatherers" abroad, but none of these institutions have found anything. Why was it impossible to determine anything? Some institutions could only act on a proposal. Some of these institutions could not act on an official duty, which means that the application had to take place. However, there was no such application between the related transactions because those involved in those transactions acted in a coherent way and helped each other. And these conflicts of interest were practically absent and some of these offices have not acted. They were practically out of work for a long time. In order for this process to happen, it was also necessary to set up the right people. We got people who concentrated on the other side all the key functions that were needed to make the property transformation process even possible. We had a person who was politically located in the system, who was in charge of conducting privatisation, and at the same time was involved in the entire mechanism of all the institutions involved in this transformation. She was included in the Court, in Kad, approving programs of property transformation, writing laws. Finally, as she progressed to the post of Minister, she also approved the means to rehabilitate businesses and preserve jobs. In short, this has happened in all these institutions. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has practically never in all this process found any significant error in this process. The Court of Auditors, which carried out audits of all public institutions, I do not know, but from the municipalities upwards, has never found any error in this area of auditing. We have a very important institution that you have set up on the pressure of the Slovenian Democratic Party at the conclusion of the previous mandate, an anti-corruption commission that has not seen any error in all these major changes in the capital path, and in four years nothing has been found in this area. We have cases where some have set up a company for 1,000 euros and in a few days they have received 10 times or 100 times the additional capital, the bank capital. Interestingly, this could be repeated once, twice, three times and every time with a higher amount, securities that had not yet been transferred have been deposited for insurance purposes. And in fact, this division of institutions, this deformed control system, has enabled them to buy property and hold concentrations with pigeons on the roof. They did not have capital, they did not have money, but they were able to buy important business shares and thus concentrate their assets. All these procedures are inconclusive if they did not occur in this long period after 1996 - and even before, as I said earlier, that an institution has been replaced - if the political and business connection of the persons who participated in this process has not occurred. Policy has actively set up the process with all the necessary procedures and disability legislation, with all the institutions with disabilities, thus allowing the process of concentration of capital and equity to be carried out. In other ways, it was simply not possible. Similarly, a similar process has been carried out in the media field, all those who are heirs to certain political options of past reflection, are still aware of the importance of agitprop. In fact, on 19 November last year we saw that over one of these media houses is Pivovarna Laško, which owns the Evening, Work, Mag, Slovenian News. Of course, after this conversion of ownership shares created on the basis of legislative changes, it appears at the top of what Boško Šrot. And Boško Shrot is a member of the Social Democrats. At the end of another branch there is another name, Bojan Petan, in these matters, appears instead of Terme, or State Publishing. And in short, in this area, there has been an easy and complete domination in the media space. This media space reports, publishes articles, works of analysis, publishes polls, and in fact those who underestimate us, I have to say that we are still good at citing all this so high. Interestingly, the majority of these people who participated in these concentration capital shares were or were members of Forum 21. At the time this institution was established, approximately 60.70% of the Ljubljana stock exchange was reported to be part of Forum 21. This is possible if the Forum 21 covers all the largest Slovenian companies. If this concentration were not there, then the question of what Forum 21 would look like. Interestingly, however, all those who joined Forum 21 signed the notary record. It was not just that simple, but with a notary record, and it is interesting that there is no representative here of any of those for whom so many are declared to be fighting. These are representatives of workers, representatives of employees, but only this management is involved in this system. And this management is simply thinking about the future fate of this country. In short, all this transformation of the transition that was carried out could not be done by real socialists, could not be carried out by real communists, but could only be done by real robbers. As far as the conclusions are concerned, I think we have prepared them properly in our Group of Members. I hope that the Government will also draw up appropriate answers and proposals at the time available, and that we will be able to discuss this properly on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Who's the magician? The visaer, on behalf of the government, expressed support for today's meeting and said in haste that he expressed support for the decisions taken, was not far from the truth because only the magnetograms would have to be read and the government would have to do nothing but find Members and Members of the largest coalition party to gather and all things would be on a platter. But I had a problem when I asked Minister Visiak if he was aware of what was going on in Paloma and how he was going to act. That's what I asked him in December. He said to me in January: "With the event in Paloma d.d. I'm only familiar with the media. Any interference by the Minister of Economy would constitute an interference in the management of the company, which the Minister of Economy is not responsible for." But this same minister signed an ethical code that says, "I will make clear, clear and clear to the public my views on issues in my field of work and the reasons for my decisions. I will help to prevent and detect irregularities and illegality, including corruption and customerism." That's right. The representatives, the Director, Kad and Sod also did not promise to help regulate matters in Paloma. But today we read in a message from the STA that Paloma’s public letter invites the leadership of Kad and Sod to do something and to resolve it, calls off the board of society because they are in violation of both of what they promised to do. In order to inform the Council of Workers and the Supervisory Board of what is going on in society in due time. None of this happened! We are discussing the right to information. I simply cannot consider the Slovenian weekly or the Reporter to be a newspaper exercising constitutional rights. And Minister Simoniti - thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! 31.5.2004, item 2 of the agenda: Addressing corruption, customerism and money laundering in connection with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, public companies or companies owned by the majority state and the policy of the ruling parties in the Republic of Slovenia and the issue of the effectiveness of state authorities in preventing large frauds and contrived bankruptcys with proposals for conclusions. [[...]] Editor to this point, Mr Janez Janša, today the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What can be estimated today after four years in view of the large hourly, time - consuming dimension of this debate in the National Assembly? After four years, the coalition group of Members found, after four years, that it should propose to its government that what the Prime Minister of the Government said at the time as the first man of the opposition should have been said four years ago - and if he then said seriously and deliberately that he had actually forgotten that in these four years. In fact, from this point of view, I assess the call of coalition Members to my government to say no to her at this point. For how to understand that in all these conclusions you are imposing your proposals on the Government, what to do in this area, about which Mr Janez Janša has already talked vehemently about all these connections four years ago. How it can be understood today that you are serious and responsible that you have done what you are saying today in these four years that this government should do! Unfortunately, you cannot convince me and I am sure that you cannot convince the electorate and the electorate, i.e. citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For how to understand the decision under number 10, which speaks of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be informed within 30 days by the National Assembly of Slovenia of its findings, etc. and proposes proposals for measures to amend the legislation and postpone it to the National Assembly within 60 days. What did you do for four years, coalition members or, more specifically, members of a majority government party, that you did not impose this on your government at the beginning of this mandate? This would be correct if, after at least one year of the work of this government, such proposals would come with such conclusions. This is what we would expect of you on the basis of your promise to the Slovenes and the Slovenes to do differently, when you were talking about big stories, you were talking about the big scandals, you were talking about the embezzlement and the thefts. For thieving! So these are very strong words, and today you are talking about how you feel about it, both Comrade Grims and the Minister himself, that the credibility of a Member is a policy if his words are consistent with his actions. Colleagues, for Rush, I'm only quoting you two. For the first time, I quote that for more than half a year, this government has not shown a serious and responsible attitude to clear up the TDR Metallurgy sales events. Today, almost 200 people have lost their jobs. He was not able to respond properly to the Minister or to the Government. When we come with these questions after two written questions to the National Assembly to discuss this, it is today so vehemently said: let us clarify all the details. Which of the coalitions or Members of the largest government party voted in favour of clarifying these details? Who? Take a look at this list of votes, and your colleagues, yours, SDS, Ruše, writes Janša: "the party is controlled by the uplifters". Why don't you worry that the Friday family has increased its turnover in multiple factors during this government, while one of the family members was a very close associate of the government, the Prime Minister of the Government. Why don't you give the right answers here? This is of interest to the Slovenian public! And if we really want to answer these questions correctly, then of course it is the responsibility of every member of this national assembly, both coalition and opposition. And if we're talking about correctness and credibility - just look at that! And if you're talking about why there's been a variety of information going into circulation, what they're writing to you, the Russian colleagues who are writing to you, controlling your client, and exploiting uplifters who are only "for their own benefit". This is what your own colleagues are writing to you, and this is what the opposition Members are telling you today, that if we talk about these issues, we are talking about them properly! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much. So what I've already said about credibility, sir confirms. Let him say thieving is about thievery. Give them a name and surname, brave man. Tell them, a credible party of yours, that they speak of themselves as climbers. Look how many of you are in the client's room, since you've all lost your way. You got away, five of you are still not - to them who are the same. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u173	Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for the replica. It's just an exact statement. I quoted the speech of the president of the current government, Mr. Janez Janša, at the meeting of the National Assembly 31. 5. 2004 and I quoted the text of SDS Ruše - not anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u175	Thank you. Replicas on the replica, but it's not easy to pick up Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u176	Thank you very much. So I don't know what it's called. I'm not saying anything that they could have written from the SDS - okay, they think, there's nothing wrong, it'll just be cleared up in the client or anywhere else, but your client, whatever it is, is whatever it is, if it's credible, if we're talking about the president and some parcels in Piransk, where some institution forgot to issue a rejection contract for one day later - we'll see who's credible and credible. We'll see your president and her husband or her companion get the plot in the Piranese territory! In view of how many of you you are, your credibility shows; of course, those who have left are not credible. Of course not, because those who betray or abandon have always been in history at the bottom.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u178	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I don't know why all the ministers here are just "frice and frace" to talk, but it's a habit. You will arrange this in the government, and of course within the coalition. I am glad that this meeting has taken place; I am glad that I have already seen the last time you have happily voted against the government proposal for something to happen. And I consider this meeting to be an honest infidelity of the SDS to my government. In three and a half years, she couldn't do everything you're telling her to do in one month. In this mandate we have adopted about 1,000 new laws and amendments to new laws, 40 meetings of approximately 25 such decisions at the meeting and there was no room for all the bites and excitement you had to settle other matters that you knew were going on. You knew very precisely, something out of self-knowledge, and we also told you many things in the opposition. At the time of the adoption of media legislation, the law on RTV, which we said was a pattern of behaviour for later laws, is said to be a pattern of behavior such as you introduced into RTV Slovenia as a state or government or client television, so that it will then go on to other media. You didn't believe it! By means of the media law, you have, of course, enabled this to happen, what is happening on the relation of the owner, the executive director or the director and then the editor. Today he "split" Markesh. Not because I'd be weak, but because it's enabled and it's very convenient for you, but maybe it's good for someone today, or it's good for them. But the matter was not prevented because it was still in your hands. When she left your hands, she suddenly became indisputable. I'll say an anecdotally: I had a acquaintance who stole his net for his beam. And I said, "Report it to the police!" He said, "I can't, I stole!" That's about how it went your way. And since that's not enough for you, now you want to mobilize all the people because you've been wronged. We want to be tycoons, you're just not lucky, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u180	Look, I'm glad that democracy is and that it's possible to say anything in Parliament, even those things of poor people, in fact, about what it is that someone wants to be a tycoon can't be. You can't insult me. You can't. Even if it's not my level, it's not your language.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u181	Mr. Gulic, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u182	Dear Mr. Secretary, I can't go any lower. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u183	Mr. Magg has the word. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Now it's 8:00 p.m., and we started at 12 o'clock today, and before that, the board sat for two days. And the result of all this - what is so far? Tell me! These 10 conclusions that we'll then adopt, we'll take something, something with amendments. I don't know if that's a solution. All together is one story, from which viewers and viewers, voters and voters will make each other their own story; each one cheers for his own, and then in the fall they will share the Oscars in the elections. And that's probably the goal. I'm sorry if I might have made it a little easier on the good intentions of some. But as a member of the Slovenian National Assembly, I would have expected a fourth term here, in this building, on such serious issues that we are talking about today, here at the table a proposal to amend some law in the field of justice, in the field of internal administration or something like that; to come, they would have said, "Look, this is happening, it is imperative that we change the law so that it will not happen again!" But now that we will order the government to study and not know what everything - I am in this government, I support this government - I also supported the previous one because we have always been in coalition- but, look, we do not get to that. Here we go, we cheer each other for our own, and there is no result, and there will be no such thing. That's what it says. It's not my sincere intention to solve the problem we're trying to solve. As far as ownership is concerned. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated that we must, in particular, play a very delicate part in the sale of state property, that national interest is at the forefront. Remember the discussions in the previous mandates when we talked about the ironworks, about the power plants in the lower Savi? What they were like back then - heads were flying because they failed what someone had imagined! Is this not the right solution for our companies to build this and that this remains within the Slovenian economy? Another story is Litostro, if you remember what the offers were then, I think that from that Swiss company when it set the conditions - for a price they wanted to buy back, then they set the conditions that if it didn't work, for the first time, they would have to get the job, and if it didn't work out, then the state would have to buy it back. And that's supposed to be fresh capital. And, thank God, that didn't happen. Then the story of selling Lek, if you remember how it happened quickly, we sold Lek. And now compare these two companies, Lek and Krk. In these companies, I have quite a few colleagues who will tell me how it is. You can't compare them. Lek, of course, profit goes elsewhere, development is elsewhere. Krka stayed here, stayed in the New Town, wages are better or better, and also somehow helps this part of the Slovenian economy. This is certainly a national interest. And today, if we devoted this time, these eight hours, to a strategic debate on what it means to own, as much as it remains, because we have failed in the entire history of the Slovenian state to strategically agree on what would be important and to unify at key points, irrespective of the political option that we belong to it, we have failed to do so. And that's why things are running, and everyone's pulling in their own way, and looking for assistants within the government. And here, as a people's party, when we had an influence, with nine ministers and nineteen Members, we could have prevented something else. Now, in fact, we can't even prevent any more things - maybe we could. So that I wouldn't be too long, colleagues and colleagues, I'm not promising anything from this meeting, no real result. None of this will happen, this will go on, we will adopt these conclusions, and until the elections, I am sure, nothing substantive will happen in this area. As for the media, freedom of the media. I think that such freedom of the media as it is today has never been like this - that everyone can write everything and say everything and nothing happens to him. What you can read about certain people to condemn them, I don't know what they're all about, and it's all about universal Slovenia, I don't know, it's a disaster. And I think I'm going to conclude, but above all, it's a moral issue. The issue of morality is both in the field of media and in the area of ownership and everything related to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The leadership of the National Assembly gave us a third of our time, a proposaler, and a fifth of our time with the Government. It's just an option we've been given, so just a few quick conclusions. With all clarity and determination, I say that, not only today, but also in all our operations as former parties, we have acted against corruption, against the theft that we have been for fair ownership and, as everyone claims today, I also argue - look at every decision we have made, look at every proposal in a specific law, look at the amendments we have made in this mandate and in the previous ones and prove where these actions have been that they have been illegal or harmful. Whether everything will be crystal true, it is only on the basis of the facts that can be determined, but by no means on the basis of the general charges that we have been on our client's account today, on the account of our President, on the account of the media and similarly received, but only on charges. None of the things have been proven, none of them supported by anything, except that colleagues and colleagues from the Yankee Democrats think they can say anything and that with that moment it is already the truth. We agree to do an analysis of the entire ownership process since 1992. Come on! But not as Mr. Tanko will have it in mind. Then let the appropriate institution do it, and I can do it with the help of a government team, but let's make it objective and fair, and we'll find out that we've made mistakes. Done. Each of us who have been in Parliament at this time as a party or as individuals have ever missed something, but today's meeting is not even meant to determine it. Today's session, Mr. Juban listens to me, I think it's precisely what he found out - the elections are coming. In preparation for the elections, all parties do not have the position they want. More and more critical of the government are those who do not believe that everything has been done in this mandate, as promised in 2004. And most of the problems at this point are felt by the ruling democratic party. So far they feel that she has forgotten about her coalition partners and she does not even ask them anymore whether they would call together and on the same issues, but she refers to them herself and thus only proves her relationship in the coalition, how she has relations with her coalition partners and how she has relations with the public. With this I do not want to defend you in human, DeSUS, New Slovenia, far from this. But we have been saying all along that unfortunately you have been in a position to obey and act only as you were commanded. Today, this has also been strengthened in practice. I agree with Mr Bajec, who said that because we can support all conclusions, nothing is wrong. However, I personally feel that all these conclusions have only one purpose: to show people that they finally, four months before the elections work and that they want great results. What about before that? Secondly, the ruling coalition party would have the opportunity to convene another meeting at the end of August or early September. Before that, any report by the Commission which examined 83 cases, including Mercator, since this leadership of the National Assembly prevented Mercator's case from being dealt with on its own and because the main players were reluctant to call, from the President of the Government and those who were interviewed by the President of the Government on 12 August to give an oath to the investigative commission what they were really talking about. Why wasn't this crust called and cleared up? However, this was hidden among 83 cases that were not objectively cleared. And today, talk about what is going on with the Anti-Corruption Commission. Yes, it can be said that she did not give results only how she would give them if, from the beginning of 2005, the entire ruling coalition acted to make her incompetent or to replace her. And today, he hopes part of this coalition will talk about just changing the body that will decide the same issues. That's not true. The same authority will decide on the supervision of the assets of the officials. But this commission also had preventive action, it had the opportunity to form general positions, people trusted it and turned to it. The international community, including the United Nations, recommends such commissions, and the ruling coalition did not like them. Because if other supervisory institutions were wrong, then this one, apparently. So, gentlemen, let's be honest with each other. Let's say that the only point was to get an apology for the ruling democratic party for failing to deliver on her promises made in 2004, and that that's why she had to stage this meeting. I get on behalf of our client to anyone who gets the feeling that we wanted to accuse each other, I apologize. We didn't have this desire, but some defenses were needed on false charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mag. Grims, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u188	Thank you. One more word. Look, if everything that's been said about these things were to be said now, then I'd actually agree. And if the composition of the SD Group of Members were as it was at the beginning of this mandate, then there would be a lot to discuss. Some of the things that I am about to say, and only to be rendered false by these words, could, of course, be said in any case. When it was said that responsibility for each action was taken, I would then recall that I had already shown the 2003 decision earlier, the Minister who was a member of the SD, and compared it with the 2008 government decision. She's completely the opposite. The then minister allowed Del’s newspaper house, Delo, to increase Pivovarna’s ownership of over 20%. This was a key condition for what we are witnessing to him today. Just today, by chance, but what significant gesture can actually come from such a case, was resolved by the current responsible editor. In 2008, however, the Government made it very clear that, under the current legislation, no one should ever have issued such a decision as it was issued in 2003, as the proportion of this newspaper house on the market was above 40% and therefore no one should have ever received more than 20% in it. That's what you say, the responsibility here is obvious. Then even more in the sky sobbing in some way is the responsibility in relation to the criminal code. Earlier, one of the coalition colleagues asked what else we had to do. He asked a rhetorical question. But I am sure that a key change has already been adopted. A few days ago, criminal law was finally passed. Not only does it exacerbate the penalties for economic crime, it not only exacerbates the penalties for corruption, but it also brings many other positive solutions. For example, it protects young women from imposing contracts, shameful contracts, so that their employer can break their employment relationship if a young girl becomes pregnant. Many words were made by the SD on gender equality, on the protection of the weaker. But when the bill was voted on, you were in the hall. Therefore accept full responsibility, for these acts are those that bear responsibility after themselves, these acts are those that speak, who are those that show a clear difference. And I had already started with the fact that you now have Mr Rob and Mr Squeakl, from the beginning they were gone, but together with the other two when they arrived, you made them a special reception. You honored them with a ceremony on their arrival. And today it's only becoming obvious why. When these people communicate with the public, they sometimes use amazing things. For example, Mr Rob spoke earlier about economic growth and compared it with that of the previous government and suggested a sentence a little later - yes, because worse than you do, but really you can't work anymore. Yes, please! One of the fundamental characteristics of politics must also be the ability to confess to someone if it achieves a better outcome. At the time when Mr Rop, your Member, ladies and gentlemen of the SD, began his mandate, that was the second half of the previous government's mandate, at about the same level of inflation as at this moment, economic growth there rose to 2.3% by the end of the year, to 2.6%. Last year the government achieved 7.2% of economic growth in significantly poor macroeconomic conditions, with significantly more expensive oil. More than three times as big. Not a third bigger, three times bigger! And such words, of course, do not sound credible. Just as you are saying that you are bringing new quality to support the culture of dialogue, Mr Rop, I did not get a word from you before, to answer, to have practically defied me by saying that he was politically qualified. I was just saying the fact. He said himself that he was politically employed. When he squabbled at Mr Jankovic, the director of the administration at the time, he said, "I set you up, the politics set you up." So he made it clear that he was a political man. So you were politically incompetent, because you did the celebration when he came to you. And why are you out of your mind today? Not only do I take full responsibility for every decision I have made here, but many of them are happy. Be glad of your actions, too, and come with them before the electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u189	He's got the word. [[...]] Yes, Mr. Potch, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u190	Mr Grimes showed by his performance how right I am that the issue of the idea of the success or failure of this government is at stake. And I will not deny economic growth because, thank God, it exists. I will not deny the reduction of unemployment because, thank God, it exists. But I'm going to say that we have terrible inflation, not only by the government's fault, but it's objectively here. And a year earlier, we warned that it would be, and the government said, "No, no problem will be inflation." Until we're in a situation where a lot of people barely live, and it barely takes a month and a day. And that's what you have to say. Now, about the rules of law, because I happen to know something about it. We were all obliged to go into reforming the administrative system also in the area of economic procedures and infringements. And part of the offenses became crimes, most of them became economic offenses, no one, including the Democrats, objected to this because it was a logical reform that we also had to introduce as one way of implementing an equal system with the European Union. Second. The limitation period has never been reduced, the penalties have been adjusted and most penalties have not been reduced and the remaining limitation periods are therefore the same. And what you're saying today is not true. However, in some cases the limitation periods have changed due to reduced penalties. And what you're saying today about the Penal Code, we had different views. You think it's an excess of democracy if you've extended out-of-date deadlines. We have said that it is important to agree on the reform of criminal law in a professional manner, but not to force the National Assembly to adopt such important legislation by vote or by two majority. That's bad. You have been warned by the President of the State, and I think it would be a time for Parliament to stop acting this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's obvious that time is going to be the one that's going to make us a little difficult to do some things for too long, but let me say something about it. 31.5. World Sports Day. This government, led by John Janša and this coalition, is in good condition. They're on their way to the mid-term. I'm sure you can handle the other half. With regard to Mercator's sale, respected colleague Potrč, you had the opportunity and had the opportunity to cooperate with your members on the investigative committee on the sale of Kad and Soda shares. You have probably rejected this on the grounds that you do not want to cooperate where it is possible to expose sins from the past. This is what we are talking about today. You know, I'm not an economist myself, I've said this many times, but at the time that I led this parliamentary investigative committee for several months on the sale of para-state shares of companies, I've found out a lot of things, along with those fellow Members of Parliament who had the will and wanted to participate, and I'm also going to say it in a proper and particularly constructive and working way. We have already submitted the final report to the President of the National Assembly, and I hope that something will soon be included on the agenda. At that time, we will be able to talk about the vital things that have happened in the past. And where exactly is the original sin of concentration of capital? In the sale of State shares through Kad and Sod, through non-transparent sales, which allowed for different concentration of capital through so-called straw companies. This includes people who are precisely known, which political options in the past belonged, from the very top to the lower officials. All of this was also related to valuation houses that carried out individual valuations. A fine example of how these valuations work in agreement with the then political leaders was the valuation of Insurance Company Triglav in 2003. We can't shut our eyes here, so we can't look the truth in the eyes, see how it's all been assembled. And one more thing. Speaking of Mercator, I think one of the colleagues said very well where the comparison might be between selling Mercator shares, one part of Istrabenzu and one part of Pivovarni Laško. And the visa is to compare it to then taking over Lek. You know, taking over Lek, which happened in 2002, compared maybe to selling a stake to Mercator, here's the big difference. What has Mercator actually done since 1999? He also concentrated with the help of political bots, made it impossible and brought in small merchants who, after 1990, decided to set up small shops with a resource for survival and later failed at Mercator's expense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, everyone! Public support for this government and Parliament has been steadily falling for some time, and I think the measurements will be even worse in the coming week. It's no wonder. We are stealing time from God and money from taxpayers to ruin such a beautiful day, not to present solutions, but to present a typical pre-election promotion session. This leading party, the biggest Slovenian, and this government is sitting behind the steering wheel of this vehicle, not somewhere in the trunk. Approximately this is how you today act as if parents blame underage children for the failure of a family. I expected you to prepare concrete solutions at today's meeting, to predict next month, and to have five concrete anti-Tacoon laws at the June session, which will undoubtedly end and improve the deformities that have taken place, including with our assistance and assistance. That all these deformities, all the irregularities that have occurred, will no longer occur in the future. That we will no longer witness such shameful stories when, for example, Iskraemec we did not hope to sell to the Slovenian owner because he is a successful and, for example, an honest entrepreneur, that the country jumped first from the Ljubljana dairy train and that there are many of us in Slovenia, as well as in Gorenjska, the fear of what the fate of those companies that remain in state ownership will be. Would you, say, sell such a distinguished brand as Pekko to a Russian, Chinese, Indian, or some other tycoon? And that's what this is all about. More than words need to be done, it is necessary to draw up legal solutions and foundations that are simply eliminating all such deformities, which we have talked about too long and too widely today. No time for words, it's time for action, and I'm glad you're running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! Well, I have to say that it's really hard to say something new after eight hours of discussion and I even thought I'd give up the debate. Earlier, however, the Minister of Culture Simoniti had somehow encouraged me to discuss, however, how much someone has profited or lost as a political party over the transitions from one party to another. This certainly applies to today’s subject matter. A representative of the SD started the debate by writing here a hundred kilometers around shows that someone from the chicken house is stealing chickens. Okay. That's what Mr. Kumer said. Then your colleague continued. Why do we sell chickens that carry golden eggs? I thought that today we would be discussing chickens or Roma who steal chickens, but thank God, the debate has only turned in the other direction, what is today dark. But I must tell you that I have always had a very instructive saying with my heart, which also refers to chickens, namely: Don't invite foxes into your henhouse. It seems that, dear colleagues and colleagues from SD, you did not know this proverb the most because in this henhouse of yours, but it is well-intentioned or positive, not only did foxes come, but the frisky foxes. And unfortunately for you today, it has happened that those of the LDS, who have ruled for 12 years, are now in the SD, and in fact you have taken even greater responsibility for what happened in the past, when you ruled. So today I have noticed something good or good will on the face of the LDS, because some who in the past had great responsibilities when they ruled came to another political party. Yeah, that's just the burden you have to bear. And in view of these facts, I will always defend this or claim that all we need to know is that the 12 years were just LDS and SD. And what was not right in this government at the time, we must also condemn it. And I am glad that in New Slovenia we are not burdened with the past. That is why we have also proposed an additional decision, the eleventh decision that all those who have come to property in an unfair manner are obliged to return this property. And those who have parked their assets in "post office mailboxes" are obliged to return this property. As a result, I will gladly support this decision, as will all others. It is right that the people, a handful of people today with vast wealth, are responsible for the way in which they came to this property. We firmly believe that this was unfair, so all measures should be taken to ensure that people also return this property.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan. Here you go. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Stan Pike. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. We're talking about the concentration of capital. This is not wrong if capital is concentrated if this capital is acquired in a fair, transparent way if someone comes with fresh money, invests and there is nothing wrong with such concentration. The wrong concentration of capital is that it is done in a non-transparent way, that it is disguised, that it is done with parking spaces, that it is done with by pass companies and that it is done in fine ways and that capital is hidden. And who does that hurt? It harms workers in particular, so they have lower wages, it damages the development of the company that is being exhausted, it harms everyone after all, the development of the economy in general. See, €1.5 billion is estimated by one such company that had its capital saved somewhere. Do we even know how much money that is? This is 15% of the budget, about 15% of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia per year. Do we even know how much money that is? And this is proof that this concentration cannot be done in one year, two, three. This was planned for many years. It's too much money to scrape and scrape together for such a short period of time. Of course, we wonder how this could have come about. This is where the bank loans came in. There is a question of their insurance, the question of the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, whether the guarantees were correct, the institution is independent. My question is, where did they get the credit to such companies so that they could raise so much capital, and with what guarantees they could do it? It went more or less in the way that it was a national interest. My dears, this is not a national interest! By no means! — 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. National interest is a good economy. The capital that you have acquired, however, is very questionable because it can happen that they have exhausted these companies so much that they will be sold at a price. This can be a result, and this can damage our economy as a whole. This is a problem, a problem of small wages arising from such exploitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I agree with those who estimate that it is in some way double-faced and ridiculous and even circus-like that the National Assembly debates corruption and acquisitions. It's funny, because it kind of aroused people's anxiety, anger at politics, because it makes them distrust us who work here, the rule of law, and in some way even their honest work. If we really had fair intentions here in Parliament, then we would have long ago passed those laws that would have prevented what we are talking about today, which would have prevented it. Because we could do a lot more to enable independent and professional work for prosecutors, criminals, justice, the police, budgets, material conditions, appointments and the like. Because in this case, for four years, we would have strengthened the work of the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission, not that we stopped it for three and a half years and took its reputation in some way. Because they would increase the importance of the Court of Auditors, not that we have or have underestimated it, that their recommendations and opinions have been ignored by no one, including the President of the Government. Unfortunately, we are not here in Parliament or have not started. But now, at the end of the term, and especially after the obvious actors and holders of what we are talking about today, this script, which has started and we need to say something more than once today, this scenario, which began on 12 August 2005 and was planned in the office of the President of the Government of Janša, but when they got into conflict with each other and, apparently, some of them went on their way and the Prime Minister of the Government grew over their heads, only now in the SDS have they decided that we can start the topic again, somehow in terms of: the attack is the best defence. And we've started and persecuted the tycoons, and today we've also heard oligarchs who aren't on your side, gentlemen of the SDS. Why would they forget in the works and in the debate and in the conclusions, and go around the whole series of disputes, which they helped and held, or actively cooperated with, your people. And that's not missing. There's been a lot of talk today. A lot of people have already mentioned something. In fact, one dreads what has accumulated. And if I mention something very quickly, then allow me to say and welcome Mr Secretary-General of the Government and the member of the SDS, whom we ask, as we have been doing all day, all this time on the Istrabenz control committee, which is on the wallpaper today. Today we have talked very little about the subject, which is probably also painful for you, namely, armors and purchases and the suspicion of corruption in purchasing armor. Me and anyone else wonders who influenced the Slovenian police, that until the last few days, until a few days ago, in fact, with all the indications, information and everything that was written about this business, in fact, that it did not. And that's what she did, I'll say, in a way, when things started going somewhere else in Finland. And it's very funny, in fact, that today we were able to hear that they would come to Slovenia if we let them, Finnish criminals. Probably because they suspect that our business is not capable of doing it properly, honestly, and independently. What the Minister of Economic Affairs and a member of SDS Mr Vizjak did in Terme Catež and when selling shares in Sokske power plants and Petrol and so on. And why was the investigation "clean shovel" when it came dangerously close and came across the name Boruta Petka, who had long been employed as secretary of President Janša's office, which suddenly diverted from the investment at the Brno Aerodrome and that huge airport tower to somewhere else, to tax evasion and to Mr. Zidar. And that's where the darkness got uninteresting. What was the impact in all these years of the Friday family, which is closely connected with the SDS in the personnel settings in Petrol, Hit, the Post of Slovenia and so on, if we remember the statement, today the repeatedly quoted Mrs Kosmove, who said that the service in Maribor could not be obtained without the influence of this family. And last but not least, what is the impact of SDS on gambling in Slovenia. The SDS is controlled by Casino Bled, Casino Ljubljana, Casino Maribor and Casino Šentilj. People everywhere with your IDs. And, of course, allow me to mention also the very moral attitude of your member, Mr. Bogomier the Grandchild, who was sitting in the supervisory council of Casino Bled, there held a staff for him another member of yours, and only in 2006 he received 250,000 euros for advice in that casino and a horse for the surface as a procurator in Sloveniales. And we talk a lot about brothers. We talked a lot about a brother today. About the other brother, about Rajko Janša we are not very much, but also this gentleman is very much involved, in Simt with friendly connections, where there was a great influence and connection with Istrabenz, but also there some octopus and hunters could draw and, of course, also with the Tetra system, which remains in his hands, because of course it is a system that allows listening. We could still list it. You don't like Domna Zavrla either, although your miracle boy and his advisory services were at the Pediatric Clinic and so on, all the way to Mr. Simoniti, who, of course, has been sitting here all day with us, despite our opinion, for example, the esteemed Dear Jančar, that he could never have imagined a better director of the Ljubljana Drama than Mr. Janez Pipan, just a few days ago, which should have been a political decision, and one last exchange of politically inappropriate people, not by me, but by what theatre critic Matthew Bogataj says in today's Evening. Today, we are particularly looking to the past, and it would be essential to look to the future. And these conclusions that we have before us today are very selective. Only some companies are listed. Others, those who may be connected to you, are not, as in Slovenia, only those who are not part of our story that are not related to us are like in Russia. They also have this pattern in Russia. And this was also pointed out by the philosopher Žižek very insightful. We believe that today we should also make such commitments in Parliament, so we have proposed and looked to the future by finding consensus and in Slovenia forming a financial police [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and to commit all political parties before autumn, as we have already committed ourselves in our programme months ago to giving power away from the media. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. As a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u202	Well, according to the end [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u203	Mr. Grimes, as a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u204	As a proponent, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u205	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u206	In view of the final words about self-limitingly putting their hands away from the media, I am simply quoting an article published in the newspaper Reporter, which is also the subject of today’s paper. Andrijana Starina Kosem nailed it, and I quote: "that Markesu will then be able to find a job only in Youth. Otherwise, Golobic will put great pressure on the president of the management of the newspaper house, Delo, to set up a publicist, Miho Kovaca, but they did not remove it in Pivovarna Laško." I wonder how this goes along with the earlier words, what kind of misdirection is there, unless we are looking at this comparison, which I have already presented earlier, that on the other hand, Mr Boško Šrot has demanded the "congregation" of John Janša and the support of the SD, that it is actually a lost anger in Zares, because obviously in this conflict, the SD winner has fallen and will now be forced into this newspaper house. If that's what this is about, then I understand. Certainly, though, what has been said does not excuse that. Again, it was a grave offence under the rules of procedure in force, as the lady knows very well that the Patrienne are the subject of a special investigation led by someone from SD and that they will also be subject to consideration when the relevant report is submitted. But if this is about this inter-party conflict, which is based on the vote after the media that these documents testify to, then it's something that I understand, but then please don't turn it into our account. Here they are, and let them get together and decide each other, as before 'Dear Borut, dear Tone', now that they are together, 'Dear Gregor and dear Borut' let them talk in public, but not burden the National Assembly. However, the National Assembly should follow the principle that the constitutional right of citizens and citizens must be fully realized, so that every information can be made available from different angles at all times, as this only allows democracy to actually work. All the developments that we are talking about today, which we are witnessing today, speak of the fact that because of this concentration of capital on the "kaselc firm" with unclear ownership of this freedom, this constitutional right is threatened.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u208	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all present, especially to the government's representatives, led by President Janez Janša. I think the opposition just swallowed the saliva. I'd give you the next one. From the existing debates, it was heard that this was a pre-election move by the Government, but also nonsense, which the opposition, of course, also said, was bad for this government. I don't know why this opposition didn't propose dealing with such or similar points if it's such an opposition point and so very good. I say whatever the procedures are, the results will be visible in the end. Take, for example, the list of the richest 100 people in Slovenia. But I do not mind if Mr Akrapović, who has achieved such results with his knowledge, work and effort, is on this list. But it bothers me when some people get that kind of money in a different way. And, to sum it up, of course, these are mostly or even your members, sympathizers, adherents. Look at that, that's the result of it all. And in the end, people will also be judged on the basis of such results. And here I have the result of only two of your members who have actually crossed over to you. Mr. Squeakl, which, I will say, is fortunately not here yesterday and we've ended a lot sooner than we should have. Look, from 2000 to 2001, he was chairman of the Board of Directors of Soda. During this period, shares were sold in 91 companies. Of these, only two shares with a call for tender. Everything else is out of invitation to tender. You know what this is like under the table, you'd say homely. Mr Rob was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court from 1993 to 2000. They sold 734 investments totalling SIT 29,987 million, 29 billion. Of course, this is in the report, stronger than half or most without public invitations to tender. Yes, how have things been going? Ask yourself that! And today we have these results, as we see them. So I don't see anything wrong with the government here if she's decided to get to the bottom of it, and once she's told who it is. For if we look at only one thing, this your perversion, already here in our country is not clear who is left and who is right. You, distinguished gentlemen of the opposition, and your supporters control the most capital in this country, we see it from these amounts, in one way or another. But you appear before people, in front of our citizens, for some kind of left. I don't know how this works with normal logic. Of course, I expect results from this meeting, contrary to some who have debated that they do not expect results. And that's the real results that will show what was really going on. Not just through the media. Look, we also got - that no one will say that the government is not working - the ecological fishing zone for Slovenia has been abolished. Yeah, well, it didn't say much. And that ramp with Mr. Joras will now stand up and remove those pots. So I believe in this government, and I believe in its good intentions, that it intends to sort things out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! At the end of the Slovenian Presidency, I think the European Union is going wrong in this country. On Sunday, I was watching teletext and there was one of the main topics that was marginal, which was to lead a heated debate between the protocols about who the host of the First Lady of America should be. We have a President, who is also the President of the European Union, who is the head of the right, but not married. And from this we make the Slovenians a problem and we publish these things in the public media. In recent times, it seems to me that the whole Parliament and the entire situation in the National Assembly are also wrong. Dear colleagues and colleagues, do you remember how in this lobby some of the parties signed a non-aggression pact on a proposal from the Prime Minister, where we committed ourselves that we would not have any interpretations during the presidency, that we would not be talking about each other badly during the Presidency. Today we're really talking about some kind of interpolation. We'll tell you in the end why. "Urbi et orbi" we explain that the President of Slovenia is choking on the European Union in corruption, clientism, or worse, Taiwanism, this is a modern term that the ruling elite cannot possibly put on the edge of with all the influence and apparatus it has at its disposal and with all the promises it has made before it took over this authority. We have seen something similar before the end of the previous term, when there was a debate here about who is most suitable for the next term and who is the most honest, who is the most struggling for a fair regulation in Slovenia, and in this way the voting was obtained. I expected, my fellow Members and colleagues, that today the Minister of the Interior would also be sitting here to say something about how successful we are in these matters. I know you've gathered now. You've been gone the whole time. You've come to see your beloved leader, and please leave me alone to speak here. Look, after that wonderful deal about Mercator's sale, a little after that, there's a robbery at the SKB bank. You can be in the way, buddy Rudy. SKB bank. That's probably why they're supposed to fall down there, so they can rob each other of their valuables. But, among other things, it wasn't. Some valuables lay scattered on the ground, despite the multihour work of these robbers. But some documents have disappeared from Gantar's safe. What documents have disappeared, why have they disappeared? Then why did the sharpening of the battle that triggered this purchase of Mercator begin? Did anyone ask you a question? Is this thing cleared up on our side? How long has it been? A year, two years. Is there any information, at least a little? There's nothing known about this. And what are we doing here, my respectable colleagues today? The meeting was convened at the initiative of the ruling coalition party. I think the ruling party in the coalition has the government behind them because they're all making deals. And if we wanted to prepare these things, we would coordinate at joint meetings and we would come up with one piece and a concept here, and so we are asked to instruct our Government, which is headed by their champion, for the first time that the Government, with the help of the competent institutions, should prepare comprehensive information on the concentration of capital by individuals and so on. Now one and a half months before the end of the National Assembly! Another time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, within its competences, examine the legality of the procedures of the concentration found and the related and impact on the media. Yeah, what have they been doing in the government all this time that right now is one month and a half position for the government to dictate that you do that because she saw that something in this country is really wrong? Next conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also examine in particular all aspects of the acquisition of the Pivovarna Union, which is an essential part of the process of concentration of capital, since such acquisition was with the legally contested sale of shares of the Slovenian Compensation Society. Does the Government in the Slovenian Compensation Society have such influence or nothing? Is it now necessary to determine whether the Government should have found out earlier? Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, on the basis of its findings, take appropriate measures if they are within its competence and propose to the National Assembly any necessary amendments to the legislation. Should the government have done this earlier in order to do so? Does he have a chance to submit this legislation to us? As far as I know, I could do it. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also examine, with the assistance of the competent institutions, all other cases for which there are indications of the possibility of non-transparent ownership of capital and so on. Is this a month and a half now, or could the government, in order to control the situation, have done these things before? In examining all the proceedings at issue, the Government of the Republic shall also assess the personal responsibility of those involved, if any, and shall propose or initiate appropriate procedures under the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with its powers. Yeah, what has the government been doing so far not to do that? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should take measures to ensure greater competitiveness and plurality in the media field. Could you have done this sooner? Why are we now imposing this upon her or you are imposing this upon your own government, but you did not warn her of doing anything in this area? And so on and so forth this can be read. As much as my humble knowledge of parliamentaryism, a respected colleague and colleague, allows me to believe that this thing points to the government, or it is written by some kind of interpretation against the government, that it has worked for four years, that such things may have grown in this society today. If the opposition demanded this, I would understand somewhere else that the position requires this and imposes eight or nine or ten conclusions on the government, but forgive the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this upside-down world - what I said at the outset. So in my humble opinion, in fact, here, my fellow Members, you are dealing with yourself; a position with your government, if you have looked at it. This is somehow not the custom in developed democracies, but in my view, this is mainly indicative of something. You know what? Why you took so much time, the government and the proponents, so much time, we poor poor people there had to be satisfied with some minutes, but because you had so much time, and if you looked at it, there was a minister and a proponent when there was a time when there were direct transfers, a nonstop "on the stage" when it was gone, but the whole thing got scared. And in this way work and try to paint people with cheap political demagogy again: "Love for us, for when we come back to power, you will see how we will cleanse this country of all the irregularities that have now been all four years!" I think this thing is nothing but one fight for the electorate. And because of this I think it is right that we have spoken - Mr Jerovšek, I have told you many times, be brought up, for if you want to raise, you must be brought up. In the 12 years we've been together, we could've learned this once before, but you're not doing as well as we thought. So I think in this case we have "Comedio dell'arte" in the National Assembly, but with very serious consequences, you know. What's going on here: someone sees one part, someone sees another part. They'll say, "Oh, my God, these guys are really good, and they're fighting for us, and they're against it." They do not know, however, that the Prime Minister has under his command directly around 34,000 people, are on his payroll, and that if the Government were to function as it is, and all those cases that Mr Prime Minister put here four years ago, he has resolved. How many did she get rid of? How many of those involved in corruption have actually been imprisoned? How many corrupt people do we have locked up? There were so many words. This shows that the government in this mandate has not, in my humble opinion, done what it promised to electorate four years ago, and this is just one blind maneuver to get people on its side and to vote again for the option, because in the next four years it will try to achieve what has been promised. I don't believe it, as I don't believe it, that when you promised that the stores would be closed on Sundays - they're closed, and I can tell you seven more! And it's right that people hear what we've been trying to say in this place today, and then they make a smart decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! We've been discussing for 10 hours and we've only been waiting for the Prime Minister of the Government to join us, so I'm going to start with his quote four years ago when he said, "College Sok, when you're in power, you're going to be able to speak all sorts too. When you're in power, you can say anything and decide and nothing happens to you." I must say, four years ago, those were prophetic words if I return to this day. When I listened to the debaters, especially from the SDS, from the ruling party, how many misgivings, how many lies, and how many responsibilities I heard in those 10 hours, that is, I will say, almost "mission impossible". I must remind you, the well-respected coalition, of the ease of understanding that we are in 2008. And in 2008, you've been in power for four years and you've had every opportunity to show what you know and what you don't know. You had all the levers in your hands, and we saw where you got to. But surely you are - I can say that the only thing you can show is yours, and the only fact you can show is this, and that we can also meet among people when we talk about people living four years worse than they did. Their social status is significantly worse than it was four years ago. People just live harder. Of course, you don't like to talk about these social status, respected coalition partners. We've opened up a lot of this in Social Democrats, in Really, including DeSUS, in LDS, and you didn't think it was worth talking about. Today, when you've had a fight with some who've been protecting your back, today you call them tycoons, an extraordinary session. Very interesting. I have to say something, and I'm going to say it very honestly. I come from Lasko, and I was elected there. When I meet people in Lashka, I must say that they are very concerned and that they are afraid of the fate of the Lashka Brewery. I'm not going to say it for leadership, but especially for the mud of the Laško Brewery. The Laško brewery remains and brewers have existed since 1825. And I believe that Slovenian Democrats will not succeed in such a tradition, such a trade mark despite all the lies. I could count it, but I'm running out of time, and I believe that now the government will be able to tell the boss everything and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u214	Respectable. I am sorry for only 15 seconds left, but I cannot really develop my reasoned debate on this issue. On the basis of my views and knowledge on this issue, however, I will support the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that I've been sitting at this point for a long time, and I have to say that I've listened to a lot of different words about "mail collectors" and so on. I have to tell myself that nothing has ever fallen in, as has been said so many times today, just some kind of newspaper. Some of those on whom I am commissioned are not on some, but I do not intend to cancel or prevent any, because there is always some real criticism in these media and these criticisms need to be imagined. Whatever they are. It's easier to cancel the ones you're hired to than the ones you're not. In view of today's meeting, I fully support the opinion given by our colleague Marjan Drofenik, the opinion of the SLS Group on today's item, where he initially stressed that we do not support the concentration of capital in a manner that is in any way questionable in terms of legal and formal reasons. Nor do we support the concentration of capital by uprooting small shareholders by using internal information and by silenced parts of target companies that are market-interesting for subsequent resale, thereby creating the extra capital gains used to repay the leased loans and so on. Well, I'm not going to repeat that opinion. Although I was absent at that time, of course, I fully agree with this opinion, which we have also somehow tried to create together. So, in all of this, of course, I miss the work of the relevant institutions of the country a little bit, which should do their job better if it is conduct that is not legal. In these cases, in particular, because, of course, these institutions are difficult to carry out their task for practices that are not moral. Of course I have a little criticism for that. As you know, we have a coalition treaty and we have a protocol on the cooperation of the parliamentary groups, where it is agreed that each request for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee, after an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, will try to coordinate in a coalition. We found out about this meeting when the request was already filed. The meeting four years ago, which was of approximately the same content, gave a similar discussion as this meeting today. Personally, I would be much more pleased if, during this period of four years, we adopted a law, some of which would probably be necessary, or a amended law, which would allow this debate to not take place today. I don't know what we were doing in the coalition, what some ministries were doing, economics and some other. And what they did, after all, also state representatives in some supervisory councils in companies where ownership was or is still national. Therefore, the conclusions that are ready and which are primarily in charge of the Government will be useful at the final stage, the question is what else can we do in this mandate. I have a feeling that this is more a way to work in the next term. And as I say, I will support all these conclusions with the hope that the results will be positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Root, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, Mr President of the Government, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Seventeen years ago, we got Slovenia alone. The long dream of Slovenk and the Slovenians was realized. But independent Slovenia also had to bring transition and ownership, because it was imperative to change the system, because the single-party system or, to put it this way, the unity lost its time. And this transition and property has brought good and bad things, and I'll say what two genders have been. On the one hand, there were people who worked hard, who may have lost their job because of the loss of the market fighting for daily bread. We also had a second group, a very small group of people who initially were the same as this large group, but were at the right time in the right place and were just bad enough to take advantage of this time of transition and ownership. And they may have bought a social apartment at a very affordable price first, and then they made progress. Everywhere in Europe and the world, they say, money makes money. Yeah, that's right. Money makes money, but there's been some kind of miracle. Someone who didn't have money has come up with a huge amount of money, such that most Slovenes and Slovenes don't even know what kind of wealth they've come to. Today it was said that four years ago, there was a lot of talk about the release of Slovenia. Is Slovenia still free? It's for some, there's not for others. Perhaps for many of these tycoons - many of these tycoons live very uncomfortably. He's under a lot of stress, he's worried about what's gonna happen to his wealth. But I'll say I'm glad I don't have these problems and I can sleep peacefully. I also hope to say for all my fellow Members in New Slovenia that they sleep very quietly, that we are still living in a relaxed, satisfied Slovenia. I have to tell my colleague Zagorec first, because he went back to the hall because he was asking or worried about whether I might not have been bribed. Mr Zagorac, let me tell you, I am not bought, we have a very peaceful conscience and I sleep very peacefully. Yes, the question was asked, by him it was mentioned! I did not devote any particular weight to this session, but I must say that when I received this large white envelope this morning with what is an extensive content, which says: Dear Member of the National Assembly, Mr Koren Drago, and above: The Society Forum 21, and when I read all these papers, I thought, yes, but something must be on my own that former President Milan Kučan writes and reminds me of what we should be paying attention to today at this meeting. This has not happened in this four-year term either. So I thought about it somewhere, and there's something just got to be on it, and it's probably not that clean. Yes, it says yes, and Mr. Kučan wrote to me. [[...]] At least that's true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u219	Members, allow the Koren to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u220	So, if it's just me, then I have a particularly here written: Milan Kučan, so maybe I have special privileges to have this mail alone. [[...]] [[...]] Let me just say one last thing. What's going to happen after today's session? Nothing will ever be the same as it was; if so, I will be extremely happy. In order for it to be no longer the same as it was - there is only one decision to be taken for this. And this is conclusion 11, which I think is the solution and the remedy. Even if no other decision is taken and only Decision 11 is adopted, the matter will be resolved. Finally, let me just say that I am truly glad that Nova Slovenija has nothing to do with the tycoons, has nothing to do with the concentration of capital and can go quietly into the new mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u222	Your Honors are here! I am very pleased that the President of the Government, Mr. Janez Janša, has now joined us in the Chamber, the man who, as part of the 2004 election campaign, acted as a speaker with the WD-40, is about as if today this same gentleman [[...]] [[Talking in the background.]] May I ask, thank you very much, this same gentleman has performed with the symbol Paloma. [[...]] It's corruption within our country. The Anti-Corruption Commission notes [[...]] [[Talking in the mess halls.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u223	Please. Take it easy. Time's running out. Look how long it's gonna be, 'cause it's gonna be over soon. Please. Mr. Pache, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u224	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would like to point out the most important things that this government has actually made possible. Firstly, the largest number of so-called acquisitions was in 2007. In 2007, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was already strong, in the second half, President Janez Janša led the government. In the same year or year before, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision to dispose of the assets of the Soda and Kad or to sell 231 investments outside the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members present. On several occasions you have had the opportunity to discuss this or these situations in the National Assembly. You have always prevented ruling Members from discussing the sale of 231 investments in this National Assembly. I will not say that only on the proposal of the Lip Group of Ambassadors! There were a lot of suggestions from other opposition parties, but it was always a clear and crystalline answer: "No, the National Assembly is not the element that could discuss the availability of state assets!" And now, after three and a half years, someone realizes that he's only just figured out whether or not he's been informed in connection with management acquisitions. Please! According to my assessment, this does not indicate the concern of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as it is trying and all the difficulties it is working to show that this is the concern of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is simple: if someone has not been able in three and a half years, despite having all the elements, all the levers, the scissors and the canvas in his hands, stick to the wings - in other words, to propose to the National Assembly such legislation that would prevent it, then, forgive, the government we have is simply not able to rule. The mandate lasts for four years because it is estimated that a significant step forward can be taken within four years. Four years is a long time. And that someone now comes with the same element of the electoral campaign, despite the fact that he has repeatedly made friendly links between the capital and the corrupt policy that has been taking place, at which point we have seen no more than many times in the framework of the government cabinet, within the framework of the two banks, the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank, which have repeatedly funded only current management acquisitions, while ignoring and forgetting who appoints administration, supervisory board and all other bodies within these two banks. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! And if there are Members present today when you vote in the National Assembly, remember only one conclusion, a decision that could have good consequences is realistic. Everything else, what you are trying to convince the Members present, czech, the National Assembly instructs the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to finally begin to understand its powers - please! That's Larry Fari. Or that the National Assembly dictates or proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that law enforcement authorities are also in this country. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not know this, then this is another proof of its incompetence. But the proposal for a decision that we have already offered to you in the context of the Lipa Group of Members on the working body, but you did not support it, is a proposal that, last but not least, I am not ashamed to admit it, Mr Mencinger. Why do we not, and now, ban all current procedures for the sale of state property until we get a response from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in cooperation with the National Assembly: Why is it even being sold? At what price? In what way and what will be the applications for the property sold? Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal for a decision or, rather, an amendment, refers to a 12th decision. It is signed by the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. All the other conclusions you are proposing are, of course, conclusions that the National Assembly shall inform the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the existence of the Securities Market Agency, of the existence of a commission of this and this, of the existence of courts and similar matters. With only one conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber we can meet the realization of what is full of mouths are you. Otherwise, and I fear that the decision will not be adopted, it is only a school case of double morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Drofenik has the floor. You want a word? [[No, he's canceling.]] So, we are done with the list of Members and Members. The word is government. Anyone in the name of the government? Mr. Minister? Two hands raised for a procedural proposal. Mr. Run, please. Please, first a procedural proposal, then an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that I am appalled at the behaviour of the President of the Government towards the National Assembly. He doesn't respect this national council. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u227	Mr. Potts, you know this is not a procedural proposal, and I ask that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u228	He doesn't respect the opposition, and he's not ready to listen to what the Members think. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u229	My predecessor, Mr Vice-President, cut off a series of abuses of the Rules of Procedure by saying that a procedural proposal is being made in time for the debate. I ask you to respect what my predecessor has decided, because I will continue to do so. Mr Potč, I asked, first a procedural proposal and then an explanation, and there was no procedural proposal. The other one who raised his hand is Mr Zagorac. Here you go. Mr Zagorac, first a procedural proposal and then an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u230	I would love to please you and the politics of this government! Look, I'm going to make a procedural proposal right now. Members of the Lip Group will not cooperate or listen to the address of the Prime Minister - in three minutes. Now I have three minutes to explain why not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u231	So you're predicting obstruction below this point. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u232	Mr President, if you will listen to me until the end, you will also understand what we are predicting. I have drafted a procedural proposal at your request, and now you will allow me to explain it in three minutes. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Blue Book, which Mr Grims has been referring to for ten hours today. The first thing I have to stress is it seems to me that it is shameful and unacceptable for a respected mandate-holder to come when almost everything is over. You knew exactly that you were coming when your words by the opposition and by the coalition could no longer be replicated or said. We also find someone in the coalition who would object to your words. Trust me. If I can move on. This extraordinary session, no matter who's first signed under it, is your idea. History, honourable Mr. Mandate-holder, repeats itself. Because of your fear of lack of votes, you chose the same procedure as it did years ago. At that time you waved at this WD-40 pay phone like the opposition February, today you don't have the courage to wave Paloma handkerchiefs because you're in another role. We both agree. But if you want to use them, I'd be happy to. They're on the table. Another matter I'd like to highlight. A general opinion in force in this country, and you may have grown above it when you became the mandate holder of this country. It is among the people that, as long as this government wins again, I will replace the country. So I will end with the words - not the state, only the government has to be replaced! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u233	Thank you. So, Mr Zagorac has announced the absence of the Group of Members at this point. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Also a procedural proposal, I would like to emphasise, I am obliged to prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] Mr. Skolcz, first of all, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Allow me to make a specially mangled request for a Member who has obtained the necessary votes in the elections. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u235	Mr Ptrč or Mr Školč, your time has run out because you were running out of time, which was available for discussion. But you have a procedural proposal and please give it three minutes. First of all, a procedural proposal. You'll have to wait because you're running out of time. Allow me to give the floor to Mr Bajc for a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u236	Mr President of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament. I expect and hope that we will conclude the meeting in full, as we have done, and I will make one procedural proposal, which may not have the basis in the Rules of Procedure. I suggest that if we agree that all the parliamentary groups have a chance to discuss, let's say, five minutes after the appearance of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u237	Mr. Bajc. You had time to discuss it, but I concluded the debate. So this can't be a procedural proposal. Mr. Skull, I think you can fit in now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and I decided that we would not listen to the President of the Government because he didn't listen to us either. It is extremely embarrassing that the SDS, I myself have spoken, announces this meeting in three limbs, we ask questions to the President of the Government, we also ask questions to the secretary who has come now, we spend all the time, and then they come as divine revelations and think that they can lecture Members and Members. It is underestimating that the debate initiated by the largest parliamentary group is not accompanied by the person elected on their proposal for Prime Minister. It's also underestimating to other and these little tricks, I'll say, Bolsheviks, but we can't accept them. If the President of the Government is not willing to participate in the debate with us, I don't know why we should listen to him now. We'll be able to read all his accusations in the free newspapers he distributes around the houses. All these accusations you're making here, we'll be able to read in the media where you have influence. So we can't defend ourselves in the same way, because we don't have access to that money that we're guessing today, where it's all gone. Mr President, if you are protecting the integrity of the National Assembly, if you respect the Rules of Procedure, then we should also ensure that the President of the Government respects this space and the National Assembly. I mean, he's not doing it, and that's why I don't see any reason to listen to him right now. He didn't get involved in the discussion for a moment either. His adlatus are here, and I'm gonna say, by the way, they were teasing people who were asking them questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u239	Thank you. The LDS Group also announced the absence of this point below. But I would only point out that, ladies and gentlemen, today's point is not interpellation, but it's another matter. On the subject assigned to the Committee on the Economy. And the Minister of Economy was present all the time on behalf of the Government and also the Minister of Culture, and I think they are authentic representatives for this topic. I thank you for the Government's continued presence at this point in the agenda. Mr Minister spoke first for the debate. Here you go. You still have time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u240	Dear Members and Members! Honourable President of Parliament, Honourable President of the Government! In the introduction, I wanted to draw attention to all those legislative proposals and also to explain the detailed content adopted by the Government in this mandate, which have created a regulatory environment which, on the one hand, promotes development, initiative, the competitiveness of economic operators, and, on the other hand, establishes a certain way or a certain system of legal certainty for economic operators and prevents abuses both in economic law and in financial instruments and in the capital market. So, this is always weighing, on the one hand, legislation that allows the development of those economic operators who want to develop on the usual path where Slovenia has also been successful in the last period, and on the other hand, we have sought to ensure legal certainty and a functioning legal system through a number of measures under this legislation. However, I must stress that the drafting of legislation is only part of the activity of the rule of law, that is not all, it is just one element, an important element which you have created as a legislative body. Supervisory institutions and courts are also a very important pillar of the rule of law. And during the period of drafting this legislation, in the first period of operation of this government, we inherited, in my opinion, the barren institutions of oversight that have overlooked, according to my assessment, the deliberate number of phenomena which were contrary to the legislation. Therefore, it seems to me, honourable Members, to blame ineffective legislation not sufficiently substantiated in order to explain the background as well as the results and epilogues of the events we have witnessed in the last ten years. Respected supervisors in the securities market and in the Office for the Protection of Competition were placed just before the expiry of the previous government's mandate and in some way renewed their mandate. Apparently, the former authorities were pleased with them, agreed with their inefficiency, quietly allowing the concentration we witnessed and the loading and parking we witnessed in the transition process. At the same time, the opposition kept shouting, literally shouting about the tsunami, preventing any interference by the current government with, therefore, the key people who acted in their behalf, their cause, and probably also in their direction. Mr Cvikl is at Parliament's meeting in the context of the questions sent, you can read the magnetogram, literally to me, to see why I do not directly influence the work of an independent market regulator. Apparently, he did it all the time when he was a minister in the previous government. And the result of the failure of this segment of the legal system was caused by some floods that have come out today. I am convinced that the drafter of the rulings with the Government is determined to end this. It is determined, through the professional, independent and effective functioning of supervisory institutions, to identify irregularities and sanction them and to place the right in its place. Therefore, the Government supports the proposed conclusions because they build legal certainty in the functioning of the Slovenian state and also build on confidence in the system that has obviously been launched, conceived systematically, sophisticatedly, and this system is being launched for many years. Here I do not want to touch the excessive court and courts, which is the next element of the rule of law, because most things have not actually come there. But those who came, as a rule, are obsolete. And forgive me, although a decisive legal norm is in the rules adopted by the National Assembly and proposed by the Government, if there is no control and if there is no formal sanction through the competent judicial institutions, it means that this norm is null. And here to say that it's a cumbersome legislation, it's too simple and, in my opinion, it's also completely simplified. So, respectable! In this mandate, the government has adopted several rules that have ensured greater transparency, security and, on the other hand, prevented the concentration of capital. Let me write them down. The new company law, so-called ZGD-1, has introduced new measures for greater transparency. The Enterprise Treaty is undoubtedly an annex to the minutes of the Assembly which issued the decision on consent to this Treaty, namely Article 535 of the Company Act. Management must also clearly point out the presence and absence of such transactions in the report on relations with the ruling society - this is Article 545. Several important provisions and measures are for the greater responsibility of the management and control authorities, referred to in Article 544, paragraph 547, paragraph 548. Today, the possibility of fictitious transactions or the possibility of burdening and assisting the target company by a natural or legal person who wants to buy shares of this target company - that is, the assistance of the company that someone wants to buy. These are fictitious jobs. They've been fictitious since 1993. And today we are to say that we have not listened to the opposition's proposal to propose an amendment to the takeover law to sanction fictitious transactions - of course, if this is clearly and loudly in Articles 247 to 253 of the Act on Economic Companies, that is to say in the Economic Constitution. So, fictitious transactions are nothing, they have no legal consequences. And if they are proven, then they can also be clear relationships or assets that are thus acquired. Very important, the Company Act builds on the responsibility of the managing authorities. And the law tightens the terms of membership. Let me remind you of the arrangements we have inherited: one person may have been a member of five supervisory boards or five supervisory boards or boards, and additionally in five supervisory boards of subsidiaries, before this change. So in one person, ten control functions could be concentrated. You have prepared and prepared this in your laws, Your Honor. That is why we are witnesses today, and power has concentrated in the hands of individuals. We have, of course, prevented this and, in Article 237 and Article 273, we limited it to only three mandates in the Supervisory Council - but before 10, they said. It is also very important to upgrade the audit and management of claims in companies. We added the auditor's liability for compensation and the prohibition of the compatibility of the functions of an extraordinary and regular auditor, all in the light of greater transparency and the determination of the actual situation. The whole stack of articles is in the new law on the protection of minority shareholders. Thus, the Company Act has made a significant contribution to the integrity, probably to the deliberately built up elements of the accumulation of capital from the past, from the past company law. And if anyone wanted and established a more normal relationship, we did so within the framework of this coalition and this government by means of a new company law, which for the first time is in line with European Union directives. Let us touch on other important systemic legislation. This is the new takeover law. Let me mention, Your Honor, your approach from the past. By the time the new takeover law was enacted, you had excluded Kad, the Court of Justice, which was not subject to the takeover law, was not applicable to the companies of the authorising officer, was not applicable to the successors of the pids and the Republic of Slovenia. So, you in the previous coalitions, you didn't have a takeover law! You could have concentrated capital within state funds and parastatal funds, commissioners, successors of pids, whatever anyone thought. Only with the new takeover law has the application of the takeover legislation extended also to those entities that have enjoyed privileged status for decades, i.e. Kad, the Capital Society, the Slovenian Compensation Company, companies authorised in various companies, the successors of pids and so on. The securities of the target company are also newly identified; that is, the securities that are the subject of the takeover offer. In particular, a newly defined way is to calculate the proportions of voting rights held by each individual in the target company and is key to assessing the achievement of the threshold. What is very important is the new definition of persons acting in a coordinated manner. The law provides for challenging and irrefutable presumptions of concerted action. These assumptions facilitate, significantly facilitate, the Securities Market Agency, which is a supervisory institution, over the takeover law, this is a work to prove a violation of the takeover law. I do not know one measure of the Agency which would only identify contested or indisputable assumptions of coordinated action. The fair price to be offered by the tenderer in the takeover bid shall be new and shall not be lower than the maximum price at which the acquirer or persons acting in concert with it have obtained securities within a period of 12 months prior to the publication of the offer. The protection of a fair price is guaranteed another year after the takeover offer. Time limits shall be set clearly and transparently in the taking-over procedure, with the deadline for the acceptance of the take-over bid being 60 days or 60 days from the publication of the take-over bid. All parties, and in particular workers' representatives, are required to be informed of all key elements related to the takeover offer. A new and more substantial penalty is laid down for infringements, namely the standstill of voting rights from all shares - the current takeover law has only laid down that part of the shares that went above the threshold. This means that the violator at the assembly was not able to exercise his voting rights at all. The fines have also increased. And now, dear, as parrots, you ask me why there have been more acquisitions in the last period! Because of the fact that they had to happen, because we have tightened the legislation, because the legislation provided for larger penalties, some have obviously acted in a related way and have also implemented, applied, announced a takeover offer from this title. Prior to that, they were hiding in parking lots, concentrations were allowed in individual parking lots, agreed and voted together and played minority shareholders, small shareholders and many times the country. In the past, I can also tell you on a case-by-case basis: a private owner close to the LDS option plus the country is the same private owner close to the LDS option. Thus, the State assisted this individual with all the means of voting in the congregations, everywhere, and only when something went wrong among them did it leak on the day and float to the surface. Your Honor, this was what happened when you had scissors and canvas and when you had holed legislation. With the new takeover legislation, most of this has been carried out within the framework of the acquisition bids per day. Once again, the takeover law has strengthened procedures, imposed higher sanctions, introduced new indisputable assumptions and thus ensured greater legal certainty for particularly small shareholders, since the takeover legislation is primarily a measure to protect the rights of small shareholders; if some large shareholders control this, they must also make a correct offer to small shareholders either after withdrawal, fair price and respect their rights and also provide them with information on this. And I'm really asking you to go a little bit further into the law and into the edge of the law before you express criticism at her expense. The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments was also an important upgrade to the legal system. In 2007, the law adopted, in accordance with European Union standards, lays down, inter alia, rules on disclosure of data on issuers of financial instruments offered in public and traded in an organised market. And other rules that ensure transparency and integrity of financial instruments, including investor confidence. An important provision is that abuses and practices are prohibited, i.e. market abuse such as internal information trading and market manipulation. The law on the legal successors of the pids was also passed in 2007. And, sire, I am convinced that it is very crucial that we be aware, and not least, that Parliament also communicates clearly to the public, the professional public and the other institutions which form the legal order in the Republic of Slovenia, that we must finally act in the spirit of legislation, that is, in the spirit of preventing such phenomena, because it bites people. People feel justified, they experience a sense of injustice, and as the opposition has done today, it has been repeatedly said where those peaks, on which side, are more than obvious that unexplored cases of unexplored accumulations of capital concentrations have actually been led by people close to them if they are not active members or have been active members of the opposition. And if not the river: the crow does not turn off its eyes. Can we think of a political option that the president is praising today as an exclusive example of the concentration of capital as a successful enterprise as some kind of bright example? Can we imagine that this policy option will sanction such actions to prevent further abuses? Respectable. This government and this coalition are a guarantee that things get to the bottom and that they finally come to their place. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Your Honor, you had a chance to say, I've been trying to answer your questions, and now I'm asking you to leave me alone. [[...]] Of course, you have also sailed in your statements to the field of privatisation or to the field of withdrawal of the country from the economy. It was very interesting to listen to Mr Rope when he mentioned that this government had speedily privatised businesses, that in fact it had acted rashly, recklessly in this area. An analysis of the cases of divestment of state property in the Republic of Slovenia showed that only those procedures were carried out where we could follow the two key and most important objectives - maximising the purchase price and further development of the company. And it was also interesting to read the SD's position on the withdrawal of the country from the economy. The party says that it will only stay as a priority in infrastructure companies and sell the remaining shares. Respectable. So, this is a message that you will experience the sale of Krka, Gorenje and a number of similar quality companies that employ a lot of people. And believe me, there is just one competitor of these companies who can actually aim to take over and eventually destroy this company and take over its market. And if today one political option gives such signals to the economic profession or to businesses in the global market, this is the beginning of the end. The beginning of the end for these companies! Because, don't think that there's a whole bunch of thoughtful representatives of global corporations who are following these trends right, whether there's something to sell or not. And, of course, then the thing is done. This government has defined investments in the financial, insurance sector and in these companies as strategic investments that it will not sell. And neither were they and nor were there any proceedings in this regard. The withdrawal from the economy must be transparent, gradual and for the benefit of the developing company and the purchase used for further development or debt reduction in the country. So it is banal to listen on the one hand to the obvious what someone has done and, on the other hand, to offer a significantly more grave intervention into this same problem. I was also very pleased with Mr Rob's findings, which he said were profiting those who have a botar somewhere on top and someone who, as you would say, has an upgrade. And if we look at people who are in newspapers today with these controversial cases: Mr Šrot, a former member of the SD, whom the President likes to praise as a successful and developmental entrepreneur, as an example to others, Mr Igor Bavcar, Mr Bojan Petan - members of the LDS. Dear School, it will probably not be a problem to publish your truth in the Journal, given Mr Petan's political connections. By the way, Mr Petan has been president of LDS in Brežice for many years, so you probably have something to do with him to publish your lines of truth. So, I am sure that the moment has finally come in Slovenia when the supervisory institutions have also started their mission with an effective, impartial and legal work. Your Honor, I don't care who comes out of this swamp on the plan, but I know a lot of them have to swim. I am convinced, as I monitor the developments in the capital market, that there are one and the same actors in all stories. Slovenia is composed of ten players, if not less. And if the Securities Market Agency and the Competition Authority fail to fulfil their mission, there will be not more than ten players in the future, but five, and one in ten years. I therefore welcome the determination and activity of the institutions recently, and I believe that the cases will also be dealt with by a judicial epilogue. Of course, I would also like to express my modest expectation for the judiciary that these cases will be dealt with in the spirit and purpose of the legislation, without looking for a norm on how to make things obsolete, not to act, but to follow the essence. I am convinced that it is impossible in any legislation in the world to define all cases of taxidermy, what is right and where is right and what is wrong and where is wrong. If we follow the intensities of legislation, the sense of the norm, then there are more than enough reasons for action and more than enough arguments for a determined fight against deviations on the table. I would like to see the judiciary, which is an important element of the rule of law, dealing with it in a responsible, independent but effective manner. Today's session is aimed at one common message that such cases as those we have witnessed need to be closed, also because justice comes on a day and that this example is avoided for those who want it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr President has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. First of all, I'm sorry I didn't keep a close eye on these sessions. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But I followed her, as far as I could, through the transmission. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u243	We don't interrupt the speaker. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u244	And my coworkers just let me know. Besides, if I come, I can't talk. I don't know why you've been asking me all day. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]] I've watched the transmission a few times today, and it's always been said that there's no Prime Minister. Now the Prime Minister is here and everyone else would be talking. Today this is not the only job of the Prime Minister. The government has appointed two responsible ministers who have been accompanying the meeting, that is always the case. This is not a meeting that would require the continued presence of the President of the Government, especially at a time when many other things need to be dealt with. However, I will be happy to answer some questions, even though I have come to know the content. I see that some of these answers would not have been tolerated, apparently. And that's why I can be shorter. In addition to what the Minister added in this performance now and even earlier this day, there is not much to add, some things need to be underlined earlier. Here some who had been in power for 60 years spoke of how nothing had been done in three years, as well as some who had 12 years of authority had said the same thing. It is necessary to be a little moderate in these comparisons. Really. It is necessary to be modest and to see the state of this government in hand also in the area under consideration at this extraordinary meeting today. In 2005, when the government virtually took office, Slovenia did not have, for the most part, trained structures to combat economic crime and corruption of white collars. Economic crime and corruption of white collars were part of the system until 2005. And when we discussed these things four years ago, no one imagined that the situation was so difficult because we were watching it from the outside and we were misled by lack of information and also by misinformation. It took two years, sometimes more, to make organisational changes to train people, for some forms of crime people went to school for the first time only after the government's term of office. And not just in the police, but in some other structures that are equally important. Of course, it took at least some of the staff were refreshed. And that was the worst problem. On kilograms of magnetograms is from the debates in this hall where we were accused of personnel tsunami. Whoever was already replaced after the expiry of the mandate or was unable to repeat the mandate was accused by the government of doing a staff cleaning. Only if someone was replaced in the middle of the term, whatever the reason. Thousands, you swapped tens of thousands, we even listened. In 2005 and 2006, there was virtually no month and regular meeting of the National Assembly, so that I or my colleagues in the Government would not get the question of why we are doing staff exchanges. There were very few of them. Some measures were taken before this government, before the elections, some even after the election results were on the table, which made these changes significantly more difficult. Some of them were spoken of earlier by Comrade Visjak, and I will not repeat them. Some have not been mentioned and are worth mentioning. The legislation has been amended, which has made some kind of quasi-agency with some quasi-independent directors or presidents of these agencies. Since it has been written down in the law, it is still possible to replace it only if he resigns or becomes permanently incapacitated or is legally convicted of an offence for which he is in danger of being punished for more than five years. Many of these conditions were not fulfilled, and these people were untouchable, no matter how they worked. There was nowhere to be found where it would have been written that it could also be replaced because of a bad work or a bad deed. In particular, in some regulatory agencies, the government has encountered such a situation that either we should change the legislation, sometimes we have tried this, we have experienced the veto of the State Council, we have experienced a constitutional review. The law, with which at least part of us tried to relax these things, once fell in the Constitutional Court. We had to repeat the procedure, it's been a year, and only then could there be some procedures. But there was refreshments in the police, the D.A.'s office, in Durs. When new people came to their jobs, skeletons fell from the closets - 160 unsolved writings, partly outdated, and in smaller numbers also many on lower levels the same state. And, as Minister Visjak had previously said, many laws were such that they could be used or interpreted in one way or another. And it should be known that institutions that are of paramount importance for monitoring the use of public money, leading a successful fight against corruption and crime, which have simply remained the same as they are now in 2004. And whenever anyone tried to propose something to change, there was a big fire in the roof. And that also worked on the speed of some moves. One of these institutions, called the Anti-Corruption Commission, began when one of the institutions which has real power in their hands to fight these illegal phenomena began to attack this very institution. The anti-corruption commission began to deal intensively with the Slovenian police. Not in 2005, when there was not much going on, because people were trained and they were reorganised and staff replacements, not even in early 2006, when there was no activity, but at the end of 2006 and last year when serious activities began. At that time, this commission went to the police and had to deal with these attacks. And it is no coincidence that this same commission just today appeared in public with misleading information. The fact that this government, precisely because it would not have been someone to tell her that the Commission was afraid by accident, in the law which had regulated these matters, suggested that this commission should remain in the same composition until the end of the mandate, which is longer than the mandate of this government. So much so that this government tried to shut down this commission because they'd be afraid of it. When it comes to the worst cases of corruption or organised crime, the Commission generally had no idea. When it came to the road or road-building lobby, where most of these things were happening, there was the most public money stolen, during the Slovenian transition, because the biggest projects were being built there, this commission had no idea about these things. On the contrary, when it was seen that after a year and a half of intensive work, results were displayed, the police who carried it out were even more attacked. But key to the topic that we are talking about today are the supervisory authorities that are over the concentration of capital, which are above the competition on the market, which ensure that certain rules of the game are in place within the market economy, that this does not become a wild west, that smaller shareholders are protected, as has already been said, as well as consumers and taxpayers. Here we have encountered two structures at the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities, with two directors who were extended by the previous government just prior to the government's appearance. Although they have not done anything in previous mandates, their mandates have probably been extended because of this. We had no data, no cooperation, no results. It is not true that the processes that led to the concentration of capital and the self-concentration of capital in an illegal way, as well as the collection of that capital earlier, have not occurred. Of course it was happening. It is not true that this occurred during the time of this government's mandate. During the term of office of this government, it revealed that you know these things or that we even know these things. Only after the agency and the office began to operate did the parking lot reveal itself because we tightened the legislation, the penalties were imposed, and because these authorities went to the field, it is said, they began to deal with things, and in real time. So now to say that the person who discovered the matter is guilty of being there is a little too old a trick to be bought. And if you remember the noise that came about when the Director of the Securities Market Agency, Mr Borak, finally got a mandate. He wanted to repeat it in every way. Dozens of articles came out. All those who benefited from his work spoke of how good the staff was, that he must urgently repeat another term, the third or the fourth, and I do not know which one. And the anti-candidate who signed up for the invitation to tender tried to discredit them by all means. I received a letter from some very distinguished institutions stating that this candidate, whom the Government had chosen on the invitation to tender, had to be replaced because ten years ago he was about to commit an offence that he did not know about, nor was the procedure initiated. Then, when we examined the matter, it turned out to be completely absurd. But these were big headlines in the papers, and everything happened to stop it. This whole noise didn't come about because your organs wouldn't work. It came about because they're working because they're finally starting to work, and things have come out. However, because of the situation after our performance, I do not think it could have been explained earlier. Those who now tell us why the government has not previously replaced key people in these two organs, you have to ask yourself why you set them up, after they had not done well before, because obviously nothing has happened, they have parked around and, of course, there has been a concentration. At least two more things that the Government has done in this mandate, which are crucial, which are also correcting some of the statements that we have heard here before, must be added to those measures, which have been addressed by Comrade Minister Vizjak. We have promised at the beginning of this mandate and even earlier that in the supervisory councils where the Government has a majority share, we will also appoint representatives of the opposition in companies where the Government has a majority share or a state. And we kept that word. All the opposition parties in Parliament that existed at that time were invited to appoint representatives to these supervisory councils. And today you still have, although no one ever writes this down, you still have representatives in the supervisory boards in both the parastatal funds, in the Capital and Compensation Society, in Telekom, in the Electrical Economy and in the eight other largest state infrastructure companies. You have access to all the data, for every session, more than I or other members of the government or State secretaries. And that's the second step. This government, after seeing the situation, has limited membership in the supervisory councils in general. Previously, it was theoretically possible that one individual was in ten supervisory councils and 12 people surrounded and managed all key economic operators in the country. And then they even put them together just before the elections, in a political forum, most of the time, if they looked at how it was hidden and how it was still, in part, today, it was very interesting. In addition to legally restricting membership in the supervisory boards to a maximum of three, this government has also adopted a regulation on non-compatibilities of functions. Today you no longer have a minister or state secretaries who would be on the supervisory boards, not in companies where the state is the majority owner, where it might even be made available by some logic. As far as the largest government party is concerned, it has taken the same self-restraint measure and has separated its membership in the political bodies of the party by membership in the supervisory councils or boards of companies. And people had to give up their functions, or they could choose. With regard to the evidence, which has also been repeated many times today, despite the fact that the matter was officially explained how Mercator's sale took place at a meeting in the cabinet of the Prime Minister in August 2005, I will repeat for the last time that the government was neither directly owned nor had any direct connection with Mercator's shares, let alone to sell them. There is a credible document in connection with this meeting, which some of you have been so loud about. It was written and signed by the then State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, by hand. This is the only document that exists about this meeting. It follows from this content that there was no speech at this meeting, and the same person testified before an investigative committee in the National Assembly, under oath. If he may at any time speak to someone else at a restaurant, it is your decision or believe it now or believe it at that time. But it doesn't even matter. Absurden is this observation of how the government is to replace or sell shares in Mercator in order to control the media space or the newspaper Delo. If someone does not believe the documents and words of those who testified before the commission of inquiry, he probably believes at least what he sees. And if you look at the statistics that can be made for the newspapers Work or Evening or other newspapers in the domain of this conglomerate, then you will find no evidence that these media have been favored or favored by this government at any time during any period. Especially is it absurd to talk about this today, when you also have their own statistics before you, I think it has already been shown this morning, from which it appears that the work is a prominent counter-government newspaper. Based on statistics certainly not made by those who favor this government. For the first three months of this year, where Slovenia is also the EU Presidency and when the Prime Minister of this country is also the President of the European Council, half of which is analysed, the central Slovenian daily Work has not published a single positive word about the President of the European Council. However, he published 27 negative contributions. And right behind me is the Minister for Finance, who runs ECOFIN, one of the most important councils of the EU, and then Minister Podobnik and Victory Jelinčič. So much about how the government controls the work that the government controls the work and runs a highly anti-government editorial policy in this newspaper. Similar statistics apply to the Evening, other editions owned by this conglomerate and, of course, to the second pillar, to the other media tycoon pillar in this country, with the Diary, the Sunday Diary and others in the composition. In this country, there are two persons, two capital owners who had nothing in their hands 15 years ago, in their domain, in the management of a significantly higher market share than in any other European country. That's also evident now. When I talked about it six months ago and some schematics were shown, on this side of the hall there was a tinkling of, if, these are some domains, some schematics are drawn, where this is proven. Those who were on these schemes denied it. Six or seven months ago, you were denied that. Today they came from "post office collectors" because the regulators forced them to do so, and those who then wrote petitions against the pressure of politics and capital today know who their owner is and there is no petition. Even though they are now experiencing the same fate as it was written to us. He was just replaced today by a former editor at Del because he was identified as the wrong opposition party. The bosses want to support one, and he chose the other, not the government, but the opposition. And that's true, too, this research that only Work did. The party, which was not at all in the elections, is a party indeed, four years ago this party was not present, did not receive 0,00 votes in these elections, is more present in the central Slovenian newspaper than the party that won the elections. And now the Members of this party are asking which party is favored by this newspaper. Very interesting. Perhaps now it will be different because it is the owner of the orders, and this is said by a member of the Supervisory Board, but from now on it is necessary to take down Janša more intensively and support Pahor. This is now a policy for Work, for Dnevnik, for Slovenian News, where such exchanges have also occurred. And this is the Slovenian media scene. After seven months, since we discussed this topic, the table has been much cleaner in the sense that "post office mailboxes" have disappeared and actual owners have shown themselves. And now we are somewhere at a point where it would be good if those who create content within these ownership conglomerates, which informs hundreds of thousands of Slovenians every day, to consider whether they are actually independent. That, just as they resisted supposed pressure from the government, they also resist the pressure of capital. If anyone thought that any attempt was an attempt at any political option or government option to influence the media, the problem was his right. And he's had some experience ever since, on the basis of which he thought so. But when it comes to political options, elections are every four years, at least every four years. People can choose and change this option. The owners who have now come from the "post office mailboxes" will not be able to replace them in any elections. And they will, of course, act in accordance with this position. And that's what you'll know about wages, ratings and freedom of writing. And it's already been seen. The newspapers, owned by a tycoon conglomerate, wrote absolutely nothing about the dispute over the origin of this conglomerate, but they excused it. And the same thing happened in the second pillar. Everything else was controversial, everything else was on the floor. Procedures that allowed someone to own a majority stake in Dnevnik or in the Slovenian State Department to become one of Slovenia's greatest capitalists from a bold knowledge of change, that is not disputed, of course not. The one who'll write about it there will be at work. I doubt that's really in anybody's interest. Maybe someone wants to be unfree. This is probably also the case, but I doubt that this is the majority and that such a situation will be peacefully accepted in the Slovenian media space. It may be possible for some time to deceive people, journalists, editors in these houses, that the government is to blame for everything, that the government is to be pressured and so on. But I don't think that's gonna take long. But that may not even be the only very bad thing. Although the issue of democracy in the country is critical. And I fully agree with the proposers of this meeting, who have written a few sentences in this sense. Perhaps this is even underemphasized. From the perspective of the economy, in the interests of the consumer, taxpayers remain another issue and another threat. And one such announcement could be followed directly when we read price increases or competitiveness analyses on the Slovenian market, at a time when we were experiencing the first inflationary shocks. Newspaper owners, who also owned commercial shelves, raised prices through each rational parameter and accused the government of inflation because it worked for a while. Too much concentration, the concentration exceeding a certain level of market shares in the media area is all-round dangerous for society. And the emphasis in this paper, which is going in this direction, is absolutely, in my opinion, absolutely justified. If this remains or if this concentration even strengthens, this will have negative consequences for everyone, not only on the right to information and on media freedom. Even those who create these newspapers should have no illusions, but this will have negative consequences for each and every one of us. After all, it's a more expensive life. And we've already felt a part of it. Now that I am responding to some of the clues that have been given here earlier in the debate, I must say that the imagination of some has been boundless, but it is also important to note the danger of such doing that everything is thrown into the same basket. Even if it is illegal cases, with the same vats to deal with a billion euros of suspiciously acquired assets or a million euros, the difference is 1 to 1000. Well, that's not the main problem. The main problem is that when they started in the second part of this mandate, when the relevant conditions for this, the competent authorities acted, the whole economy suddenly began to be placed in the same basket. czesh, anyone who's an economist, is also a tycoon. Even I was aware that I had equalized it. There has never been such an equation, especially on the government side. And we have also made very clear what is what we believe is illegal and controversial in acquiring ownership. In the Slovenian economy, about 95% of the values created by small and medium-sized enterprises, companies you have never heard of, have never read in Del, Vecer, Dnevnik or in the Sunday Diary or have seen them on any television, because they are not the owners of these media, do not perform and because these media do not bring positive cases on the first page. But 25% of the value created in the Slovenian economy is a value created in a business that was created without tacunaisation, without disputed ownership, from craftsmanship, from good ideas, with loans, fair repayments, with various joint investments, with foreign investments, etc. And those people who have done this and are rich today are justly rich. This is the result of their work, their knowledge, their failure. And the more there are, the greater the national income, the greater the benefits we will all benefit from. This needs to be separated and the government is very clear on this. They don't separate those who try to hide behind these people. And then he tries to accuse the government of leading a policy in the Slovenian economy. Economists don't fall for this, they aim more at the public. It is said that those with a bad conscience and owned by the media and newspapers are trying to spread such a negative image to others and reduce their specific weight in this space. The Minister had previously described very well the changes to the legislation in which we were forced to disclose these things. And there's nothing to add to that. What may need to be somewhat simplified for human use on this basis is to explain that this confusion, which spreads mainly from this debate circle here on the left, will have no effect in the public, but of course the old truth, which says that it is always possible to get to the right causes if you follow the money. Here too, it is easy to judge money. Who has benefited from what, who is on the list of these richest Slovenians and who has come to this property in a transparent way, such as Akrapovič, Boskarol and many other Slovenian entrepreneurs who have started with nothing and created much, and who has come to the company or state company with the briefcase, today owns the billionth share of this company. It's possible to separate at first sight. So it follows money, not a newspaper article, because newspaper articles are paid with this controversial money. Mostly in Slovenia, unfortunately. But since these shares always leave a trail, it is practically possible to be completely calm. In the years to come, they'll come from "postboxes" even those who may not yet be. You will see who is behind a columnel and a variety of other names that may not even be known today. And if the institutions of the rule of law move in the same direction as they do today, the negative effects of such illegal concentration will be avoided. The conclusions you have proposed go mainly this way. And don't think there's no time for that to happen. The one who says he's out of time says he's counting on it to change power and then he won't do it. It's the only explanation for such a rumor, and you need to know how to read it. I've been here for an hour and a half, and I've heard this talk from the opposition twice. You're proposing something that's out of time anyway. This means that if the opposition wins the elections, they will not continue fighting crime and corruption if there is no time. I think he's available all the time. He's absolutely available all the time. And if I slowly finish this contribution now, I would end it with just that. I think that in this debate, which was different, and this is normal for each Parliament and it is not surprising that the coalition party has proposed this extraordinary meeting. Surprisingly, if the situation is really as bad as the Member of the Social Democrats had previously said that the opposition did not propose such a meeting within four years, but that it would stop this drift from falling apart. You have every possibility. During the previous term of office, the opposition did not have enough votes for an extraordinary session and it was always necessary to work hard. In this mandate, the opposition has sufficient votes for an extraordinary session; if that is the case, they should have called it a long time ago. However, it seems to me that this debate, however contradictory, was, however there were also very different views on the causes and consequences, as well as the blurring of the causes and consequences, but with the exception of two, three attempts in a series of performances there was no open defence of this work. Four years ago, it was different. That's when we heard from those who were in opposition today and then played a different role, an assessment of how we're overreacting that these phenomena aren't that I'm making up. Now there is no longer this denial, and attempts at relativisation have been very few. Indirect defenses are just one thing. I'm engaged. Which, of course, means that there is no parliamentary political party in the National Assembly to defend illegal activity. This is a strong message, not so much for the Slovenian public, but for those bodies that have to do their legitimate work and who have been under a lot of pressure, whispers, hints and media pressure in recent weeks - direct calls through newspapers, not to go through a variety of "clean shovels" because this government is going to go anyway and then another government will come and there will be nothing. People who are directly involved in investigations have been approached by various lawyers and have been so friendly that they should not get overheated, for these few months will pass, and then this will be different. The message of this extraordinary session is going in a different direction today. I think it will be quite understandable and, therefore, I think this meeting has been useful. Maybe someone was talking to a fig in their pocket, but that wasn't seen. The message went in the right direction and those who now own 85% of the printed media space can pick up another 15%, and we'll be on the same page as in 1998, when someone had 100% in their hands, but it didn't help. Slovenia has established, including with severe pain, structures capable of combating these negative phenomena. For the first time since this country exists, also against the crime of white collars and corruption of a greater scale. And this is a process that I think is irreversible. If someone is counting on the story to end in three months, I think they're running an account without a tavern, and especially without the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenians who are at a disadvantage because of these concentrations, because of these monopolies and because someone can put a billion euros in a briefcase in five or ten years. This is not possible anywhere and even in Slovenia this will not happen unpunished.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr Lakhovnik, I must apologize to you, Mr Plevelje warned me that you had raised your hand before Mr President got the floor. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr President, I appreciate that you have taken account of the fact that this has actually been the case. I did not want to prevent, as it was obviously understood, that the President of the Government would speak or anyone else, because I respect that he did come between us, even after 18 hours and when our time for discussion was up. But that is why I wanted to propose to you, in accordance with Article 67, paragraph 6, as President, that the time for consideration of points or debate should be extended, but not for more than an hour. The National Assembly may, on a proposal from the Chair, so decide. If I can only give you a moment's justification. In fact, as I said, I think it is good that the President of the Government came, even though after 18 hours of discussion, but we are now in a situation where we have heard a lot of things, and we do not have the power to replicate or question anything else. And I know that it may seem to many that this was a procedurally brilliant exercise and that you may have brought us thirsty across the water, if we say so, but it is not good, because I actually think that here today we should be so united and realize that the conclusions we have at the end are such that, as the Prime Minister himself said, we should all support them. But before that, it would be right to allow democratic right for all to speak in the National Assembly. Given that we have run out of time, that the President of the Government has arrived after the time has passed, it would be right for you, as President, to take advantage of the business opportunity you have and put this proposal to the vote. I think that's right. And if what the President of the Government has said is true, then I believe you will also support it in the coalition. But if the whole point of this today was to talk about this issue when we can no longer talk about, when we can no longer discuss and explain certain things, even some of the non-truths that have been said in our opinion, I have learned today, for example, for the first time here that the customer has really had an impact on the work until yesterday, that I have not learned so far and I would be interested in anything else in this. If I'd known that, I'd have written a lot of things in there, and apparently I'm the only one who didn't know we had an influence. The whole kind of thing was that I think it would be right to clear them up. We're not afraid of that. I have no burden, no liability for returning mortgages, so I would be afraid to clear up my past if necessary. Even what the Minister of Economy said. But I believe we all have a genuine interest here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u247	Mr. Lakhovnik, it's been three minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u248	to settle matters and therefore please, Mr President, in accordance with the sixth paragraph of the National Assembly, you suggest that the time for consideration of the item or for discussion be extended, but no longer than I have said, by one hour, because I know it is late and I do not want to tire out the President of the Government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u249	I will do more because the proposal needs to be more precise in order to share the time if the proposal is to be adopted. [[...]] I suggest that anyone who applies to the debate when I make an application shall be given five minutes to the Member of Parliament. That would be a procedural proposal. Allow [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Bajc, you did not formulate as a procedural proposal. [[...]] I have one problem: LDS predicted the absence and Lipa. They can't get involved in the sequel. You heard the procedural proposal. Mr. Skull, I can't give you my word because you've left. And I also ask Members and Members whether we allow them to come back and participate in this point, or whether anyone opposes it. Mr. Tanko, please. I want an opinion on this. If no one objects, then we'll let them. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I think it is a bit embarrassing that Mr Lahovnik, who, according to the parliamentary position that he has been missing all afternoon, is now demanding an extra hour to discuss. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u251	Good. You have heard a procedural proposal, five minutes from the Member of Parliament. This is a procedural proposal on which we will vote. Check your voting devices or operate. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. However, the debate is still on the table and we have Mr Grimes on our list as a proposaler. Here you go. You have the floor. Mr Grimes, this is a debate and you can speak from the seat, not from behind the pay phone. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Well, respectable colleagues, please! Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u252	So, because I know, Mr President, it doesn't really matter. I was counting on you to do this behind that counter, but I respect your opinion. However, I do not respect the mathematics that was just before, because if all 90 Members of Parliament had applied after five minutes, as proposed, it would have been 450 minutes or the debate would have lasted like this, for another six and a half hours if we were mathematically precise or correcting, for more than seven hours. As far as this is concerned, I suggest that these late hours do not work in such a way that we all make mistakes. What I wanted to stress for the end is this. When we proposed this meeting, we wanted to take advantage of, on the one hand, the opportunity, as well as what in fact stems from the Slovenian Constitution as a duty to obtain relevant information in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the relations that apply between the various branches of government under the Slovenian Constitution. We have therefore drawn up the relevant conclusions and contributed the material. Perhaps even more important was that, as the National Assembly, as the legislator, we should give a clear and unequivocal message to the public as well as to the various national institutions, as well as to the legislative branches of government and the judiciary, that there is no taboo anymore. That no one is untouchable, no matter what political background he has or how much money he has, either on a bank account or on some "cagec firm". And in doing so, we also based on the principle that the responsibility before the law must be equal for all. We have placed this in the very starting point that some in the opposition in this Chamber have deliberately questioned. This is, however, the starting point of responsibility, which we have specifically defined as responsibility for each decision we voted for in this Chamber, for each definition before the public and the institutions, obviously puts some in a lot of panic in this country. How else can it be understood that for the first time, the Forum 21 has come up with a direct question about whom we understand under the terms of round around Forum 21 and at the same time the statement of the summit itself that we are abusing the parliamentary function? Let me add that, a little earlier, Member of the Council, Mr Školč has welcomed the President of the Government and the President of the Council of the EU's Bolshevism. This is a serious accusation in Europe. All three of them are based on this great nervousness. Let me explain this. Look, if we're talking about the round around Forum 21 I would remind you that when the first line of Forum was set up, it was full of all the big names, from Mr Turnsko onward, which was also touched by this debate, but I didn't have that in mind when I was talking about the circle around. When these people met at a large meeting at one of the Ljubljana hotels at a congress, as we could read in the media, Mr Rop and Mr Pahor joined them through the side door. Let me add to this the words of Mr Borut Pahor, President of SD, when he spoke of Mr Bosk Šrot: "I am pleased and proud to have a director or CEO of such a successful company in our membership. But he will tell himself, and I can confirm that because of his basic obligations, he is not a very influential party member. He said he wanted it to be more." Interesting. This becomes even more interesting in the light of the words of Stanislav Kovač: "Shrot became a billionaire with a red ledger in his pocket because he was a member of the Pahorje SD throughout the transition, who, as heir to the Communist Party through the transition, called for a bitter battle against social disintegration". And Pahor, at the end of last year in the media, vehemently admitted that he kept in touch with Shrot as a member of the party all the time. In addition, from now on, the official former editor-in-chief of Del, this same Boško Šrot recently specifically requested that an absolute advantage be given, which is clearly inconsistent with the basic principles of journalistic ethics and professionalism, the Pahorje SD in his newspapers, and that the government of Janez Janša be overthrown. It is said that all that theater was about a break-up or a temporary break-up of contacts, as was the case with some events, was a pure theatre for the public, to which we then warned the public. On the other hand, the President of the Forum 21 is practically present at all the public performances that he performed by Mr Gregor Golobič, and is also known. And if we put it all together, will anyone find me a nicer look than a circle around Forum 21. And if you step on a cat's tail, it blossoms, it's old wisdom that's always proven justified. But let me add to that what I said at the beginning. In those days, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the fourth arrest. It was indeed tried by the Yugoslav People's Army, but was imprisoned by the then Slovenian authorities. And it's the same people, even the same words. Four of them were referring to the evidence that they abused their freedom to abuse their function. The same words we're witnessing today. And they didn't just do it to connect it with someone I specifically quoted earlier. Indeed, at that time they also sent, as we could read in the media, a well-known member of the Central Committee, to mediate that Mr Jožef Školč, and not Mr Janez Janša, who had previously been registered as a candidate, was elected as head of the LDS. Let me leave the judgment to you, whether they have sent him to prison for this purpose, for the Slovenian authorities have sent him. But, sir. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Sir, who, obviously, justified his political career to Mr Školč on this, on parasitism, on the suffering of someone who had to go to prison and on the suffering of his loved ones, and that this man took the right to the one who had to go to prison, then to the one who had to go to prison, to a better vision. [[...]] This indeed goes beyond all the boundaries, including those of political non-culture that we have witnessed by the opposition all these days. For we have experienced a great deal of personal disqualifications, personal insults, insults to our fellowmen and the like, I must say, during all this time of my term in Parliament I have not yet experienced. What was hiding behind this aggression? The answer is so simple. Obvious bad conscience and lack of arguments. And the bad news, colleagues and colleagues, from SD, LDS and you really proved it is a very bad thing. When we talk about the stories we have witnessed during this period, of course we cannot pass the concentration of capital. These concentrations of capital represent not only a problematic act but also a direct loss. Do you know that if you recalculate the difference in shares which, according to a statement by the former Director of Union, was not removed because someone exceeded the authority, someone else, the current SD Member, made this obvious objectively possible by shutting down the safeguard mechanisms and the then government did not act and knows exactly why. Then they got rid of him, yeah, like a scapegoat. But why didn't anyone at least try to challenge these acts by legal procedure? But we didn't get that answer today, even though the key players of that story were here, even what kind of minister of the then government was again in the SD. For this reason, this whole story is even more interesting, because it is calculated to lose 3,000 billion tolls of tax money if you calculate it, according to the difference in the price of shares, from 90 to 119 thousand. Well, as much has also been said about the lack of new documents, let me point out that we have presented in this at least two documents which the public had the right to see for the first time. An opportunity. One shows how it has been done before, one shows how it has been done now. One allowed intervention in the Delo newspaper house, the concentration of capital, the other undoubtedly defined the policy of this coalition and the government, and defined it as an unacceptable act. This very clearly testifies to who is who. And even more clearly, there is the perversion. Also, by the way, this chatter of all colleagues in this room is very clear about who is who. Let me just present this argument, and I will conclude with this, colleagues and colleagues. This document is signed by the party, and I quote them to you, Mr Milan Cvikel, Mr Matthew Lakhovnik and Mr Tonet Rope. Mr. Lakhovnik has his signature here. He was in the debate today and yesterday on television publicly, dead cold, when I quoted him with an accurate explanation from this text, he said it was a simple lie. This shows the level of political non-culture that is present in this debate, which is a reflection of that panic, because you have no argument, then it is simply suggested to the interlocutor that he is a liar, that he is a storyteller, that I do not know what else I have listened to these days. Whose signature is this, Mr. Lakhovnik, will you come here and take a look? So much for that. And why did it go? It was only that statement, which was very clear where these procedures were crucial when I spoke about the pidis, when I presented that in February 2004, almost a year before the current government's appearance, had already been concentrated so that 23 shareholders had virtually all the assets, over 40 billion in pidis, of all 260,000 shareholders, who had invested money in good faith, and then had only 0.4 billion tolars left in their hands, that is to say nothing more than nothing, 1,600 tolls per person was calculated. And to the end. Because someone has made a strong statement about how in America they respect those who get property, and we do it with them, so let me read only from the newspaper Finance a very simple fact: "High prison sentences for those responsible in the infamous affairs of Worldcom, Enron, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They lie to the claims of the influential Slovenian economist Kralj that the Americans only admire their millionaires, but they do not persecute when they do something contrary to the law." [[...]] Therefore, at this point in time it is possible to determine, on the one hand, what information we want by means of a decision. The conclusions here are very good, and among them I also highlight those relating to the media field. Today, just when the responsible editor in Del has been relieved, when he comes to the unitary administration at Del and at Dinner, which has so far been in some way a defender of professionalism in the field of printed media, this warning is that this conclusion of the National Assembly is so much more important, so symbolic and, on the other hand, that by adopting decisions, we give a clear signal that we are all equal before the law, that everyone is subject to law, and that anyone who violates the law should also be accountable before the law. And once again, whether it's yours, ours or theirs, whatever color it is, and how much money it has on either the bank account or the "kaselc" company. Only this is compatible with the principles of the rule of law and we stand firm in the SDS and we will insist on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u253	Thank you. This concludes the general debate and brings us to a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled to the supplementary proposal for conclusions. However, since there is virtually no time for discussion, we will go straight to the vote. We will first vote on the amendment to the 11th decision. Use the overview of the amendments you received today. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I only see one hand, two hands. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed amendment to the 11th decision proposes to add a new third paragraph, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the elections won in democracy do not give any majority and its government the right to usurpation of power and so on." What we have witnessed today by the House of State in the evening means usurpation of power, not only in our firm belief, but also in the conviction of the Group of Members, the abuse of power, of all three branches of government, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia dictates the content of the proposed basic decisions which say that the National Assembly [[And, if possible, I would ask that present Members listen to the paradox]] predicts to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia what it should do, while it has a judicial branch of power or its intervention. In other words, in the context of the Lipa Group, we are predicting, of course, support for this proposal for a decision or amendment to the 11th Decision. Ladies and gentlemen. What we have witnessed during the hearing at the working body and today's plenary session of the extraordinary session would, at least in our firm belief, constitute at least an approximation to the so-called division of power within our country. Therefore, not only to ensure division, as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has said, but at least to bring it closer, let it be to the paradox arising from the current branch of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, on behalf of the messenger.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u256	I'm quitting because the point has already been summed up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u257	Anyone in their own name? I'm opening the application. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. So, the 11th proposal for a decision is a decision of a nature which I believe is difficult to support in the party. For this reason, they have also tabled an additional amendment that seeks to eliminate the contents of the 11th Decision in some way. However, the substance of the 11th decision suggests that all those who have acquired ownership or co-ownership of companies in such a way that they have taken credit in banks and secured these loans with shares of companies they have purchased that such transactions are invalid. So in Novi Slovenija we have deliberately proposed such a formulation of the decision, and it is a great task for us to put this matter into practice by adopting such a decision. We are convinced that if it is a public interest to put these matters in their original state before the concentration of capital occurred in a way that we have been talking about all day that such a decision is absolutely necessary, and the amendment, as proposed by the Zares Group, is in fact only in this direction that the contents of the 11th decision are changed or the content of the clear decision to some extent confused. That is why I will not vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I would like to say on my behalf in the proposed conclusions that I have been very attentive to the opinions given by the Legislative and Legal Service. While this opinion is very carefully drafted, the Law and Law Service is also linked to the amendment to this article and is afraid that, due to the usurpation of power, someone would lose their job. However, she warned that the conclusions were formulated in many ways by going beyond the relationship between the individual branches of government, sometimes requiring the Government to determine responsibility where it is not competent, even Minister Vizjak would be able to say so. Even, yeah, because he talked about it before. In fact, I think that the conclusions that have concrete content are worth considering. Of these, I think there's two of them. One is the one who envisions the establishment of the financial police and I will also support it because the financial police were also promoted at our client meeting two months ago and included in the draft government programme. And the second is about the 11th point. I fully agree with the amendment, because it is certainly indisputable that by all lines, and also today's debate is evidence, including the actions of the President of the Government is evidence - two hours, to allow you to come to the end and explain what the truth is, but you are not prepared to discuss, to politicise. This is indeed the usurpation of power and the humiliation of the National Assembly. However, I must say that I myself am prepared to accept the text of the 11th point with only one addition - I would like the Legislative and Legal Service to say whether it is possible to take such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u261	Thank you. Anyone else? I can only see one hand. Mr. Laharnik in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u262	Your Honor! I wouldn't have called if there wasn't an additional explanation. I know it's a late hour, but what's been said before is not an earlier direct one, but rather, you're saying that when we propose the third paragraph, we should try to change the content of the article, and it's a fat lie. And those called the Christian People’s Party could observe at least the seventh commandment of God, but apparently nothing is sacred to them. That's why I'm going to explain my voice now. The essence of the 11th decision is completely "benevolent" and should be supported, I believe, by any party who believes in democracy, freedom of the media and, above all, the self-restraint policy of the parties in power. In nothing interferes with the 11th decision and I also join in the expression of the vote what the predecessor, Mr Potrč, has said to support the 11th decision, but we are really interested here in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. No one on the Committee on the Economy objected to this decision, but there was a broad debate on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was a warning and was, above all, in the direction that the matter could also be constitutionally disputed. Therefore, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service would be useful here, but otherwise we do not have the content and I do not have any problem with the reservation referred to by the predecessor, Comrade Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I have to say for myself that I will not support this amendment. I will not support him now at all when I have heard what I have heard before me about Christian principles and the seventh commandment of God. Yes, that is why we have proposed the 11th decision. The seventh commandment of God says not to steal, no, not lie. I guess that's what my colleague Lahovnik meant, and that's why. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] and that is why we have proposed 11 conclusions that say how all these irregularities should be brought to the bottom. [[...]] And we will support the 11th conclusion, but we certainly do not see any need to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u265	Even in my own name. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will support the amendment, as proposed by my colleagues in the Zares Group. I don't see anything wrong with him. If you read it carefully, you will see that it is essentially a general decision that cannot harm this country and not this National Assembly. As for any commandment, do not steal, do not judge men by yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. If I may continue, look, corruption and clientism in all the normal countries are driving governments and not the opposition down. That's why your entire session has already been set up wrong and upside down. And such a decision, as suggested by colleagues, cannot harm you, nor can it harm you. Therefore, I see no reason not to support it, unless you are afraid of anything, the concentration of any capital, even the media, as one of SDS's "voicemakers" had the joy of discussing in the end today the independence of the media, the concentration of capital in the media. It's a Slovenian week. But whose concentration of capital is there, because in this week we see only addresses, I'll say, someone from the opposition is doing this, someone from the opposition is doing this damage, someone from the opposition has a mistress, and Minister Bajuk is lowering taxes. Is this an independent medium? Please. Even in crosswords, in this medium, you are the coalition MPs themselves, or at least Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u267	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Dear President, Mr. Tuckyat! I would suggest that we repeat this vote. I would like to reflect on the words of this appendix to the 11th decision, which are not ours, but are the words spoken in April 2003 and written by Mr Janez Janša in the citizens' initiative "Something has to be done". He handed them over to Mr Rope, then President of the Government, and thought that something needed to be changed in order to finally bring democracy to life in Slovenia. And he did say that it is necessary that the elections won in democracy by no majority and its government give no right to usurp the power of taxpayer money and the media public. Yes, and Barbara Brezigar handed it over to Mr Rob at the time. The National Assembly therefore reminds the Government of its duty to allow pluralism of opinion, criticism and control of power, as it is obliged to prevent political and other monopolies in any field. This is what Janša wrote on April 23, 2003. You have now rejected his words. Perhaps once again, after a brief second thought, perhaps you should give this opportunity to follow your words, once spoken by Mr Janez Janša, with whom we absolutely agree. The problem is that he swallowed those words from 2003 to 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u269	Mrs Shirca, why didn't you use this correctly, let's say in explaining your vote to the next amendment, not just like that. This is how a procedural proposal is made for us to vote again. So we move on to the 12th decision, to the first amendment, the amendment under number one. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I see one hand. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u270	The amendment under order number 1, which, according to my assessment or my practice of chairing the meeting of the National Assembly, would make sense for the chairman to also state who is the author of this amendment. Finally, it is also stated in the script, and this has been the case for the past three and a half years. Suddenly today's session no longer bears the authorship of the proposed amendments, but it is probably in line with the government's electoral campaign, which is also subject to, unfortunately, the National Assembly. What we are following in the context of the Lipa Group of Members. In the context of the Lip Group, we are pursuing that objective which would realize your concern for all the proposed twelve basic conclusions. If, on the proposed basic 12 decisions, honourable Members and Members present, you request the recall of institutions such as the ATVP, the Office of Competition, if you request the recall of banks, if you request the recall of law enforcement authorities, if you request the recall of the tax authorities, the past years, and if you request, in the framework of your basic 12 decisions, the recall of the judicial and investigative authorities, then of course, it would be reasonable that, in terms of maintaining the dignity, principles of the National Assembly, we also require the prohibition of the further sale of State property until the National Council receives a clear answer to the three basic questions: why sell to, sell to whom and at what price to sell. Ladies and gentlemen, 22 times in the period 2005, 2006, 2007 and also 2008 you had to discuss such matters on the proposal of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. You have repeatedly denied this possibility and prevented the debate. Therefore, if you are following the objective that you have pointed out to him your content of the debate over the past ten hours and a few hours, then this is the conclusion that allows us to say so, and from now on we are going to play a new game. For if you speak and say, we will look at things again, we will call back all these institutions, you know that there is no legal basis, you know that there is no constitutional basis and there is no political will to end at the time of the autumn national elections. I propose that the amendment under number 1 to the 12th Decision, proposed by the Lipa Group of Members, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u271	Thank you. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 39. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under number 2 to the 12th decision. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that. According to my assessment of the second amendment to the 12th decision, as well as the fourth amendment to the 12th decision, proposed for the first time by the Zares Group and for the second time by the Lip Group, it also follows the content that you have expressed at a declaration level only because of microphones by all the Members present and Members of the National Assembly. Therefore, control over the institutions that enable us to enter or output the financial means by which such financial transactions have been made possible. During today's debate, we have found that only in relation to current management acquisitions for which Mr Vizjak or not, the President of the Government and also the Minister of Finance say that they are contrary to the law, which should be determined by the Securities Market Agency and the Office of Competition Protection, to prevent both the New Bank of Maribor and the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. With the introduction of the Institute, as the Financial Police have called it, such matters would have reached the bottom of the day, but it has clearly meant more to the Members and Members present and more to the objective of the so-called ineffective debate within the National Assembly than to follow the content of the said words. I believe that a large number of MEPs are at this point in their lives and do not understand the earlier words and the proposed decision, at least the second consecutive one in the 12th decision or amendment to the 12th conclusion, to pursue the objective of the so-called Financial Police, which has proved to be positive in the pursuit of so-called grey financial flows from one company to another in a number of European countries. This is so much more topical in Slovenia, because we still have legal and "forced" capital parking spaces in the form of Soda and Kada, which are again and again being protected on one side by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and swords by the ruling Members of the National Assembly. From this title, we will support the amendment under order number 2 to decision 12 in the context of the Parliamentary Group of Lip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u273	Thank you. Procedural proposal, please, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u274	Mr President, I believe that, among other things, the third and fourth decisions to this point are the farthest and I would suggest that we vote on it first, because it requires the establishment or immediate proceedings does not raise questions and the other two decisions are questioned and demand that the establishment of the financial police be examined. For I do not trust the Government to establish it and not to study it, but to conclude that it must approach it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u275	So, I have not yet read the amendment's amendment under number 2, which reads: "If this amendment is accepted, it becomes an amendment under number 3 and 4 irrelevant. [[...]] You're suggesting we start with the fourth?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u276	First, the amendment under number 4 would be voted under two and then under three, because I think it's under four farthest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u277	But they're all mutually exclusive. Good. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u278	Although I respect what Comrade Potsch said, all conclusions are not the same. Indeed, this proposal, when we are talking about the establishment of the financial police, is also explicit about what it is called and what we say, respected Mr Potrč, if we read that the chairman would be appointed by the Government in agreement with the Commission of the National Assembly for the Supervision of Public Finance, this seems essential to us. There's no such thing in the rest of the conclusions. If there is a willingness, we are to form together as the National Assembly, if you want, an initiative to change this into a requirement, but this last part is crucial. We simply believe that the financial police, who would be solely under the executive branch of power and would not have a legislative branch of authority, because they have in the body where the opposition has the majority, whichever is left or right. In short, if this legislative branch had no role to play, it might be ambiguous. And that's why that last part is very important to us. In particular, we expect, and I believe, in the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, that there will be an immediate establishment, even because Mr Tanko is nodding, so I propose that we go our separate ways.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u279	There is certainly no significant difference and we will stick to the examination as you got it on the table. That's what it says. Now we're going to vote on amendment number two. Anyone else want to explain on their own behalf? Mr. Lakhovnik, or in his own name? On behalf of the MP? It used to be procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u280	Thank you very much. The decision we have proposed in the Zares Group is based on the sub-menu that the establishment of the financial police is necessary, and we believe that we should integrate into the parts of the criminal police for economic crime, the inspection part of the Tax and Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and provide them with investigative powers to detect crimes in their area. The independence and autonomy of this body are essential in this regard, and it is therefore crucial that the President be appointed by the Government in agreement with the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Because every time the opposition, as we know, has a majority under the new Rules of Procedure. And it is in some ways also a wedding, that regardless of what you want, what will happen in the fall, the left or right option, that we will get a truly independent institution, a financial police, which will be a credible body, even from this point of view, that there will be no political influence in this body. We believe, as I said, that we need such an institution. In particular, I would point out that, of course, it would have to be institutionalised in the composition of the Ministry of Finance, with financial police members, of course, having police powers specific to criminals upgraded by the powers of the inspectors of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the authorised persons of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter already operate within the Ministry of Finance. However, we believe that these institutions need to be linked in order for the Authority to function effectively. We also now see that, in fact, it is not an appropriate institution to effectively identify assets on one side and, on the other hand, cash flows. So, as this asset was, the financial assets were actually created. And if we actually integrated here, as we suggest, tax institutions, customs administrations and, of course, institutions dealing with economic crime could do so effectively. In view of today's debate, too, we expect the decision to be supported. We are pleased that the rest of the parliamentary groups expressed their support for this in the debate. And if so, then the outcome of today's session will also be that we will come up with a constructive proposal and that the result will not only be that we have been accusing each other here all day, who is responsible for something, but we will also actually create some added value if you want, a step forward in the fight against corruption and customerism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u281	Thank you. In your own name, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I'm not going to say that I'm substantively confused by the explanation of the voice of my colleague Lakhovnik. However, I would like to point out that in part, at least in my decision, I cannot agree with his, i.e. the author's explanation. In my firm belief, the provision of financial police is, of course, the basis of a special act which our country would have to adopt under order number two, three or four if any amendments were to be adopted. The specification and definition of the procedures themselves in the framework of the proposed conclusions, as we have today, but we must be aware that it will not be sufficient to lay the foundations. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that, just now, my fellow Member, Zagorac, has also stressed that it would be possible to take a 45-minute break before this amendment, in connection with the clarification of the theory just highlighted by my colleague Lahovnik. On the other hand, I expect, of course, that in the case of the non-voting of the amendment under order number 2, at least the amendment under order number 3 and 4 will be adopted, in this case of course we will not take the said pause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u283	We're voting. Excuse me, abort. Mr Kokalj also asked for an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u284	Yeah, I'm sorry. I haven't spoken so much today that someone doesn't get too angry. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Excuse me? [[...]] Can I? Gentlemen, ladies, ladies, may I? Better not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u285	All right, Mr. Bones, please, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u286	But I'll do it anyway. [[...]] Yes, in my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u287	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u288	That's all I'd like to say is that I think it's completely irrelevant what's written in these conclusions that we're taking today. I do not think that any of these conclusions that are proposed summarise what the actual debate in the National Assembly should produce. We're a legislative body, we're enacting legislation, we're overseeing the government's work. These conclusions should clearly state what the Government has not done in particular, what it must do differently, which law and how we will change and where it is lacking. So please, this is my appeal, in my opinion, even on behalf of some citizen, that we do not take too much time with these formulations, because we all know that therefore there will be no significant difference in this problem. And here, in a way, I think we're destabilizing the role of the National Assembly. Let us adopt a law that will fix the situation or resolve a minister who is not doing well if it is the minister’s fault. However, we cannot control the judiciary, which is a problem that I see and is difficult to control or that the judiciary actually judges in accordance with the legislation we are adopting. Thank you very much. I'm not gonna talk anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u289	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 37. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the amendment under number 3 to the 12th Decision. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 4 will become irrelevant. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u290	Thank you very much. In view of the content of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the amendment under order number 4 be considered before amendment number 3. The first argument. Second argument. If we look at the time frame for each amendment, we see that the amendment under order number 4 has been tabled before the amendment under order number 3. Also, if we look at the content of the two amendments, which differ in the content of one word, I can find that the amendment under order number 4 has been signed by the Sectional Services of the National Assembly, whose authorship we know, says that the procedure for setting up the financial police is immediately beginning. The amendment under order number 3, proposed by the ruling parties, suggests that the possibility be examined. Therefore, from this heading of withdrawal, the National Assembly should respect its rules of play and the rules of the game which apply under the legislative procedure. This is my procedural proposal, Mr President of the National Assembly, to first vote on the amendment under order number 4, current number 4, and then to the amendment proposed by the coalitions or I apologize to the SDS, NSI, SLS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u291	Well, this proposal has already been, and since it is not as essential, in what order do we vote on these two amendments, I have already decided to stick to the review of the amendments as they were placed on the table. However, we can turn your initiative into a procedural proposal and therefore put to the vote whether we are voting first on the fourth amendment. We are voting on the procedural proposal, but first we are voting on the fourth amendment. There are 53 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 9. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. Therefore, we will first vote on the fourth amendment or amendment under number 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, please, Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I really don't want to delay the meetings of the National Assembly. I believe that is how you feel about all the Members and Members present. I would like to draw further attention to the fact that, in the context of the proposed amendments to the proposed decision or decision taken on the home working body, we are following, for the first time, transparency, secondly, the so-called credibility of all partners in the process, i.e. the partner in the process by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, potential takers, and thirdly, the current economic decision-makers within our country. From this title we propose to add a second paragraph to the first paragraph, which reads as follows: 'The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia', of course, because the separation of the branch of power in the constitution is recorded to the extent that we cannot direct it, we can only propose, but such co-formulated decisions as proposed by the coalition in the National Assembly, the content 'that it immediately begins with the procedure for the establishment of the financial police'. In my firm belief, such a proposed and adopted decision, which we had previously proposed, would prevent a hero of the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who would point to the activity of the WD-40, from being re-established in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u293	Thank you. An explanation on my own behalf, Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this amendment is quite a nice one, because I understood that somehow we all tend to support the establishment of financial police in Slovenia, but this amendment is unacceptable to me, because it is not possible to start the process of establishing financial police immediately, because there is no legal basis for this. There is no financial police in our legislation and it is therefore impossible to start procedures for the establishment of the financial police without delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given that initiatives are coming to establish the financial police around and around, and all of you are ascribed to authorship more or less, I would like to stress that I will support this amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. I think that this amendment is the one that is most "exact", and who also says or suggests to the Government that it should immediately begin the process of drafting legislation to create the conditions for the establishment of the financial police. That's the way it is. And I believe they'd be happy to support the coalition. However, there is a significant difference between the amendment under number three and the amendment proposed by the Government or the government coalition. You're suggesting we explore options. The study of the possibility in this government coalition may take up to the election. No, you need to study your options immediately. I mean, it's like I would. Either I do or I don't. But all for being established, so you will be happy to support our amendment and finally in Slovenia we will get one organ that will be able, I will say, to oversee corruption, customerism, you, us, them, anyone you mention. Of course, I also call on colleagues from the Social Democrats to support this amendment, now that you have received this explanation. I think she was clear enough and "exact enough." [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So I think the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be ahead of this task so that it can set up a financial police force. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u297	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u298	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The possibility of establishing a financial police, as far as I know, has already been examined within the mandate of the previous government. Therefore, for those who do not know the results of this study, see what are the results of these analyses that have been carried out. I even know the person who today is part of this government coalition, who has been ordered in the past to draft a law, a law establishing a financial police. So, don't talk about the need to study the possibilities today, whether in our legal system we can adopt, draft the law and set up the financial police. The results have been made, even the drafts of the law have already been prepared. But this government came into power, and the law that was prepared in the draft was rumbled into the drawer and remained locked there. So I say, let's support this amendment, and let's show everyone together, or let those who say there are many in their pants, how many are actually in their pants, how many are there to take a step forward against corruption if you want. We've heard it's going to be different from today. This is what some government Members say. If that is true, then support the amendment we are voting on today. I say, the analysis was done, and the marriage drafts are already in, and I'm afraid in government drawers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u299	Thank you. This amendment also applies, if adopted, then the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 32. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 3 to the 12th decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded by voting on the amendments and are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for decisions. Procedurally, Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is likely that this practice is still valid for me to give a procedural warning first, and then you will allow me two minutes and as long as I have time left to explain, so I will follow this practice, which is only yours. In the Lipa Group, we predict obstruction in voting on the remaining decisions of this meeting on corruption, customerism and everything else. Now I believe I can explain. As lightly as this meeting was set up, at which more or less dialogue was held between Mr Grims and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is said that you have talked to yourself more or less, so the amendments to the proposed decisions were so lenient. We have adopted an amendment that you cannot believe who his candidate was - the government coalition of this country or the strongest coalition party. And you know what he's saying, you know what he's telling this government that's fighting corruption to explore the possibilities. All I care about is why you haven't already proposed an amendment to investigate whether this government could be connected to alleged corruption and customerism in our country. The results would likely take as long as the results for the introduction of the financial police will last. Once again, in the developed European countries chaired by the Council of Europe, Janez Janša, governments and not the opposition are falling when it comes to corruption, customerism and money laundering. You made this session for yourself for your own promotion, but a little too fast. And when we talk about corruption and customerism and money laundering, of any of you heroes, brave fighters of reference to the previous government, I have not heard the word Paloma, the Slovenian steel industry and any other company, such as the General Sailing in Primorska. Is everything clear there, or what? But these conclusions do not apply to them, and they will also be examined by the financial police, whether everything was right or wrong. Whether white or red in power, corruption in this country brings nothing to anyone. We are fortunate in the Lip Group that we were not part of any government. And you're just as greased with butter or corruption and clientelism as the ones you read it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u301	Thank you. You have heard, the Lipa Group will obstruct the vote on the conclusions. An explanation, Mr. Weber. Procedural or explanatory? Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, in my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. I would like to explain my vote in these conclusions and draw attention to the fact that today's debate is indeed incredibly high in seriousness, for 10 conclusions, say, speak of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within 30 days to make the findings known to the National Assembly and then propose to adopt any necessary laws no later than 60 days. May I remind you that a flag falls on 15 July regarding the regular functioning of the National Assembly. Only so much in mind about all these solutions offered by the SDS. However, I would like to draw further attention to points 6 and 7 that there will be no mistake in voting on these conclusions in order to examine other cases. I would like to draw attention to another example, namely the company or company FMR from Idria, for which the Capital Company found in 2003 that the value of the shares is five times higher than the book value of those shares. In December 2007, under this government, the same Capital Company found that it would sell FMR shares for up to two thirds of its book value. So for eight times less value, it damaged some million Euros of shareholders of this company. It was a better offer. Mr Toplak knew about this, the Government knew about it, and, of course, I expect that responsibility will also be established in accordance with the seventh decision. I'm not going to object to these conclusions myself. However, I would like to point out that this case would not remain unnoticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u303	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. A full vote on the conclusions is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I'm closing that point. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. This is in line with the conclusion on the amendment of the decision to re-vote the decision on the amendment and the amendment of the decision on the number of seats of business groups in the working bodies of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and on the determination of the business groups belonging to them as presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the national assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants of the request, Mr Miran Potrč, to present the position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The decision of the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Decision to supplement the composition of the Constitutional Commission was proposed because we believe that the proposal is prepared incorrectly and against the rules applicable in the National Labour Council. One of the criteria for the creation of working bodies is also to take into account the size of the parliamentary group and the fact that all parliamentary groups have about the same share in working bodies. By expanding the membership of the Slovenian National Party, the Slovenian National Party would have a far-reaching excess share. We at the College suggested that if he wished to have a member in the Constitutional Commission, we would have no objection and then withdraw one of his members from another working body. The President of the National Assembly found that this would be correct, as we have done so so so far, but later decided that even if the Slovenian National Party opposed, their proposal was acceptable. I do not think it is, and it shows that, although it is only four months before the end of this House, to respect the same rules for all and therefore to reject this proposal, then the Slovenian National Party should decide whether or not to supplement the Constitutional Commission and where else to withdraw one of its members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-03-SDZ4-Izredna-37.ana.u305	Thank you. In doing so, I inform you that Mr Jožef Školč has announced, on behalf of the Group of Members, an obstruction in voting at this point. There is no discussion or explanation for the vote following the Rules of Procedure on the re-voting of the decision adopted by the College. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 42, for 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I thank you for your patience and good night, even though the night will be short.
